Title : All the Young Dudes
Author: LeeDoggie
Description: <p>太喜歡這篇，為了方便自己閱讀用chat gpt翻完，中英夾雜，AI亂翻的部分可以直接看原文。未授權，侵刪。<br />ALL RIGHTS BELONGS TO MsKingBean89, It's a masterpiece and has made up for my feeling of loss in the past.<br />前92章有WforZizi的授權翻譯，感謝您的翻譯讓我可以接觸到這部作品。<br />URL:  https://archiveofourown.org/works/23558521?view_full_work=true</p><p>Spotify playlist:<br />https://open.spotify.com/user/htl2006/playlist/3z2NbLq2IVGG0NICBqsN2D?si=Liyl_JKJSx2RUqks3p50kg</p>




PrefaceAll the Young Dudes
Posted originally on the Archive of Our Own at http://archiveofourown.org/works/58003051.

Rating:MatureArchive Warning:No Archive Warnings ApplyCategory:M/MFandom:Harry Potter - J. K. RowlingRelationships:Sirius Black/Remus Lupin, James Potter/Lily Evans PotterCharacters:Remus Lupin, Sirius Black, James Potter, Lily Evans Potter, Peter PettigrewAdditional Tags:Marauders Era (Harry Potter), MaraudersLanguage:中文-普通话 國語Series:Part 1 of All the Young DudesStats:Published: 2024-08-08 Completed: 2024-08-09 Words: 767,540 Chapters: 19/19All the Young Dudesby LeeDoggieSummary

太喜歡這篇，為了方便自己閱讀用chat gpt翻完，中英夾雜，AI亂翻的部分可以直接看原文。未授權，侵刪。
ALL RIGHTS BELONGS TO MsKingBean89, It's a masterpiece and has made up for my feeling of loss in the past.
前92章有WforZizi的授權翻譯，感謝您的翻譯讓我可以接觸到這部作品。
URL: https://archiveofourown.org/works/23558521?view_full_work=true

Spotify playlist:
https://open.spotify.com/user/htl2006/playlist/3z2NbLq2IVGG0NICBqsN2D?si=Liyl_JKJSx2RUqks3p50kg

A translation of All the Young Dudes by MsKingBean89Chapter 95~ 100Chapter Summary

95. Summer 1976 (part three: Peace Talks) (2017-10-01)
96. Sixth Year: September (2017-10-09)
97. Sixth Year: October (2017-10-10)
98. Sixth Year: Halloween (2017-10-10)
99. Sixth Year: Parties and Pustules (2017-10-12)
100. Sixth Year: Boundaries (2017-10-13)

Chapter 95: Summer 1976 (part three: Peace Talks)

It wasn't easy for Remus to keep Sirius at a distance while he was staying with the Potters. The house was big enough, but that didn’t matter much in a family home; something Remus was only just learning. Mrs. Potter gave Remus his space during the first couple of days, but after that, it was clear that she had no idea of the rift between the marauders, and expected the three boys to spend all of their time together as usual.

Remus很難在Potter家時與Sirius保持距離。這房子足夠大，但在一個家庭中這並不重要；這是Remus剛剛學會的一件事。Potter夫人在最初的幾天里給了Remus一些空間，但之後她顯然不知道四個人之間的裂痕，期望三個男孩像往常一樣一直在一起。

As much as they were each uncomfortable with this arrangement, for their own reasons, none of them wanted to disappoint or worry Euphemia. So an uneasy truce was struck, and Remus spent most of his time reading his book, sitting close enough to James and Sirius that it did not look suspicious.

Remus, Sirius, 和 James各自都對這種安排感到不舒服，出於自己的原因，但他們都不想讓Euphemia失望或擔心。因此，達成了一個不安的休戰協議，Remus大部分時間都在閱讀他的書，坐在James和Sirius旁邊，這樣看起來不會可疑。

Grant had said that it wouldn't always hurt - and though he hadn’t had the full facts of the situation, Remus was starting to believe him. He still felt very angry towards Sirius - but it hurt less, as the final weeks of summer drained away in a flood of sunshine and blue skies. He was able, at least, to be civil, and Sirius seemed grateful. At any rate, he had stopped trying to corner Remus into a conversation every five minutes.

Grant曾說這不會一直痛——儘管他並不知道全部情況，Remus開始相信他。他仍然對Sirius感到非常生氣——但隨著夏季最後幾周在陽光和藍天中流逝，這種痛苦減少了。至少，他能夠保持禮貌，而Sirius似乎感激。不管怎樣，Sirius已經不再每五分鐘就試圖把Remus拉進談話中。

Besides, after his conversation with Moody, Remus had other things occupying his mind. For years now, he had been labouring under the assumption that Greyback did not know him, that he would have the element of surprise in his corner. But now it seemed that Greyback might be looking for him, too. He would not tell the marauders this, not until he knew more. No use getting them worried; if Moody said that Hogwarts was safe, then Remus was inclined to believe him for now. The Potters clearly trusted him, and that would have to be enough. What was more; he knew Ferox.

此外，與Moody談話後，Remus心中還有其他事情。多年来，他一直以為Greyback不認識他，他會有出其不意的優勢。但現在似乎Greyback也在找他。他不會告訴四個人這件事，直到他了解更多。沒有必要讓他們擔心；如果Moody說霍格沃茲是安全的，那麼Remus現在傾向於相信他。Potter一家顯然信任他，這必須足夠。此外，他還認識Ferox。

Remus had had Ferox on his mind too. Once again, his old professor seemed like the safest option when it came to asking questions. He understood Remus’s need to know more - even if he didn't know why, exactly. And Remus didn’t want to bother Mr. Potter, not when he seemed to have the weight of the world on his shoulders already. He would send an owl to Ferox as soon as he was back at school - and as soon as the dust had settled on this recent revelation.

Remus心中也一直記掛著Ferox。再一次，他的老教授似乎是提問的最安全選擇。他理解Remus需要知道更多——即使他不知道確切原因。而且Remus不想打擾Potter先生，因為他似乎已經肩負著世界的重擔。他會在回到學校後馬上給Ferox寄一隻貓頭鷹信——在最近的這個揭露塵埃落定後。

In the meantime, Peter came over every day, and they went out on their brooms, or else lounged about on the lawn, smoking, listening to Sirius’s record player and sunbathing. Remus turned a warm hazelnut brown all over, which made him look healthier than he ever had, and his hair bleached a shade fairer.

與此同時，Peter每天都過來，他們要麼出去騎掃帚，要麼就在草坪上閒逛，抽煙，聽Sirius的唱機，晒太陽。Remus曬成了一種溫暖的榛子棕色，這使他看起來比以往更健康，他的頭髮也漂白了一些。

On the penultimate day of the holidays, they were doing just this - it was too hot to move, and all four of them were lying on their backs baking in the sun. Remus had positioned himself a little further away from the others, just to show Sirius that he was not off the hook. (Also because Sirius had an annoying habit of taking his shirt off, and Remus was trying not to notice.)

在假期倒數第二天，他們正在做這些事情——天氣太熱了，無法動彈，四個人都仰躺在陽光下曬著。Remus故意讓自己離其他人遠一點，以示意Sirius他還沒被原諒。（也因為Sirius有個惱人的習慣，喜歡脫掉襯衫，而Remus試圖不去注意。）

“So tell me again,” Peter yawned up at the sun, arms behind his head, “What was the Knight Bus like? I’ve always wanted to go on it.”

“再告訴我一次，”Peter仰望著太陽，打著哈欠，雙臂放在腦後，“Knight Bus是什麼樣子的？我一直想坐它。”

“Dream big, Petey.” Sirius drawled.

“夢想大些，Petey。”Sirius慢吞吞地說。

“It wasn’t that great,” James replied, “Can’t wait until we can all apparate - lessons start in January.”

“其實沒那麼好，”James回答，“等不及我們都能幻影移形了——課程在一月開始。”

“I’m going to be rubbish at it.” Peter said, forlorn, “Dezzie has been reading the theory books, I can’t get my head around it.”

“我肯定會很糟糕。”Peter沮喪地說，“Dezzie一直在讀理論書，我搞不懂。”

“Well it's better than relying on that stupid bus.” James removed his glasses and rubbed his eyes, “It’s fine for magical locations, but the driver kept getting lost on the way to St Edmund’s.”

“總比依賴那愚蠢的巴士好。”James摘下眼鏡，揉了揉眼睛，“對於魔法地點還好，但司機在去St Edmund’s的路上一直迷路。”

Remus’s stomach flipped. He really, really hated the idea that James and Sirius had been there. He felt as though they’d seen some private part of him he would have preferred to keep hidden. Like the first time he’d transformed in front of them.

Remus的胃翻騰了。他真的，真的討厭James和Sirius去過那裡的想法。他覺得他們好像看到了他想要隱藏的一些私人部分。就像他第一次在他們面前變形時一樣。

“I can’t believe I missed that too.” Peter sighed. “Were there loads of muggles? What was it like?”

“我真不敢相信我也錯過了。”Peter嘆道。“有很多麻瓜嗎？那是什麼樣子的？”

“C’mon Pete,” James said, “That’s Moony’s home you’re talking about.”

“拜託，Pete，”James說，“那是Moony的家。”

“It’s fine.” Remus said.

“沒事。”Remus說。

“I bet it's great, living with loads of other people your age,” James said, encouragingly. It was James’s greatest sorrow that he had grown up an only child.

“我打賭和很多同齡人一起住很棒，”James鼓勵地說。他最大的遺憾就是他是獨生子。

“It’s…” Remus looked for the right word. “It’s noisy. Did you go inside?”

“那是……”Remus找著合適的詞。“很吵。你們進去了嗎？”

“Padfoot did, crawled under a hole in the back fence.”

“Padfoot進去了，從後院的洞爬進去的。”

“Didn’t go in the building, though.” Sirius said, rolling onto his front. The muscles in his back moved smoothly under his skin and Remus had to fight not to bite his lip. “Some bitch started throwing stones at me.”

“但沒進建築物。”Sirius說，翻身趴下。他背部的肌肉在皮膚下平滑地移動，Remus不得不忍住不咬嘴唇。“有個婊子開始向我扔石頭。”

“Matron.” Remus confirmed.

“宿舍管理員。”Remus確認。

“Must’ve been.” Sirius nodded, obviously pleased at the attention, “If she treats people the way she treats dogs then I don’t blame you for running away.”

“應該是。”Sirius點點頭，顯然對注意力很滿意，“如果她對待人就像對待狗一樣，我不怪你跑掉。”

“It wasn't really about her.” Remus said, pointedly.

“這不全是因為她。”Remus指責地說。

“It’s lucky Prongs and Padfoot found you though, eh Moony?” Peter smiled, blissfully ignorant, “Otherwise you’d be lost in muggle London!”

“幸好Prongs和Padfoot找到了你，對吧，Moony？”Peter笑著說，幸福地無知，“不然你會迷失在麻瓜的倫敦！”

“I wasn’t lost.” Remus said, icily, putting his book down finally. “I was with a friend.”

“我沒有迷路。”Remus冷冷地說，終於把書放下。“我和一個朋友在一起。”

“But James said--”

“但James說——”

“I said he was in a squat, Pete, not alone. He was with this muggle chap - sorry Remus, I’ve forgotten his name..?”

“我說他在一個臨時住處，Pete，不是獨自一人。他和這個麻瓜在一起——對不起Remus，我忘了他的名字..？”

“He didn't tell us his name.” Sirius said, out of nowhere. Remus sat up and squinted at him. Sirius was staring at him in a strange way, but it only brought Remus’s hackles up.

“他沒告訴我們他的名字。”Sirius突然說。Remus坐起來，瞇著眼看著他。Sirius用奇怪的眼神盯著他，但這只讓Remus更加警覺。

“No.” He replied, “I didn't.” He got to his feet. “I’m going in, it's too hot.”

“沒有。”他回答，“我沒說。”他站了起來。“我要進去了，太熱了。”

James, who seemed to have grasped that the conversation had taken an unpleasant turn, got up too.

James，似乎明白談話變得不愉快，也站了起來。

“Yeah, you’re right Moony. Shall we all go in for a bit? Have a drink and do that washing up mum wanted sorting. She’ll be back soon.”

“對，你說得對，Moony。我們都進去一會兒吧？喝點東西，做媽媽想讓我們做的洗碗。她很快就會回來。”

Mrs Potter had left for the afternoon on an errand, and Mr Potter was at work. Gully was in the house somewhere, of course, but he never made his presence known unless summoned. The boys were pretty much alone.

Potter夫人下午出去辦事了，Potter先生在上班。Gully當然在房子的某個地方，但除非被召喚，否則他從不露面。男孩們幾乎是獨自一人。

“I’ll go home if you’re going to do chores,” Peter grumbled, struggling to his own feet, “I can do housework at mine.”

“如果你們要做家務，我就回家，”Peter抱怨道，艱難地站起來，“我可以在自己家做家務。”

“Cheer up Wormy,” James slapped him on his sweaty shoulder, “There’re jam tarts in the kitchen, you can have the marmalade one if you want.”

“高興點Wormy，”James拍了拍他汗津津的肩膀，“廚房裡有果醬塔，如果你想要可以吃橘子醬的那個。”

The four of them strolled back across the crisp brittle lawn to the house, stopping at the shed so that Sirius and James could put their brooms away first. Pete went straight in for his tart, and Remus hung back on the patio, between them all, feeling very put out and agitated. He sat on the low brick wall again and listened to Sirius and James’s cheerful banter from inside the shed.

他們四個人漫步穿過乾脆的草坪回到房子，先在棚子停下，讓Sirius和James把掃帚收好。Peter直接進去拿他的塔，而Remus留在露台上，在他們之間，感到非常煩躁和不安。他再次坐在低矮的磚牆上，聽著棚子裡Sirius和James愉快的玩笑。

“I ought to polish the handle again before I pack it away…”

“在收起來之前我應該再擦一次把手……”

“Bloody hell Prongs, you polish it twice a day already.”

“該死的Prongs，你已經一天擦兩次了。”

“It’s called looking after your equipment, Black.”

“這叫保養你的裝備，Black。”

“I call it sexual frustration.”

“我叫它性挫折。”

“Piss off!”

“滾開！”

There was a scuffle, and Remus could hear Sirius’s gleeful cackling as the two boys wrestled. “Wait ‘til we’re back at school and I can curse your bollocks off!” James laughed,

有一陣爭鬥，Remus能聽到Sirius愉快的咯咯笑聲，兩個男孩摔跤。“等我們回到學校，我就能把你的睾丸詛咒掉！”James笑道，

“Don’t you dare - some of us use our bollocks!”

“你敢——我們有些人還用睾丸呢！”

“You tosser! I ought to - oh shit, watch out…”

“你這混蛋！我應該——哦，該死，小心……”

“Ah!” Sirius cried, “Bugger! That hurt.”

“啊！”Sirius喊道，“該死！好痛。”

They both staggered back out into the daylight, Sirius clutching his hand.

他們都搖搖晃晃地走回陽光下，Sirius捂著他的手。

“What did you do?” James asked, peering over. He paled, upon seeing Sirius’s hand, and backed away, “Sorry mate, you know how I am with blood…”

“你做了什麼？”James問道，探身過來。一看到Sirius的手，他就臉色蒼白，退後了一步，“對不起，老兄，你知道我對血有多敏感……”

“Eurgh, it’s really bleeding, too…”

“噁，它真的在流血……”

“Oi, get away from me!”

“喂，離我遠點！”

“What shall I do? Wait ‘til your mum gets home?”

“我該怎麼辦？等你媽媽回來？”

“No choice - I dunno any healing spells...”

“別無選擇——我不懂任何治療咒語……”

“Ow, it bloody hurts…”

“啊，好痛……”

“Oh, for god’s sake,” Remus stood up, squinting. “Let me see.” 「哦，天啊，」Remus站起來，瞇著眼。「讓我看看。」

Sirius and James both turned to look at him. Sirius’s eyes flickered to James, then back to Remus, before he walked over, hand outstretched. The cut was very deep, blood running in rivulets down Sirius’s long white wrists. Sirius和James都轉頭看著他。Sirius的眼睛在James和Remus之間閃爍，然後他走過來，伸出手。傷口很深，血沿著Sirius長長的白皙手腕流下。

Remus swallowed, “You need to clean that, it’ll get infected… hang on, I’ve got some stuff in my trunk.” Remus吞了吞口水，「你需要清理一下，否則會感染……等一下，我的箱子裡有些東西。」

He led Sirius through the kitchen, upstairs to the first floor bathroom and turned on the cold tap. He had some TCP in his trunk leftover from St Edmund’s, where he often had to look after his own scrapes when Madam Pomfrey wasn’t around. He brought it through, along with some cotton balls and gauze. 他帶著Sirius穿過廚房，上樓到一樓的浴室，打開冷水龍頭。他的箱子裡有一些TCP，這是從St Edmund’s留下來的，那裡他經常需要在Pomfrey夫人不在時自己處理擦傷。他帶了一些棉球和紗布過來。

“Come here.” He said, sitting on the edge if the bathtub and motioning that Sirius sit on the closed toilet seat. He obeyed, still holding his hand out warily. 「過來。」他說，坐在浴缸邊上，示意Sirius坐在蓋好的馬桶上。Sirius順從地坐下，依然小心翼翼地伸出手。

It was much cooler, in the bathroom, reassuringly sterile, like the hospital wing. Remus found that very calming. Sirius was placid and docile, trusting Remus completely with watchful eyes, like a pet. 浴室裡涼快多了，令人安心的無菌環境，像醫院病房。Remus覺得這非常平靜。Sirius安靜且溫順，完全信任Remus，目光警惕，像寵物一樣。

“What’s that?” He asked as Remus tipped some disinfectant onto the cotton. 「那是什麼？」當Remus把消毒液倒在棉球上時，他問道。

“TCP.” He said, “It’ll clean the wound.” 「TCP。」他說，「它會清潔傷口。」

“Is it muggle stuff?” 「是麻瓜的東西嗎？」

“I’m sure it will work just the same,” Remus raised an eyebrow. He took Sirius’s wrist, gripping it more roughly than he really needed to. His skin was hot from the sun. Remus could feel his pulse. “It’s going to sting.” He said, as he pressed down. Sirius flinched, and Remus was reminded of the time after Christmas they’d spent in the Potter’s bathroom, piercing Sirius’s ear. 「我相信它一樣有效，」Remus挑起一邊眉毛。他抓住Sirius的手腕，比實際需要的更粗暴。他的皮膚因陽光變得炙熱。Remus能感覺到他的脈搏。「這會刺痛，」他說，按了下去。Sirius顫抖了一下，Remus想起了聖誕節後他們在Potter家的浴室裡，給Sirius穿耳洞的情景。

“Will it hurt?” Sirius panicked at the last minute, as Remus was poised with the pin. 「會痛嗎？」當Remus拿著針準備時，Sirius在最後一刻驚慌地問道。

“Well we’ve numbed it a bit, but yeah, probably.” Remus said, matter-of-factly. “Don’t be such a girl.” 「我們已經稍微麻醉了一點，但可能會的。」Remus不以為然地說。「別這麼娘。」

“Be gentle with me, Moony!” 「對我溫柔點，Moony！」

They had both laughed, and Remus shook him fondly; 他們都笑了，Remus滿懷深情地搖了搖他；

“Stay still you big wuss.” 「別動，你這大膽小鬼。」

He finished cleaning the wound and then wrapped it in gauze, taping it neatly. 他清理完傷口後，用紗布包紮好，貼得整整齊齊。

“Probably throb a bit.” He explained. “Meant to be tight. Stops the bleeding.” 「可能會有點痛。」他解釋道。「要緊一點。止血。」

“Thanks, Moony.” 「謝謝，Moony。」

“Any time.” Remus went to get up, placing both hands on the cold porcelain of the tub. Sirius suddenly reached out and touched his arm. 「隨時。」Remus準備起身，雙手放在浴缸冷冰冰的瓷上。Sirius突然伸手碰了碰他的手臂。

“I’m sorry.” 「對不起。」

“I know.” Remus replied. “You’ve said.” 「我知道。」Remus回答。「你已經說了。」

“What I did…” Sirius licked his lips nervously, still grasping Remus’s arm as if that was the only thing keeping him in place. 「我做的……」Sirius緊張地舔了舔嘴唇，仍然抓著Remus的手臂，仿佛那是唯一能讓他穩住的東西。

“Don’t.” Remus frowned, his resolve weakening. 「別。」Remus皺起眉頭，他的決心開始動搖。

“But we ought to talk--” 「但我們應該談談——」

“We can’t.” Remus said, simply. “I can’t, anyway. There are no words for what you did to me.” 「我們不能。」Remus簡單地說。「反正我不能。對你做的事，我無言以對。」

“No.” Sirius hung his head. “You’re right.” He let go, but Remus didn’t walk away, though he knew he ought to. Sirius ran his uninjured hand through his hair in frustration. “I’m such an idiot.” He said. 「不。」Sirius低下頭。「你說得對。」他放開了，但Remus沒有走開，儘管他知道自己應該這麼做。Sirius懊惱地用未受傷的手撥了撥頭髮。「我真是個白痴。」他說。

Remus did not refute this. Sirius continued. “It was a really good year, wasn’t it, fifth year? Spending the moons together, and the parties… then I went and ballsed it all up.” Remus沒有反駁。Sirius繼續說。「那年真的很棒，不是嗎？第五年？一起度過月圓之夜，還有聚會……然後我把一切搞砸了。」

“Well.” Remus relented. “I made some mistakes too. I made things… things were different, after my birthday.” 「嗯。」Remus鬆口了。「我也犯了一些錯誤。我使事情……事情在我生日後變得不同。」

“What? Moony, no!” Sirius’s eyes widened. He looked so earnest and sincere that Remus wanted to forgive everything in an instant. “I know I wasn’t… you didn’t do anything wrong. That, what happened on your birthday, it was…” 「什麼？Moony，不！」Sirius瞪大了眼睛。他看起來如此真誠和誠懇，以至於Remus想立刻原諒一切。「我知道我不是……你沒有做錯任何事。那，發生在你生日的事情，是……」

Remus held his breath while Sirius searched for the word. “...it was really brave.” Sirius finished. Remus屏住呼吸，等待Sirius找詞。「……那真的很勇敢。」Sirius說完。

Remus blinked. Brave?! What on earth was that supposed to mean? Sirius saw his reaction, and tried to cover his tracks, Remus眨了眨眼。勇敢？！那到底是什麼意思？Sirius看到他的反應，試圖掩飾，

“I just mean that you shouldn't worry about it. It didn’t… that didn’t change anything, ok?” 「我只是想說你不應該為此擔心。那並沒有……那並沒有改變任何事情，好嗎？」

“Ok.” Remus looked down, then – feeling braver, looked up again. “We never talked about that.” 「好吧。」Remus低下頭，然後——感覺更勇敢了，再次抬起頭。「我們從未談過那件事。」

“You’re my best friend, Remus.” 「你是我最好的朋友，Remus。」

“Sirius, please….” 「Sirius，拜託……」

“And I know what I did. There aren’t words, no, so I’ll shut up and I’ll… I’ll do actions, instead, ok? I’ll prove I’m sorry, every day. I swear, I’ll never do another stupid thing without thinking again.” 「我知道我做了什麼。無言以對，所以我會閉嘴，我會……我會用行動代替，好嗎？我每天都會證明我很抱歉。我發誓，我再也不會在不經思考的情況下做愚蠢的事。」

Remus gave him a small smile, Remus對他微微一笑，

“Come on.” 「來吧。」

Sirius smiled too, looking relieved. Sirius也笑了，顯得鬆了一口氣。

“Yeah, ok, maybe a bit ambitious. I’ll never do anything to hurt any one of my friends, ever again, how’s that?” 「是的，好吧，也許有點雄心壯志。我再也不會做任何傷害我朋友的事，這樣如何？」

Remus breathed in deeply. Forgiveness would be such a blessed relief. Remus深吸一口氣。原諒真是莫大的安慰。

“It’s a start.” 「這是一個開始。」

 

 Chapter 96: Sixth Year: September

第96章：第六年：九月

 

Wednesday 1st September 1976
1976年9月1日，星期三

“This is the year, lads. This is the year it finally happens. Six years of waiting and it all pays off.”
“今年就是那一年，伙计们。今年终于会发生。六年的等待，全都值得了。”

“You can’t be talking about what I think you’re talking about,” Remus raised an eyebrow over to top of his book.
“你不会在说我想的那个吧，”雷穆斯抬起一只眉毛看着他的书。

“Oh yes,” James was beaming like a drunkard, “Lily Evans is definitely going to realise she’s mad about me. I can feel it.”
“哦，对，”詹姆斯像醉汉一样笑得灿烂，“莉莉·埃文斯一定会意识到她对我有多疯狂。我能感觉到。”

“Are you sure, though?” Sirius smirked, “You’ve had these feelings before.”
“你确定吗？”小天狼星笑道，“你以前也有过这样的感觉。”

“I have,” James nodded, respectfully, “You’re quite right, Padfoot. But something is different this time. I can practically taste it. Love is very much in the air.”
“确实有过，”詹姆斯点了点头，表示尊重，“你说得对，皮足。但这次有些不同。我几乎能感受到。爱情弥漫在空气中。”

“Or lust,” Remus muttered, flipping his page over, “You’re probably just picking up on the raging hormones coming off these idiots.” He nodded at Sirius and Peter, who both kept glancing out of the train window, looking for their respective girlfriends.
“或者是欲望，”雷穆斯嘀咕道，翻过一页，“你可能只是感受到这些傻子身上激动的荷尔蒙。”他点了点小天狼星和彼得，两人都不停地瞟向火车窗外，寻找各自的女朋友。

“Who’re you calling an idiot, Moony?” Sirius retorted, “I can’t help it if I drive women wild with desire.”
“谁在叫傻子，月亮？”小天狼星反驳道，“如果我让女人因欲望疯狂，我也没办法。”

“SIRIUS BLOODY BLACK, I COULD KILL YOU!” Mary’s furious shriek could have shattered glass. Sirius practically leapt two feet off his seat.
“小天狼星该死的布莱克，我真想杀了你！”玛丽愤怒的尖叫声几乎能震碎玻璃。小天狼星几乎从座位上跳了起来。

Remus gave a satisfied nod.
雷穆斯满意地点了点头。

“Wild with something, anyway.”
“反正是被什么东西弄得很疯狂。”

James guffawed, nearly choking on the Bertie Botts every flavour bean he had been chewing.
詹姆斯哈哈大笑，差点呛到他咀嚼的博提·波特百味豆。

No one was happier about Remus and Sirius’s reconciliation than James. He didn’t say anything directly, but as soon as he recognised that his two best friends were no longer keeping each other at arm's length, he was grinning from ear to ear, back to his usual mischievous self. And therefore,
没有人比詹姆斯对雷穆斯和小天狼星和解更开心。他没有直接说什么，但一旦他意识到他最好的两个朋友不再互相保持距离，他就从耳到耳地笑了回去，恢复了他一贯的调皮。因此，
back to sighing over Lily Evans.
重新开始对莉莉·埃文斯叹气。

Lily entered the carriage at this point, just behind Mary who had burst in like a whirlwind. Lily smiled at Remus and took the spare seat beside him, he smiled back and they settled in to watch the show.
莉莉在此时进入了车厢，紧跟着像旋风般闯入的玛丽。莉莉对雷穆斯微笑，坐在他旁边的空位上，他也回以微笑，他们就这样安顿下来，准备观看接下来的戏码。

“What have I done?!” Sirius asked, affronted.
“我做了什么？！”小天狼星不满地问。

“You really don’t know, do you?!” Mary stood with her hands on her hips, a look of disgust on her face. She looked spectacular when she was angry, her gold hoop earrings jangled, her kohl rimmed eyes were wide and fiery. “Diagon Alley?!” She stamped her foot.
“你真的不知道吗？！”玛丽双手叉腰，脸上露出厌恶的表情。她生气的时候看起来很壮观，她的金色圆环耳环叮当作响，她的眼睛被眼线笔勾勒得又大又炯炯有神。“对角巷？！”她跺了跺脚。

Sirius’s eyes widened.
小天狼星的眼睛瞪大了。

“Bugger.”
“该死。”

“Fuck you, Black!” Mary turned and stormed back out. Sirius scrambled up to follow her down the corridor, just as the train started moving,
“去你的，布莱克！”玛丽转身愤怒地离开了。小天狼星急忙跟在她身后走下走廊，火车刚开始动起来时，

“Oi, Mary, wait! I’m sorry..!”
“喂，玛丽，等一下！对不起..！”

Remus turned to Lily,
雷穆斯转向莉莉，

“What did he do?”
“他做了什么？”

“Forgot her birthday,” Lily grinned, “Apparently they had a plan to meet in Diagon Alley and she waited for two hours…”
“忘记了她的生日，”莉莉笑着说，“显然他们计划在对角巷见面，她等了两个小时……”

“Oh bollocks,” James slapped his forehead, “I was supposed to remind him…”
“真是糟糕，”詹姆斯拍了拍额头，“我本该提醒他的……”

“You’re as bad as each other,” Lily snorted. “Godric save the girls stupid enough to marry any of you.”
“你们一个样，”莉莉哼了一声。“戈德里克保佑那些愚蠢到愿意嫁给你们任何一个的女孩。”

“Has anyone seen Desdemona?” Peter asked, distractedly. Lily shook her head and the boys shrugged. Peter got up, “I’ll see you lot later…” and wandered out of the carriage.
“有人见过德斯德蒙娜吗？”彼得分心地问。莉莉摇了摇头，其他男孩也耸了耸肩。彼得站了起来，“我晚点见你们……”然后走出了车厢。

“Bloody hell.” James said, “What’s happened to the marauders?”
“真是见鬼了。”詹姆斯说，“麻瓜们怎么了？”

“Oi, I’m here,” Remus said, returning to his book.
“喂，我在这里，”雷穆斯说，继续看他的书。

“My only true friend!” James smiled, “You’ll never leave me for a girl, will you, Moony?”
“我唯一的真正朋友！”詹姆斯笑道，“你不会为了一个女孩抛弃我，对吧，月亮？”

“No chance,” Remus replied, turning the page again.
“没有可能，”雷穆斯回答道，又翻了一页。

“Wait,” Lily yelped, grabbing Remus’s shoulder, “ That’s why they call you Moony?!
“等等，”莉莉惊呼，抓住雷穆斯的肩膀，“这就是他们叫你月亮的原因？！”

Remus gave her a sideways grin and nodded very slightly. Lily looked amazed,
雷穆斯侧身对她笑了笑，微微点了点头。莉莉看起来很惊讶，

“I can’t believe I didn’t work it out sooner!”
“我真不敢相信我没早点弄明白！”

“Hang on,” James frowned, “Worked what out? It's just an in joke, right, Remus? Some stupid thing we came up with as kids, no big secret or any-”
“等等，”詹姆斯皱起眉头，“弄明白了什么？这只是个内部笑话，对吧，雷穆斯？我们小时候想出来的傻事，没有什么大秘密或者任何-”

“Prongs,” Remus shook his head, laughing, “It’s fine; she knows.”
“鹿角，”雷穆斯摇了摇头，笑着说，“没关系，她知道了。”

James’ hazel eyes widened, and he stared at them both. Lily giggled, her eyes teasing and Remus suddenly saw exactly why she drove James so crazy.
詹姆斯的褐色眼睛瞪大了，他盯着他们俩。莉莉咯咯笑了，她的眼睛充满挑逗，雷穆斯突然明白了她为什么让詹姆斯如此疯狂。

“Prongs,” Remus shook his head, laughing, “It’s fine; she knows.”
“詹姆斯，”雷穆斯摇头笑道，“没事的，她知道了。”

James’ hazel eyes widened, and he stared at them both. Lily giggled, her eyes teasing and Remus suddenly saw exactly why she drove James so crazy.
詹姆斯的褐色眼睛瞪大了，他盯着他们俩。莉莉咯咯笑着，眼神调皮，雷穆斯突然明白了她为什么让詹姆斯如此疯狂。

“You’re an idiot, Potter. But at least you can keep a secret.”
“你是个傻子，波特。不过至少你能保守秘密。”

“Well, of course,” James straightened his back and puffed out his chest, “We’d all do anything for Moony.”
“当然了，”詹姆斯挺直了背脊，挺起了胸膛，“我们都会为月亮做任何事。”

Remus was really quite touched by that, and had to raise his book to hide his face. He hoped Lily knew that James was being quite honest, and not just showing off for her approval. The compartment door slid open and Marlene entered. She’d had her hair cut into a neat bob over the summer, like Mia Farrow. It was very becoming. She smiled and nodded at her friends, sitting down next to James.
雷穆斯真的很感动，他不得不抬起书本遮住脸。他希望莉莉知道詹姆斯是非常诚恳的，而不仅仅是为了赢得她的赞许。隔间的门滑开了，玛琳娜走了进来。她的头发在暑假剪成了整齐的波波头，像米亚·法罗一样，非常好看。她笑着对朋友们点头，坐在了詹姆斯旁边。

“Sirius and Mary are having a proper screaming match out there, it's mental.” She looked at Lily, then James, then Remus, “What have I missed?”
“西里斯和玛丽在外面大吵特吵，真是疯狂。”她看了看莉莉，然后是詹姆斯，再到雷穆斯，“我错过了什么？”

Mary forgave Sirius by the time they reached Hogwarts, on the promise that he would take her for a day in Hogsmeade to make up for it. Remus was pleased - he could honestly, truly say that, without bitterness. He felt that Sirius had drawn a line under their kiss, back in the Potter’s bathroom, and it was up to him, Remus, to honour and respect that line.
玛丽在他们到达霍格沃茨时原谅了西里斯，条件是他要带她去霍格梅德度过一天以弥补。雷穆斯对此感到高兴——他可以真心诚意地这样说，没有一丝苦涩。他觉得西里斯在波特家浴室里亲吻后的事情上画了一个句号，接下来就由他，雷穆斯，来尊重和履行这个界限。

Sirius liked Mary. Remus would just have to get over it, that's all. And yes, fine, sometimes Remus fantasised about kissing the hollow of Sirius’s collar bone, about tracing a line from the pit of his throat down to his naval - so what?! That was purely Remus’s problem. He’d have to focus his attentions elsewhere. Perhaps Christopher had become dazzlingly attractive over the summer.
西里斯喜欢玛丽。雷穆斯只能接受这个事实，仅此而已。是的，没错，有时雷穆斯会幻想亲吻西里斯的锁骨凹处，从他喉咙的深处一路抚摸到他的肚脐——那又怎么样？！这纯粹是雷穆斯自己的问题。他得把注意力集中在其他地方。也许克里斯托弗在暑假里变得光彩夺目了。

The feast and the sorting was as magnificent and reassuringly predictable as ever. The friends chatted about their new timetables (Lily was extremely disappointed to find out that Remus had chosen to drop Potions, but he promised to keep giving her a run for her money in Charms), their summers (tactfully avoiding Mary’s birthday) and the looming pressure of NEWTs. All blissfully normal, Remus thought to himself as they finished their puddings and got up, yawning, ready for bed.
宴会和分院仪式一如既往地辉煌和令人放心地可预测。朋友们聊起了他们的新课表（莉莉对雷穆斯选择放弃魔药课感到非常失望，但他承诺在魅力课上继续与她竞争），他们的暑假（巧妙地避开了玛丽的生日）以及即将来临的NEWTS的压力。当他们吃完甜点，打着哈欠准备上床时，雷穆斯对自己说，一切都是如此正常。

“I’m knackered,” James said, stretching, “Early night tonight, eh, Marlene? Practice first thing--”
“我累坏了，”詹姆斯说，伸展了一下，“今晚早点上床，玛琳娜？明早第一节就练习——”

“Oh no you don’t, Potter, you’re coming with me.” Lily said, sternly. He blinked, as if he couldn't believe his luck. She frowned, “We’ve got to lead the first years to bed - have you already forgotten you’re a prefect?!”
“哦，不行，波特，你跟我来。”莉莉严肃地说。他眨了眨眼，好像不敢相信自己的运气。她皱眉，“我们得带一年级的新生去睡觉——你已经忘记你是个学监了吗？！”

“Oh shit, yeah -- I mean bugger-- I mean… whoops.”
“哦糟了，是的——我是说该死——我是说……哎呀。”

Lily tutted, getting up,
莉莉发出“啧”的一声，站了起来，

“We’ll work on your language, too. Come on.” She looked at the others, “Password’s ‘lion heart’.”
“我们也要改进你的语言。走吧。”她看向其他人，“密码是‘狮子心’。”

They thanked her, and went on ahead, leaving James behind, looking confused but grateful.
他们感谢了她，走在前面，留下詹姆斯在后面，面露困惑但感激的神情。

Sirius flung himself into the largest, comfiest couch in the common room, taking up enough space for three people. Mary joined him with an indulgent smile, settling her little feet across his legs. Peter and Marlene started a game of chess on the carpet in front of the fire, and Remus picked up his book. Everything as it should be , he smiled peacefully.
西里斯扑倒在公共休息室里最大、最舒适的沙发上，占据了足够三个人的空间。玛丽带着宠溺的微笑加入了他，将小脚搭在他的腿上。彼得和玛琳娜在火炉前的地毯上开始了一局棋，雷穆斯拿起了他的书。一切如常，他平静地微笑。

A chapter in, Sirius evidently grew bored.
读了一章后，西里斯显然感到无聊。

“When’s our first party, then?” He asked the general room.
“我们第一次聚会是什么时候？”他问道，面向整个房间。

“Our first match is in November,” Marlene said from the floor, her eyes on the game. You couldn’t look away for a moment when you were playing Peter – no one knew how he did it. “You can organise the victory party if you want, Black.”
“我们的第一次比赛在11月，”玛琳娜从地板上说道，目光集中在棋盘上。你在和彼得比赛时不能稍微分心——没人知道他是怎么做到的。“如果你愿意的话，黑，你可以组织胜利派对。”

“That’s aaages away.” Mary purred, “Halloween? Close to your birthday. We can do it after the feast.”
“那还远着呢。”玛丽咕哝道，“万圣节？离你的生日很近。我们可以在宴会后举办。”

Remus’s stomach rumbled at the mention of a feast. He put down his book,
雷穆斯提到宴会时肚子咕咕叫了起来。他放下了书，

“Wonder if there’s time to go down to the kitchens…”
“想知道是否还有时间去厨房……”

“You can’t possibly be hungry,” Sirius arched an eyebrow, “You had three helpings of pudding!”
“你不可能饿了，”西里斯挑了挑眉，“你吃了三份甜点！”

“You’re probably right.” Remus sighed and settled back into the armchair. He shifted sideways, dangling his long legs over the end, kicking off his dirty tennis shoes, and returned to his book. It was Dickens – The Pickwick Papers – and funny, but dry, so that you had to really focus in order to actually find the funny bits. Unfortunately, a full stomach, a long day and a warm fireplace were not conducive to concentration, and Remus soon dozed off.
“你说得对。”雷穆斯叹了口气，靠回扶手椅。他侧身躺下，把长腿悬在椅子的边缘，脱下脏兮兮的网球鞋，然后继续看书。书是狄更斯的《皮克威克外传》，有趣但很干涩，因此你得真正集中注意力才能找到有趣的部分。不幸的是，饱满的肚子、漫长的一天和温暖的火炉不利于集中注意力，雷穆斯很快就打瞌睡了。

It must have been only half an hour that had passed, when Remus snapped awake at the sound of raucous laughter.
只过了半个小时，雷穆斯就被喧闹的笑声惊醒了。

“Stay still Potter!”
“保持安静，波特！”

“I’m trying!”
“我在试着呢！”

Remus blinked a few times, confused and groggy. He stared around to find Peter and Marlene rolling on the hearth rug giggling, Mary standing next to Lily near the portrait hole, where James appeared to be performing a very complicated and vigorous Irish jig. Remus smiled sleepily, and straightened up, his back sore from sleeping all folded up like a deck chair. He turned left, just to get the gristle in his neck to pop, and caught Sirius watching him with a soft, unconscious smile. Remus raised an eyebrow, which seemed to break the spell, and Sirius blinked, then looked away, quickly.
雷穆斯眨了几下眼睛，感到困惑和迷糊。他环顾四周，发现彼得和玛琳娜在壁炉地毯上打滚咯咯笑，玛丽站在莉莉旁边，詹姆斯在画像洞附近表演着非常复杂且激烈的爱尔兰舞蹈。雷穆斯困倦地笑了笑，坐直了身子，背部因折叠睡姿而感到酸痛。他转向左侧，刚好让脖子里的咯吱声响了一下，看到西里斯带着柔和、不自觉的笑容看着他。雷穆斯挑了挑眉，似乎打破了这个魔咒，西里斯眨了眨眼，然后迅速转过身去。

“What happened?” Mary was asking, with hands on her hips,
“发生了什么？”玛丽问道，双手叉腰，

“Silly prat was showing off, as per usual. His hex hit a suit of armour and backfired.” Lily was half laughing, half trying to corner James for long enough to perform the counter jinx.
“这傻小子像往常一样在炫耀。他的诅咒击中了一副盔甲，结果反弹了。”莉莉一边笑，一边试图把詹姆斯逼到角落里，好足够时间施展解除咒语。

“Who were you trying to hex?!” Sirius stood up now, crossing the room.
“你想对谁施咒？！”西里斯这时站了起来，穿过房间。

“Bloody Mulciber,” James said, a comical frown on his face as his legs flew about energetically beneath him,
“该死的穆尔西伯，”詹姆斯说，脸上带着滑稽的皱眉，他的腿在下面活跃地飞舞，

“Petrificus Totalus,” Sirius said, with a yawn. James froze still, and fell to the ground as stiff as a board.
“全身僵直咒，”西里斯打了个哈欠说道。詹姆斯立刻僵硬住，像木板一样摔倒在地。

“Black!” Lily sighed
“黑！”莉莉叹了口气

“What?!” Sirius grinned, “I was only trying to help!”
“怎么了？！”西里斯咧嘴一笑，“我只是想帮忙！”

Remus giggled, still stretching. It was probably time for bed. He got up slowly, as Sirius, Mary and Lily stood over James, arguing over which spell to break first - the dancing one or the petrifying one - and Sirius was in favour of simply levitating him up to bed as he was.
雷穆斯咯咯笑着，仍在伸展。差不多该睡觉了。他慢慢站起身来，看到西里斯、玛丽和莉莉站在詹姆斯身边，争论着先解除哪个咒语——跳舞的还是僵直的——西里斯倾向于直接把他悬浮到床上。

Just as Remus was heading in the direction of the boys dormitory, he caught sight of Christopher. The fifth year boy was coming down the stairs, with a shiny silver prefects badge pinned proudly to his chest. Unfortunately, Christopher had not become incredibly good looking over the summer - in fact, quite the opposite. He had obviously been somewhere very hot and sunny over the summer, and his pale English skin was scorched bright red and peeling grotesquely at his nose.
就在雷穆斯正朝男生宿舍方向走时，他看到了克里斯托弗。这个五年级的男孩正下楼，胸前别着一枚闪亮的银色学监徽章。不幸的是，克里斯托弗在暑假期间并没有变得非常好看——实际上，情况正好相反。他显然在非常炎热和阳光明媚的地方呆过，英俊的肤色被晒得通红，鼻子上的皮肤还在可怕地脱皮。

They stared at each other for a moment, before Christopher looked at his feet, then walked away without a word. Remus felt the sting of guilt. He’d have to apologise, at some point.
他们对视了一会儿，然后克里斯托弗低下头，默默地走开了。雷穆斯感到一阵内疚。他得找时间道个歉。

Wednesday 8th September 1976
1976年9月8日，星期三

“With your OWLs now behind you, and your NEWTs over a year away, do not fall into the trap of believing that this will be an easy year. Your sixth year lays the foundation for your advanced exams, and the work you do will be pivotal in determining the opportunities available to you once you leave school…”
“既然你的OWLs考试已经过去，你的NEWTs考试还在一年之外，不要陷入这种认为这一年会很容易的陷阱。你们的第六年为高级考试打下了基础，你们的努力将在确定你们离校后可用机会方面发挥关键作用……”

Remus fought not to yawn. He might have felt nervous, worried, spurred into action – and he had been. The first time he’d heard this speech. They were halfway through their first week of sixth year, and so far every teacher had performed some variation on this address. This morning, the lecture was being given by Professor Flitwick, and therefore made mildly more interesting because of his squeaky little voice.
雷穆斯努力抑制着哈欠。他本来可能会感到紧张、担忧，甚至激励自己——而且确实如此。这是他第一次听到这番话。他们已经进入了第六学年的第一周的一半，到目前为止，每个老师都在以不同的方式重复这段讲话。今天早上，教授弗利特维克在讲这段话，因此因为他的尖锐声音，讲座显得稍微有趣些。

Remus looked out of the window. It was the full moon tonight, and he was restless. He had a horrible feeling about it, as well as the usual early twinges and surges of adrenaline. It was the first full moon he would be spending with the marauders since that terrible night in June. It was the first full moon after the werewolf attack in August – since he had run away from St Edmund’s.
雷穆斯向窗外望去。今晚是满月，他感到不安。他对这次满月有一种可怕的预感，还有往常的早期抽搐和肾上腺素激增。这是他自六月份那可怕的夜晚以来，第一次和麻烦制造者们一起度过满月。这是八月份狼人袭击后的第一次满月——自从他从圣埃德蒙德逃走以来。

The murders played heavy on his mind. The family was called Munday – both parents had been muggle born. It had been in the papers, and Remus had read everything he could while he was at the Potters. He’d searched high and low for mention of Greyback, for a picture, a description – anything. If this… man was after him, then he needed to be armed with information. But there was nothing. The press wasn’t publishing anything more than Moody had already told him.
谋杀案件让他心情沉重。这个家庭叫穆恩迪——父母都是麻瓜出生的。这已经在报纸上报道了，雷穆斯在波特家时读了他能找到的一切。他拼命寻找有关格雷巴克的任何信息，包括图片、描述——任何东西。如果这个……人要找他，那他就需要掌握信息。但是没有任何线索。媒体没有比穆迪已经告诉他的更多的报道。

The letter to Ferox had been written for almost a week now. It was burning a hole in Remus’s back pocket. He’d been waiting to get a chance to sneak off to the owlery on his own.
写给费罗克斯的信已经写了快一个星期了。它在雷穆斯的后口袋里燃烧着一个洞。他一直在等待机会独自溜到信使塔去。

Dear Professor Ferox,
亲爱的费罗克斯教授，

[he knew that Ferox wasn’t a professor any more, but he didn’t know what else to call him, and couldn’t bring himself to address him as anything so familiar as ‘Leo’.]
[他知道费罗克斯不再是教授了，但他不知道该怎么称呼他，也不忍心用‘利奥’这样亲昵的称呼。]

I hope it’s ok for me to write to you. I had a few questions and I couldn’t think of anyone else who might know. I spoke to Alastor Moody while I was staying with the Potters this summer, and he said you’re well. I hope you aren’t anywhere too dangerous.
我希望写信给你没问题。我有一些问题，想不到还有谁能知道。我在这个夏天住在波特家时和阿拉斯托·穆迪谈过，他说你很好。我希望你现在不在任何危险的地方。

Moody told me that the Munday family were murdered by Greyback. He said that Greyback might try to find me, and get me to join him. I hope you know I would never join that side. I do want to be prepared if he comes after me, though. Can you tell me anything useful? I don’t even know what he looks like.
穆迪告诉我，穆恩迪一家被格雷巴克谋杀了。他说格雷巴克可能会试图找到我，让我加入他。我希望你知道我绝不会加入那一边。不过，我确实希望能有所准备，以防他来找我。你能告诉我一些有用的东西吗？我甚至不知道他长什么样子。

I’m sorry to bother you with this, but you are the only person I can ask, because you knew my dad, and you know me.
对不起打扰你了，但你是唯一一个我能问的人，因为你认识我的父亲，也了解我。

Thank you,
谢谢你，

Remus J. Lupin.
雷穆斯·J·卢平

He knew that you were supposed to end letters ‘yours sincerely’ or ‘yours faithfully’, or something like that, but it seemed so silly and formal. He worried that Ferox might think he was trying too hard to seem grown up.
他知道信的结尾应该用“此致敬礼”或“此致”之类的词，但这些看起来既傻又正式。他担心费罗克斯会觉得他在努力显得成熟。

“Moony? Wakey wakey!” Sirius shook his shoulder.
“穆尼？醒醒！”西里斯摇了摇他的肩膀。

“What?!” Remus looked up, blinking and dazed. Sirius was standing over him, and everyone else was packing up their things,
“什么？！”雷穆斯抬起头，眨了眨眼，感到迷茫。西里斯站在他身边，其他人则在收拾东西，

“Lesson’s over, dopey. Where did you wander off to?”
“课结束了，傻瓜。你去哪儿了？”

“Just distracted,” Remus replied. He stood up and scooped his own assortment of quills and parchment into his book back, getting up.
“只是有点分心，”雷穆斯回答道。他站起身，把一堆羽毛笔和羊皮纸放进书包里，然后起身。

Sirius’s face softened. He leaned in and said very low,
西里斯的脸色变得柔和了。他凑近，低声说道，

“Is it because of tonight? Are you nervous?”
“是因为今晚吗？你紧张吗？”

Remus gave a sort of half shrug, half reassuring smile,
雷穆斯半耸了耸肩，半带着安慰的微笑，

“No more than usual.”
“比平时多不了多少。”

“We’ve got a free now,” Sirius said, chirpily - he was very much enjoying his NEWT timetable, having dropped four subjects. “Want to pop round the greenhouses?”
“我们现在有空闲时间，”西里斯愉快地说——他很喜欢他的NEWT时间表，已经退选了四门课。“想去温室转转吗？”

“Nah,” Remus grinned, “S’ok. I actually… I have to go to the owlery. Got a letter to post.”
“没必要，”雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，“没事的。我实际上……我得去信使塔。有封信要寄。”

“Oh yeah? I’ll come with you, James has another poncey prefect meeting. I swear you never went to this many meetings,”
“哦？我跟你一起去，詹姆斯还有另一场虚伪的学监会议。我发誓你从来没有参加过这么多会议，”

“Nah, I sort of left it all up to Evans, to be honest,” Remus smirked, “Of course, I wasn’t trying to impress her.”
“嗯，我基本上都把一切留给了埃文斯，老实说，”雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，“当然，我不是为了打动她。”

Sirius laughed,
西里斯笑了，

“Too bloody right - at least you know where your priorities are, Moony. Who’s the letter for?”
“说得对——至少你知道你的优先事项在哪里，穆尼。那封信是给谁的？”

“Er… do you mind not asking?” Remus looked down, as they left the classroom, walking with a slightly longer stride than usual so that Sirius would have to walk faster to keep up. It was a cheap trick, but there had to be some benefits to being tall.
“呃……你介意别问吗？”雷穆斯低下头，他们离开教室时，走得比平时稍微快一点，以便西里斯得快点跟上。这是个小把戏，但作为高个子应该有一些好处。

“Oh, of course, mate.” Sirius nodded respectfully, “Don’t mind me, I’m just bored, y’know.”
“哦，当然，朋友。”西里斯尊敬地点了点头，“别介意我，我只是有点无聊，你知道的。”

He had been extremely pliant lately, eager to supply Remus with any allowances he requested. Remus thought he could probably get away with snogging Mary on the Gryffindor dinner table with Sirius’s blessing, the way things were.
他最近非常顺从，热衷于满足雷穆斯提出的任何要求。雷穆斯觉得他可能可以在格兰芬多的餐桌上和玛丽亲吻，只要得到西里斯的祝福，就没有问题了。

They tramped up to the owlery quickly - with the moon waxing Remus’s energy levels were through the roof - then going single file up the final narrow winding staircase.
他们迅速走到信使塔——随着月亮的盈满，雷穆斯的能量水平飙升——然后单列走上最后狭窄的盘旋楼梯。

The owlery was a beautiful place, by anyone’s standards (provided you ignored the smell of bird shit) with the very best view of anywhere else in the castle. It was a bright and airy space with high rafters, filled with the soft sounds of roosting owls. Sirius dutifully hung back a respectable distance as Remus selected the sturdiest looking owl (he had no idea where Ferox was, or how far away, and wanted a bird that was up to the job), attached his letter, and released it through the huge picture window.
信使塔是个美丽的地方，不管谁来看（只要你忽略鸟屎的味道），它提供了城堡中其他地方无法比拟的最佳视角。这里明亮通风，高高的椽子，充满了栖息的猫头鹰的柔和声音。西里斯恭敬地保持着一段可观的距离，雷穆斯挑选了一只看起来最结实的猫头鹰（他不知道费罗克斯在哪里，或者距离多远，他需要一只能胜任的鸟），将信件绑上，然后通过巨大的画窗释放了它。

Sirius was leaning out of the window on the opposite side, staring down at the forbidden forest.
西里斯正倚着对面的窗户，盯着禁忌森林。

“How far d’you reckon we got, last year?” He asked, “Couple of miles, at least…”
“你觉得我们去年飞了多远？”他问道，“至少几英里……”

“At least,” Remus agreed, joining him at the windowsill.
“至少，”雷穆斯同意道，走到窗台边和他一起站着。

“Think we could reach those mountains? There’re caves, I bet. I used to quite fancy living in a cave, when I was little. Me and Reggie were going to run away from home and become cave dwellers.”
“你觉得我们能到达那些山脉吗？那里一定有洞穴。我小时候挺喜欢住在洞穴里的。我和雷吉曾打算逃家成为洞穴居民。”

“Weirdo,” Remus shook his head. “It’d be freezing.”
“怪人，”雷穆斯摇了摇头。“会很冷的。”

“Yeah, well you don’t think about that stuff when you’re seven, do you?”
“是啊，不过你七岁的时候不考虑这些东西，对吧？”

“I s’pose. I never actually thought about running away, to be honest. Lots of boys actually did it, but the police normally brought them back. Matron used to say that if one of us went missing it was no skin off her nose - she still got paid, at the end of the week.”
“我想也是。老实说，我从来没有真正想过逃跑。很多男孩确实这样做了，但警察通常会把他们带回去。看护阿姨曾经说，如果我们其中一个失踪了，对她来说没什么损失——她到周末时还会拿到工资。”

“Moony, that’s…”
“穆尼，那是……”

Remus laughed, and moved away,
雷穆斯笑了笑，走开了，

“C’mon, let’s get out of here, I’m hungry.”
“走吧，我们出去，我饿了。”

They began a slightly slower descent down the spiral staircase, but had to stop halfway as they heard footsteps coming up. Remus’s stomach sank when he saw it was Christopher. He’d recovered a bit from his sunburn, but still had a bit of a hot glow around his cheeks and nose. He froze when he saw Sirius, with Remus just behind him.
他们开始缓慢下行的螺旋楼梯，但在听到脚步声上来时不得不在中途停下。雷穆斯的胃一沉，看到是克里斯托弗时。他的晒伤恢复了一些，但脸颊和鼻子周围仍然有些红热。他看到西里斯时立刻僵住了，雷穆斯就在他身后。

The two boys flattened themselves against the wall as best they could to let him past.
两个男孩尽量紧贴墙壁，让他过去。

“Hi, Chris,” Remus smiled, politely.
“嗨，克里斯，”雷穆斯礼貌地微笑道。

“Hi.” Christopher responded, not making eye contact. Ah. He was definitely still annoyed about the way Remus had spoken to him at the end of last term. Remus had been worried about that - but he supposed he deserved a bit of cold shoulder. The silver pin gleamed on Chris’s robes, and Remus tried not to wince. He could feel it in his teeth, a giddy, sick sensation.
“嗨。”克里斯托弗回应道，没有看眼睛。啊。他显然还对雷穆斯上学期末的态度感到生气。雷穆斯对这一点有些担忧——但他觉得自己确实应该受到些冷落。克里斯的袍子上的银色徽章在闪光，雷穆斯尽量不去皱眉。他在牙齿间感到一种晕眩的恶心感。

“Well done on getting prefect,” he said, trying to sound friendly and encouraging.
“恭喜你当上学监了，”他说，试图听起来友好和鼓励。

“Yeah… thanks.” Christopher nodded. he still didn’t look up, exactly, but he sort of looked at the space over Remus’s left shoulder, and gave a weak smile as he passed.
“嗯……谢谢。”克里斯托弗点了点头。他还是没完全抬头，但有点儿看了看雷穆斯左肩的上方，在路过时给了个虚弱的微笑。

The close proximity to the silver was extremely unpleasant, and Remus’s head swam, making him dizzy. As Christopher pushed past them both, Remus wobbled forward and had to grip Sirius’s shoulder to keep balanced. He had to concentrate on his breathing to avoid fainting altogether until Christopher had reached the owlery, and barely noticed that Sirius had slipped a strong arm around his back for support.
靠近银色徽章的地方非常不舒服，雷穆斯感到头晕目眩。克里斯托弗挤过他们时，雷穆斯前倾了一下，必须抓住西里斯的肩膀以保持平衡。他不得不集中精力呼吸，以免完全昏厥，直到克里斯托弗到达信使塔，几乎没有注意到西里斯在他背后搭上了一只强壮的手臂以支撑他。

When he opened his eyes, and the wooziness had passed, Remus thought it must only have been a few seconds that they had stood like that, clinging to each other in the shadowy stairway. (Must stop getting stuck in confined spaces with him, the logical part of Remus’s brain scolded.) He realised he had been gripping Sirius’s shoulder really quite hard, and let go quickly, stepping away and adjusting his robes.
当他睁开眼睛，头晕感消失时，雷穆斯觉得他们这样站着，大概只有几秒钟而已，在阴暗的楼梯间相互依偎着。（雷穆斯的理智部分训斥道：必须停止和他困在狭小的空间里。）他意识到自己抓着西里斯的肩膀很用力，迅速松手，退开一步，整理了一下袍子。

“Sorry,” he said, “Took me by surprise,”
“对不起，”他说，“把我吓了一跳。”

“S’ok,” Sirius smiled, turning and walking down the stairs again, “Another reason to hate prefects, eh?”
“没事，”西里斯笑了笑，转身再次下楼，“又一个讨厌学监的理由，对吧？”

 

 

 Chapter 97: Sixth Year: October Chapter Text Saturday 9th October 1976

 

“Ugh,” Remus staggered to his feet as the transformation completed and his body settled back into its human form.
“呃，”雷穆斯在变身完成后踉跄地站起身来，他的身体恢复成了人类的形态。

“That didn't seem too bad?” James said, having just transformed himself.
“这看起来不算太糟糕？”詹姆斯说道，刚刚完成了变身。

“Depends what you mean by bad,” Remus grimaced, pulling his trousers on quickly.
“这要看你说的‘糟糕’是什么意思，”雷穆斯做了个鬼脸，迅速穿上裤子。

James looked away, politely to preserve his modesty, and Sirius, still a dog, padded over with Remus’s shirt in his mouth, offering it up with a cocked head. “Cheers, Padfoot,” Remus smiled. He wanted to pat the dog on the head, and had to keep reminding himself that this was Sirius.
詹姆斯礼貌地转过身以保持他的体面，而西里斯仍然是一只狗，叼着雷穆斯的衬衫走过来，歪着头递给他。“谢谢，帕德弗特，”雷穆斯笑了。他想拍拍狗的头，却不断提醒自己这就是西里斯。

“Thank merlin it’s Saturday,” James yawned, taking a seat on the beaten-up couch. It sagged drearily beneath him, springs wheezing.
“谢天谢地今天是星期六，”詹姆斯打了个哈欠，坐在那张破旧的沙发上。沙发在他下面悲惨地塌陷，弹簧发出喘息声。

“Yeah, if Madam Pomfrey lets me off the hospital wing, I’ll probably go straight to bed anyway,” Remus replied, stifling his own yawn, and laying down on his cot.
“是啊，如果庞弗雷夫人让我离开医务室，我可能还是直接去床上休息，”雷穆斯回答道，抑制住自己的哈欠，躺在他的行军床上。

“You’re lucky,” Peter said, appearing as if from nowhere, in a far corner of the room, “S’posed to be taking Dezzie to Hogsmeade at eleven. Prongs, don’t you have to lead the third years down?”
“你运气真好，”彼得说道，仿佛从无处出现一样，在房间的一个角落，“我应该在十一点带德齐去霍格斯米德。詹姆斯，你不是要带第三年的学生下去吗？”

“Nah,” James yawned again, noisily, “Now Evans knows about Remus’s furry little problem she’s actually cutting me some slack. That fifth year kid with the sunburn is doing it instead.”
“没有，”詹姆斯再次打了个响亮的哈欠，“现在埃文斯知道了雷穆斯的毛茸茸的小问题，她实际上对我放了些水。那个有晒伤的五年级小子在替我做。”

“Evans doesn’t know anything else, does she?” Sirius finally reappeared, joining James on the couch.
“埃文斯不知道别的事吧？”西里斯终于重新出现，坐到詹姆斯旁边的沙发上。

James shook his head, leaning back on the couch and closing his eyes. “Oi,” Sirius nudged him, “We’ve got to go, soon, don’t sleep.”
詹姆斯摇了摇头，靠在沙发上闭上了眼睛。“喂，”西里斯推了推他，“我们快走吧，别睡。”

“You lot go,” Remus murmured, “Get some rest. Thanks for coming, and all that...”
“你们去吧，”雷穆斯低声说，“去休息一下。谢谢你们过来，还有其他的……”

“Coming to Hogsmeade, Moony?” Sirius asked, hauling James to his feet, “Three Broomsticks?”
“要去霍格斯米德吗，穆尼？”西里斯问道，拉着詹姆斯站起来，“三把扫帚酒吧？”

“Can’t,” Remus shook his head, “Didn’t I tell you? Had my permission revoked. After the attacks…”
“不能，”雷穆斯摇了摇头，“我没告诉过你们吗？我的许可被取消了。发生了袭击之后……”

“What?!” Sirius looked outraged, “They can’t punish YOU for something some other bastard’s done!”
“什么？！”西里斯看起来很愤怒，“他们不能因为别人干的事来惩罚你！”

“Shhh!” Remus flapped his hand, frowning. Madam Pomfrey could be on her way down the tunnel - and besides, he had a headache, “It’s not to punish me, it’s for my safety. Now get lost, the lot of you.”
“嘘！”雷穆斯挥了挥手，皱起了眉头。庞弗雷夫人可能在走下隧道的路上——而且，他还头痛，“这不是惩罚我，而是为了我的安全。现在你们都走吧。”

They were gone in just the nick of time, Madam Pomfrey entered the shack only minutes afterwards. She gave him a quick going over, and, satisfied, walked Remus back up to the castle. She prescribed him a few hours sleep in the hospital wing, which he was more than happy to accept. With all of his friends in Hogsmeade, there wasn’t much to miss out on.
他们刚好在最后一刻离开了，庞弗雷夫人几分钟后就进了小屋。她给他检查了一下，满意后，把雷穆斯送回了城堡。她建议他在医务室里睡几个小时，他非常乐意接受。既然所有的朋友都在霍格斯米德，他也不觉得错过了什么。

He woke at about lunch time, stomach rumbling as usual. Madam Pomfrey had evidently anticipated this; there was a plate of cold cuts and bread on his bedside table, along with a bowl of fruit and a large goblet of pumpkin juice, which he drained first.
他在午餐时间左右醒来，肚子像往常一样咕咕叫。庞弗雷夫人显然预料到了这一点；床头柜上有一盘冷切肉和面包，还有一碗水果和一个大酒杯的南瓜汁，他首先喝掉了南瓜汁。

Remus was so ravenous, in fact, that he did not notice the letter propped up in the fruit bowl between two apples until he was well into the construction of his second sandwich. When he saw that it was addressed to him in a script familiar from the hundreds of returned Care of Magical Creatures essays, he almost knocked his plate off the bed in his eagerness to open it.
雷穆斯实际上饿得非常厉害，以至于他直到制作第二个三明治时才注意到那封夹在两个苹果之间的信。当他看到信是写给他的，并且用的是熟悉的笔迹——那是从数百篇《神奇生物护理》论文中看到的，他几乎因急于打开它而把盘子从床上弄掉了。

Dear Remus,

It’s a pleasure to hear from you, I don’t mind in the least.

I cannot disclose my location at present, but rest assured that I am as safe as it is possible for me to be. I am glad to hear that you are well - Dumbledore told me about your OWL results. I’m incredibly proud of you, Remus, I know you must have worked very hard. Keep on like that and I promise that nothing can stop you.

亲爱的雷穆斯，

收到你的来信很高兴，我一点也不介意。

我目前不能透露我的位置，但请放心，我尽可能地安全。我很高兴听到你安好——邓布利多告诉我你的OWLs成绩。我为你感到非常骄傲，雷穆斯，我知道你一定付出了很多努力。继续这样下去，我保证没有什么能阻止你。

It is perfectly natural that you should want to know more about Greyback. I only wish I had more to tell you. I am afraid I have never worked on any werewolf-related cases for the ministry - and if you want my opinion, no one has done any useful research into lycanthropy since your father - and as you know, he was quite terribly wrong about a number of things.

I do know that Greyback was a dangerous wizard before he was bitten, and is one of the cruellest men I have ever heard of - save Voldemort himself. The council that freed him against your father’s wishes believed him to be a muggle tramp - I would take this to mean that he dresses shabbily, and is a skilled manipulator.

你想了解更多关于格雷巴克的事是完全自然的。我只希望我有更多可以告诉你的。我怕我从未为魔法部处理过任何与狼人有关的案件——如果你问我的意见，自从你父亲以来，没有人对狼人症进行过任何有用的研究——而且你知道，他在许多事情上都完全错误。

我确实知道格雷巴克在被咬之前就是一个危险的巫师，他是我听说过的最残忍的人之一——除了伏地魔自己。解救他的人认为他是一个麻瓜流浪汉——我认为这意味着他穿着邋遢，是个高明的操控者。

I’m sorry I can’t give you any more than this. I want to emphasise, however that the most important thing we know about Greyback is that he is dangerous. If you have even the slightest suspicion that he knows where you are, then must contact Dumbledore immediately. Only Dumbledore can be trusted.

Best of luck with your NEWTs.

Ferox.

很抱歉我不能给你更多的消息。不过，我想强调的是，我们知道的关于格雷巴克最重要的事情是他非常危险。如果你有任何怀疑他知道你在哪里，就必须立即联系邓布利多。只有邓布利多可以被信任。

祝你的NEWTS好运。

费罗克斯

Remus read this through twice, then read the first paragraph once more, just for the thrill of it. ‘I’m incredibly proud of you, Remus’. What a wonderful thing. There was no solid information in there, of course. Nothing Remus hadn’t already considered - of course Greyback must look homeless; that was the best way to avoid drawing attention to yourself. And Remus was the very last person who needed to hear how dangerous this man was. The letter felt precious, all the same. Only the marauders had ever written to him before.
雷穆斯读了两遍这封信，然后又读了一遍第一段，只是为了感受一下。“我对你感到非常骄傲，雷穆斯。”多么美好的话语。当然，里面没有确切的信息。雷穆斯已经考虑过这些——格雷巴克一定看起来像无家可归者；这是避免引起注意的最佳方法。而雷穆斯是最后一个需要听到这个人有多危险的。他还是觉得这封信很珍贵。之前只有marauders才写信给他。

“Good afternoon dear,” Madam Pomfrey emerged from behind the screen. She had a sixth sense for knowing when he was awake.
“下午好，亲爱的，”庞弗雷夫人从屏风后面出现。她似乎有一种第六感，知道他什么时候醒来。

“Hello,” he smiled at her, Ferox’s encouraging words still in his mind.
“你好，”他对她微笑，费罗克斯的鼓励话语仍在脑海中回荡。

“You’re in a good mood,” she smiled back, “Though I don’t blame you - nearly a perfect night! You’re free to go as soon as you like.”
“你心情很好，”她也笑着回应，“虽然我不怪你——几乎是一个完美的夜晚！你可以随时离开。”

“Thanks,” He swung his legs out of bed at once, then looked up, quickly, “Er… Madam Pomfrey? Can I ask you something?”
“谢谢，”他立刻把腿从床上垂下，然后迅速抬起头，“呃……庞弗雷夫人？我能问你一个问题吗？”

“Of course, Remus,” she replied, busying herself about stripping his bed now he had left it. She did it with a sweep of her wand, it was some of the most elegant and seamless magic Remus had ever seen.
“当然可以，雷穆斯，”她回答道，忙着给他整理床铺。她用一挥魔杖的方式完成了，这些是雷穆斯见过的最优雅无缝的魔法之一。

“I’d like to learn about healing spells. Just basic stuff - I’m no good at Potions - actually, I dropped it.”
“我想学习一些治疗魔法。只是基本的东西——我对药水没什么天赋——其实，我已经放弃了。”

“Mm, I was sorry to hear that,” she replied, tidying his bedside now, “Potion making is a useful skill.”
“嗯，我很遗憾听到这个，”她回答道，现在正在整理他的床头，“药水制造是一项有用的技能。”

“Right, but I just want to be able to sort myself out after a full moon - once school finishes, you know…”
“是的，但我只想在满月之后能自己处理一下——等学校结束后，你知道的……”

Madam Pomfrey stopped what she was doing and sat on the bed to look at him. When he was a little boy, they were eye to eye when she sat down. Now she had to look up as he towered over her, and he thought for the first time what a very small woman she was. He had never forgotten the morning she had rocked him in her arms, and how safe she made him feel then. He could probably pick her up now, if he wanted to, and somehow she still gave him that same sense of security.
庞弗雷夫人停下了手中的工作，坐在床上看着他。当他还是个小孩时，她坐下来时他们是平视的。现在她不得不仰视他，因为他比她高得多，他第一次意识到她是多么小的一个女人。他从未忘记那天早晨她抱着他，让他感到多么安全。他现在可能能抱起她，如果他愿意的话，但不知怎么的，她仍然给了他同样的安全感。

“All right, Remus,” she said, after surveying him, “I teach a small selection of students the basics of healing on Tuesday evenings. You’re welcome to join, if you wish, though there isn’t a qualification in it.”
“好吧，雷穆斯，”她说，检查了他之后，“我在星期二晚上教少数学生一些治疗基础知识。如果你愿意，可以加入，不过这没有资格认证。”

“I didn’t know you did that!”
“我不知道你做这个！”

She smiled fondly, getting up again and resuming her work,
她慈爱地笑了笑，又站起身来继续工作，

“It’s to prepare students wishing to begin their training as healers once they leave Hogwarts. I can only presume that healing was not your chosen career path when you spoke with Professor McGonagall last year,”
“这是为了准备那些希望在离开霍格沃茨后开始治疗师培训的学生。我只能推测，当你去年和麦格教授谈话时，治疗并不是你选择的职业道路。”

“Oh yeah, right…” He rubbed the back of his head, slightly embarrassed. He had never thought about healing - largely because he thought it probably involved a lot of potions, but also because he was quite certain that no one would want to hire a werewolf to look after vulnerable people.
“哦，对……”他摸了摸头后部，有些尴尬。他从未考虑过治疗——主要是因为他认为这可能涉及很多药水，但也因为他相当确定没人会雇佣狼人来照顾脆弱的人。

The common room was nearly empty, it being a nice sunny autumnal day and a Hogsmeade weekend. Remus entered the dorm room quite noisily, allowing the door to slam. James sat up in bed, startled,
公共休息室几乎空无一人，因为这是一个晴朗的秋日周末，又是霍格斯米德周末。雷穆斯很大声地进入了宿舍，让门重重地关上。詹姆斯惊讶地坐起身来，

“Bloody hell!”
“天哪！”

“Oh, sorry!” Remus cringed, “I thought you’d be in Hogsmeade!”
“哦，对不起！”雷穆斯缩了缩身，“我以为你们会在霍格斯米德！”

“We were going to,” Sirius rolled over in his own bed, yawning, “But our beds looked so comfortable…”
“我们本来要去的，”西里斯在自己的床上翻了个身，打着哈欠，“但我们的床看起来太舒服了……”

“Damn, I didn’t mean to sleep that long.” James got up, stretching. “I was going to slip Rosmerta a bit of cash for the Halloween firewhisky, too.”
“该死，我不是故意睡那么久的。”詹姆斯起身，伸了个懒腰。“我还打算给罗丝梅塔一点钱，买点万圣节的火焰威士忌。”

“Don’t worry, I got Peter to do it.” Sirius replied, lying on his back, making no sign that he planned to get up at all. “Is it lunch time?”
“别担心，我让彼得去做了。”西里斯回答道，躺在床上，丝毫没有要起床的迹象。“现在是午餐时间吗？”

“Yeah,” Remus grinned, pleased to have his friends for an afternoon which he had expected to be very dull and lonely. “Shall we go down?”
“是的，”雷穆斯笑了，他很高兴能在一个他本来预计会很乏味和孤独的下午有朋友陪伴。“我们下去吧？”

“Let me shower first,” James nodded, trailing sleepily towards the bathroom. “Ugh, and I really ought to start that Defence Against the Dark Arts essay on patronuses - have either of you done it?”
“让我先洗个澡，”詹姆斯点了点头，睡意朦胧地朝浴室走去。“啊，我真的应该开始写那篇关于护法神的黑魔法防御论文了——你们两个完成了吗？”

“Drafted,” Remus said, flicking through his own pile of homework, “You can take a look if you want, but I bet you know it better than me anyway.”
“草稿完成了，”雷穆斯说，一边翻看自己的一堆作业，“如果你想看的话可以看看，但我敢打赌你了解得比我多。”

“Hardly had time for the reading,” James shouted from inside the bathroom. He never shut the door, and treated everywhere like a quidditch locker room, “With the game coming up and these prefect patrols - not that I’m complaining about those… patronuses look really cool though, I wanted to be the first one to do it.”
“几乎没时间阅读，”詹姆斯在浴室里喊道。他从不关门，把每个地方都当作魁地奇更衣室，“比赛在即，还有这些巡逻任务——虽然我不抱怨这些……护法神看起来真的很酷，我想第一个做到。”

Remus didn’t respond to this, but he thought James probably would be the first to cast a patronus. Not only because he was the best in the year at DADA, but - according to the books Remus had read so far, anyway – it looked like you needed to be able to conjure up a happy thought at extremely short notice. James seemed the most likely to be able to do this. Remus thought he could probably manage it too – but maybe not very quickly. He made a mental note to give it some further thought before the practical lesson.
雷穆斯没有回应这个，但他认为詹姆斯可能会是第一个施展护法神的人。不仅因为他在黑魔法防御课上是年级中最优秀的，而且——根据雷穆斯到目前为止阅读的书籍——看来你需要能够在极短的时间内产生一个快乐的想法。詹姆斯似乎最有可能做到这一点。雷穆斯觉得他自己也能做到——但可能不够迅速。他在心里记下了要在实际课程前多想想这个问题。

“So, we’ve sorted the booze,” Sirius was saying – loudly, so that James could hear them over the water running, “Food is easy – and it’ll be right after the feast, anyway, so no one’ll be hungry except Moony.”
“所以，我们已经搞定了酒水，”西里斯大声说——这样詹姆斯就能听到他们的声音了，“食物很简单——而且这会在宴会之后，所以除了月亮，没人会饿。”

“Up yours.” Remus said, blithely, settling onto his own bed, still trying to come up with happy thoughts.
“去你的。”雷穆斯无所谓地说，安顿到自己的床上，仍在努力想些快乐的事。

“Decorations…” Sirius continued, smiling, “Well I’ve asked Avni in Hufflepuff to do something creative with pumpkins, so we’ll see how that goes… then all we need is music. You’ll do that again, won’t you, Moony?”
“装饰……”西里斯继续说道，微笑着，“嗯，我已经请赫夫帕夫的阿夫尼做些创意的南瓜装饰，我们看看效果怎么样……然后我们只需要音乐。你还会负责这个，对吧，月亮？”

Remus shrugged,
雷穆斯耸了耸肩，

“I could, but last time everyone just put on whatever they wanted anyway.” He didn’t want to admit that he wasn’t particularly looking forward to the Halloween party. Not that he didn’t love getting off his face on firewhisky and watching James make a prat of himself on the dancefloor. But he couldn’t shake the memory of the last Gryffindor common room party, and how that had ended for him.
“我可以，但上次大家只是随便放了些音乐。”他不想承认他并不特别期待万圣节派对。不是说他不喜欢喝火焰威士忌，看到詹姆斯在舞池上出洋相。但他无法摆脱对上次格兰芬多公共休息室派对的记忆，以及那次派对的结局。

“That’s fine,” Sirius was reassuring him, “Just get them going for the first few tracks. Er… something they can dance to, this time?”
“没关系，”西里斯在安慰他，“只要让他们在前几首曲子上跳舞就行。呃……这次能跳舞的音乐？”

Remus smirked and raised an eyebrow,
雷穆斯露出一丝微笑，扬起了眉毛，

“You can dance to Pink Floyd, if you try hard enough.”
“如果你努力的话，可以跳皮ンク·弗洛伊德的音乐。”

“I know you have standards, but er… Mary’s asked if you could stick on some ABBA, maybe?” Sirius asked this with a mild wince, as if it caused him physical pain.
“我知道你有标准，但呃……玛丽问你能不能放点ABBA的音乐？”西里斯问道，带着一丝轻微的痛苦表情，好像这让他感到身体上的痛苦。

“Oh, Jesus,” Remus flopped back on his bed, dramatically, throwing an arm over his face, “Spare me.”
“哦，天哪，”雷穆斯戏剧性地倒回到床上，把一只手臂搭在脸上，“饶了我吧。”

Sirius laughed, which made even ABBA seem worth it.
西里斯笑了，这让ABBA的音乐看起来都值了。

“Shit! Mary!” James shouted from the bathroom.
“糟糕！玛丽！”詹姆斯从浴室里喊道。

Sirius frowned,
西里斯皱起了眉头，

“What?” He yelled back.
“什么？”他大声回应道。

James came running out of the bathroom, soaking wet and dripping onto the floorboards, a towel around his waist.
詹姆斯跑出浴室，浑身湿透，水滴落在地板上，腰间围着一条毛巾。

“Mary!” He said, again, “You were supposed to treat her to a day out in Hogsmeade, to make up for her birthday!”
“玛丽！”他再次说道，“你应该请她去霍格斯米德玩一天，弥补她的生日！”

“Oh, buggering fuck.” Sirius slapped his head, annoyed, “How do I keep forgetting?!”
“哦，见鬼。”西里斯拍了拍自己的脑袋，恼怒地说，“我怎么总是忘记？！”

“Not your fault, mate,” James said grabbing another towel to dry his hair, making it extra messy in the process. “You’ve been busy.”
“不是你的错，伙计，”詹姆斯说，抓起另一条毛巾擦干头发，这样头发看起来更加凌乱。“你最近很忙。”

Remus thought this was extremely charitable of James, and actually a bit of a lie, really. Sirius was the least busy of the marauders – he hardly bothered with homework, he wasn’t on the quidditch team, did nothing at all extracurricular, and was taking less subjects even than Peter. Other than detentions and a dedicated commitment to practical jokes, Mary was Sirius’s only other real concern.
雷穆斯认为詹姆斯这句话非常宽宏大量，实际上有点虚伪。西里斯是marauders中最不忙的一个——他几乎不做作业，不参加魁地奇队，不做任何课外活动，而且选修的科目甚至比彼得还少。除了惩罚和对恶作剧的专注，玛丽是西里斯唯一真正关心的事。

“Ah, well, she’ll forgive me.” Sirius sighed, “I’ll take her out next time, and really go mad on Valentines day.”
“啊，好吧，她会原谅我的。”西里斯叹了口气，“我下次会带她出去，情人节那天我会好好犒劳她的。”

“That’s months away,” Remus reminded him.
“那还要几个月呢，”雷穆斯提醒道。

Sirius shrugged. James shook his head, putting his glasses on and rooting around in his dresser for clothes,
西里斯耸了耸肩。詹姆斯摇了摇头，戴上眼镜，翻找着衣柜里的衣物，

“Your funeral, mate,” he said, “You’re going to lose that girl if you’re not careful.”
“你自找的，伙计，”他说，“你要小心，不然会失去那个女孩的。”

Remus’s heart skipped a beat.
雷穆斯的心跳漏了一拍。

 

Chapter 98: Sixth Year: Halloween

 

Tuesday 26th October 1976Boarding the Hogwarts Express in September.9月登上霍格沃茨特快车。Listening to David Bowie听大卫·鲍伊的音乐Listening to T-Rex听T-Rex的音乐Christmas at the Potters在波特家的圣诞节Winning a game of chess赢得一局棋Starting a new book开始读一本新书Finishing a book读完一本书Grant’s voice on the phone格兰特的声音在电话里A perfectly executed prank一个完美执行的恶作剧Beating Sirius at History在历史课上战胜西里斯Beating Sirius at anything在任何事上战胜西里斯Running through the forest at full pelt with Padfoot和帕德弗特全速奔跑在森林中Sirius Black’s smile西里斯·布莱克的微笑Snogging Sirius…和西里斯亲吻…“Ugh, focus!” Remus muttered angrily to himself as he stalked through the corridors towards the hospital wing. A group of first year Slytherins who happened to be walking past jumped at his outburst, then scurried away, whispering. Oh great, Remus thought, bet Snape’s already told them all about Loony Lupin. Talking to yourself will really help…

“呃，专注！”雷穆斯愤怒地自言自语着，穿过走廊向医务室走去。几名正好路过的一年级斯莱特林学生被他的怒吼吓了一跳，然后慌忙跑开，低声窃窃私语。哦，太好了，雷穆斯想，肯定斯内普已经把疯癫的雷穆斯的事告诉他们了。自言自语真的会有帮助…

He was on his way to his first study session with Madam Pomfrey and the students putting themselves forward for healer training, and using the spare time to list all of his very happiest memories. Only one memory in particular kept interrupting. If my patronus is a black dog, he told himself, I’ll have to leave Hogwarts forever and never show my face again.

他正前往第一次和庞弗雷夫人的学习课，以及那些报名参加治疗师培训的学生，并利用空闲时间列出他所有最幸福的记忆。只有一个记忆特别频繁地打断他。如果我的护法神是一只黑狗，他对自己说，我将不得不永远离开霍格沃茨，再也不露面。

“Hello, Remus! What are you doing here?”

“你好，雷穆斯！你来这里干什么？”

He had reached the hospital wing now, and found Marlene waiting outside, smiling at him, clutching a large textbook to her chest.

他现在已经到达了医务室，发现玛琳在外面等着他，微笑着抱着一本大书。

“Hiya,” He smiled back, “I’m here for the healing lessons.”

“你好，”他也笑着说，“我来这里是为了上治疗课程。”

“Oh wow! I had no idea you wanted to be a healer!” She beamed.

“哇！我不知道你想成为治疗师！”她笑容满面地说。

“Er… well yeah, I mean I was just interested… how about you?”

“呃……嗯，是的，我只是感兴趣……你呢？”

“Oh yes, it’s all I’ve ever wanted to be!” She said, proudly.

“哦，是的，这就是我一直想成为的！”她自豪地说。

Remus tried not to look too taken aback. That felt like the sort of thing he ought to know about his friends – but then, Marlene had always been a bit more private than Lily or Mary.

雷穆斯尽量不显得过于惊讶。这感觉像是他应该知道的朋友间的事情——但玛琳总是比莉莉或玛丽更为隐私。

Secretly, Remus had always felt a special fondness for Marlene. She was quiet and shy, like he was, less abrasive than Mary and less bossy than Lily. He remembered once, in a moment of confusion at the age of thirteen, having decided to fancy her. That embarrassed him now, but he had a feeling that if he told her, she’d see the humour in it. Actually, now that he thought about it, Marlene had the inherent good nature and sensible attitude that probably suited a healer.

雷穆斯暗地里一直对玛琳有一种特别的喜爱。她安静而害羞，就像他一样，比玛丽少了一些尖锐，也比莉莉少了一些指挥。他记得在十三岁时曾一时糊涂地决定喜欢她。这现在让他感到尴尬，但他觉得如果告诉她，她会看到其中的幽默。实际上，现在他想起来，玛琳有着天生的善良和明智的态度，这可能很适合做治疗师。

Besides this, during Madam Pomfrey’s lesson Marlene was clearly the stand out student. She seemed to know half the spells already, and the medi-witch approvingly told her she had a natural gift. Marlene flushed with pride at this, and Remus realised that it was the first time he’d seen her so confident. She had always seemed to unsure of herself before.

此外，在庞弗雷夫人的课程中，玛琳显然是最突出的学生。她似乎已经掌握了一半的咒语，治疗师也赞许地告诉她她有天赋。玛琳为此感到自豪，雷穆斯意识到这是他第一次看到她如此自信。她以前总是显得对自己不太确定。

“Blimey, I should just start taking lessons from you!” He said, as they left the sick bay later that evening.

“天哪，我应该开始向你学习了！”他在晚上离开病房时说道。

“Oh, shut up,” she grinned, bashfully, “You’ll be running rings around me once you’ve had the chance to catch up.”

“哦，闭嘴，”她害羞地笑了笑，“等你赶上来后，你会让我无法招架的。”

“Doubt it,” he nudged her. “Don’t want to be a professional beater, then?”

“不敢说，”他轻轻碰了碰她。“那你不想成为职业击球手吗？”

“Ha, no chance!” She laughed, “You should see the state my brother’s in, and he’s only been professional for a few years. Wouldn’t mind being the healer for the Cannons, though. Or whatever team Potter gets drafted to – then I can still see you all after school finishes.”

“哈哈，没机会！”她笑道，“你该看看我哥哥的状况，他只做了几年职业球员。不过当坎农队的治疗师我倒不介意。或者波特被选到的任何球队——那样我还能在放学后见到你们。”

“We’ll see each other anyway!” Remus said, “You can’t get rid of us that easily.”

“反正我们还是会见面的！”雷穆斯说，“你不能这么轻易地甩掉我们。”

“You’re a sweetie, Remus,” she elbowed him. “Hey, I’m really looking forward to this party – are the rumours true?!”

“你真是个好人，雷穆斯，”她肘碰了他一下。“嘿，我真的很期待这个派对——那些传闻是真的吗？！”

“Er…”

“呃……”

Halloween 1976 was due to fall on a Sunday, and due to the nature of the evening, Hogwarts students were given Monday off. This, in Sirius’s mind, could not have been more perfect.

1976年的万圣节正好在星期天，而由于晚上的特殊性质，霍格沃茨的学生们星期一休息。对于西里斯来说，这简直再完美不过了。

The marauder’s parties had grown legendary in status, and there were whispers all over the castle speculating on what exactly the four boys might have in store. There was mention of copious amounts of alcohol, potential fireworks – Remus heard one Hufflepuff who swore blind they had smuggled in a real band, instruments and all.

马拉uders的派对已经变得声名显赫，整个城堡都在窃窃私语，猜测这四个男孩到底会有什么特别的安排。有提到大量的酒精，可能的烟花——雷穆斯听到一名赫夫帕夫发誓他们偷偷带进来了一个真正的乐队，还有乐器。

“What do they think?” Laughed James, “I’m hiding them under my bed? ...er… they might be right about the fireworks, though...”

“他们以为怎么样？”詹姆斯笑道，“我把它们藏在床下？……呃……他们可能对烟花说得对……”

“James!” Remus groaned, “You’re a prefect!”

“詹姆斯！”雷穆斯抱怨道，“你是级长！”

“Exactly,” he grinned, puffing out his chest, “And I have the authority to sanction any celebrations I see fit.”

“正是如此，”他得意地笑道，挺起胸膛，“我有权批准任何我认为合适的庆祝活动。”

Remus had tentatively prodded Lily on this statement – not wanting to get James into trouble, but equally not wanting to see her humiliated, either.

雷穆斯对莉莉的这一说法小心翼翼地试探了一下——既不想让詹姆斯惹麻烦，也不想看到她受辱。

“Look, Remus, after six years I’m learning to just go with the flow as far as you lot are concerned,” she said, not looking up from her Arithmancy charts, “If Potter and Black want a party, they’ll find a way – I’m just going to brush up on extinguishing spells and make sure no one gets hurt. Besides,” - and she did look up, now - “I think everyone needs a bit of cheering up. The war, you know…”

“听着，雷穆斯，经过六年的学习，我已经学会了顺其自然，面对你们这些人，”她说道，眼睛没离开她的算命图表，“如果波特和布莱克想要派对，他们会找到办法的——我只是打算复习一下灭火咒，确保没人受伤。此外，”——她这时抬起了头——“我觉得大家都需要一些振奋。你知道的，战争……”

So that was that, then. If Lily Evans was ok with a party, Remus supposed that he would have to be as well. Besides, it was partly to celebrate Sirius’s birthday, too, which fell on the following Wednesday. And you had to be capable of superhuman cruelty to deprive Sirius Black of a birthday celebration.

所以，就这样了。如果莉莉·埃万斯同意派对，雷穆斯想，他也必须同意。而且，这部分是为了庆祝西里斯的生日，生日正好在接下来的星期三。而你得有超人的残忍才能剥夺西里斯·布莱克的生日庆祝。

This was a sore spot with Mary, who had been forgotten about twice now and was rapidly losing patience with her flighty, easily distracted boyfriend. The problem was, she seemed to think that Remus was the best person to vent to about it.

这让玛丽非常不满，她已经两次被遗忘，对她那浮躁且容易分心的男朋友失去了耐心。问题是，她似乎认为雷穆斯是最适合倾诉的人。

“I’m not an idiot,” she sighed, a few days after forgiving Sirius for his latest slight (not after having charmed all of the goblets on the Gryffindor dining table to suddenly fling their contents into his face), “I knew what he was like before we started going out, and my auntie always says ‘you can’t change a man…’”

“我不是傻瓜，”她叹了口气，在原谅西里斯最新的冒犯（不久前她施了魔咒，让格兰芬多餐桌上的所有酒杯突然把酒泼到他脸上）几天后，“我早就知道他是什么样的人，我的阿姨总是说‘你不能改变一个男人…’”

“Mm.” Remus replied, hoping this sounded caring and supportive. Evidently it did, because she carried right on talking,

“嗯。”雷穆斯回答，希望这听起来关怀和支持。显然是这样，因为她继续说下去，

“And, y’know I like the fact that he doesn’t follow the rules, and he doesn’t care what anyone thinks. I do just sort of wish he cared what I think…”

“而且，你知道，我喜欢他不遵循规则，不在乎别人怎么看。我只是有点希望他能在乎我怎么想……”

“I’m sure he does.” Remus mumbled.

“我相信他是在乎的。”雷穆斯咕哝道。

“He doesn’t show it, though… and, actually, he’s not the only good-looking boy at Hogwarts.” She said this with a wry look on her face, as a tall Ravenclaw seventh year walked past them. Roman Rotherhide – Remus had heard a lot of girls whispering about him. He had curly fair hair as long as Sirius’s, and dark brown eyes.

“不过他没有表现出来……而且，实际上，霍格沃茨里并不是只有他一个帅哥。”她带着一丝讽刺的表情说，正好一位高大的拉文克劳七年级学生从他们身边走过。罗曼·罗瑟海德——雷穆斯听到很多女孩在低声谈论他。他有着和西里斯一样长的卷发，和深棕色的眼睛。

Mary licked her lips, her own eyes following the older boy as he left the library. Remus slammed his book shut,

玛丽舔了舔嘴唇，眼睛紧随那位年长的男孩离开图书馆。雷穆斯猛地合上了书，

“Shall we go?”

“我们走吧？” 

Sunday 31st October 1976

The afternoon of the party, Remus was lying on his bed with the curtains drawn, listening to Diamond Dogs for the hundredth time, trying to avoid all of the nonsense going on downstairs. 派对的下午，雷穆斯躺在床上，拉上窗帘，听着《钻石狗》已经是第百次了，试图避开楼下发生的所有混乱。 The girls seemed to have joined forces and turned the usually comfortable, slightly worn around the edges Gryffindor common room into a cross between a jumble sale and the Boots cosmetics counter. 女孩们似乎联合起来，把通常舒适、略显磨损的格兰芬多公共休息室变成了跳蚤市场和Boots化妆品柜台的结合体。 He could practically smell the perfume from his bed, and it made his nose itch. 他几乎能从床上闻到香水的味道，这让他的鼻子发痒。

They were ‘getting ready’, Mary and Marlene had told him, though Remus couldn’t see what that meant, exactly – except that it seemed to involve a lot of mirrors, a lot of giggling, and an ungodly amount of hairspray. 她们在‘准备’，玛丽和玛琳告诉他，虽然雷穆斯不太明白这到底是什么意思——除了看起来涉及了很多镜子、很多咯咯笑声，还有大量的发胶。

James was trying out new beaters for the quidditch team, and Remus assumed Sirius was with him. 詹姆斯正在为魁地奇队挑选新的击球手，雷穆斯猜测西里斯和他在一起。 Peter was helping Dezzie ‘choose a dress’ for the party (though Remus suspected this was just a cover story; a glance at the marauders map told him that Peter Pettigrew and Desdemona Lewis were alone in the prefect’s bathroom.) 彼得正在帮德茜‘挑选一件裙子’参加派对（虽然雷穆斯怀疑这只是掩饰故事；看一眼麻瓜地图告诉他彼得·佩蒂格鲁和德斯德蒙娜·路易斯独自在级长浴室里）。

Alone and exiled from the common room, Remus had considered the library – but Christopher was there, and it looked like he was sitting close to the entrance (a novice error – you got far better light near the back by the windows), which meant that Remus would have to say hello, and Christopher would make some cold, shrugging reply, and eventually Remus was going to have to sort all of that out, but just now he wasn’t in the bloody mood, ok?! 独自一人，流放在公共休息室之外，雷穆斯考虑过图书馆——但克里斯托弗在那里，而且看起来他坐得很靠近入口（这是个新手错误——你在窗户附近的后面区域会得到更好的光线），这意味着雷穆斯必须打招呼，而克里斯托弗会给出冷漠的、耸耸肩的回应，最终雷穆斯得解决这一切，但现在他实在没心情，明白吗？！

Feeling very sorry for himself, he reclined on the bed and raised his wand, lazily levitating the record out of its sleeve and onto the needle. 感到非常自怜，他躺在床上，举起魔杖，懒洋洋地将唱片从封面上漂浮到唱针上。 He’d lugged the record player up from its usual spot on Sirius’s shelf and sat it on the end of his bed, hoping that with the bedcurtains drawn he could play it loud enough to drown out the high-pitched chatter drifting up the stairs. 他把唱片机从西里斯的架子上搬到床尾，希望窗帘拉上的情况下，能把声音放大到足以淹没从楼梯上传来的尖细聊天声。

‘In the year of the scavenger, the season of the bitch
Sashay on the boardwalk, scurry to the ditch
Just another future song for lonely little kids…’
‘在清道夫的年代，婊子的季节
在长廊上漫步，跑到沟里
只不过是为孤独的小孩准备的未来歌曲…’

“Oh, hello.” Sirius poked his head through the curtains. “哦，你好。”西里斯把头探出窗帘。 Remus sat up. 雷穆斯坐了起来。

“Hi,” he replied, uneasily, slightly embarrassed, as if he’d been caught doing something he shouldn’t be, “Did you want your record player back?” “嗨，”他回答道，略显不安，稍微尴尬，就像他被抓到做了不该做的事情一样，“你要回你的唱片机吗？”

“Nah,” Sirius waved a hand. “不，”西里斯挥了挥手。 He opened the curtains further, and much to Remus’s horror, climbed inside, crawling onto the bed. 他进一步拉开窗帘，让雷穆斯感到震惊，爬进了床上。 He settled down on his back beside Remus and listened to the record with him. 他在雷穆斯旁边躺下，仰面朝上，和他一起听唱片。

They were quiet for a long while, both staring at the red canopy above them. 他们静静地躺了一会儿，两人都盯着头顶的红色帐篷。 Remus kept telling himself that Sirius was behaving perfectly normally. 雷穆斯不停地告诉自己，西里斯的行为完全正常。 He lounged about on James’s bed all the time; it meant nothing. 他经常懒散地躺在詹姆斯的床上；这并没有什么特别的意义。

Finally, much to his relief, Sirius spoke. 终于，让他松了一口气的是，西里斯开口了。

“Broke up with Mary.” “和玛丽分手了。”

Ah. So that was all. Remus raised his eyebrows, 啊，原来如此。雷穆斯扬起眉毛，

“Really? Sorry about that, mate.” “真的？抱歉，伙计。”

He felt Sirius shrug beside him, 他感觉到西里斯在他旁边耸了耸肩，

“Nah, it’s ok. Not like I was in love with her or anything.” “不，没事。不是说我爱上了她什么的。”

“Plenty more fish in the sea.” “海里还有很多鱼。”

“Yeah,” Sirius chuckled. “是啊，”西里斯笑道。 They both fell quiet again. Bowie’s thin, sharp voice rattled between them. 他们又一次陷入沉默。鲍伊那细腻而尖锐的声音在他们之间回荡。 The first song ended and the thunderous swell of Sweet Thing began. 第一首歌结束了，接着是《甜美的事物》的雷鸣般的乐曲。 “Love this track.” Sirius commented. “喜欢这首歌。”西里斯评论道。 Remus murmured in agreement. 雷穆斯低声表示同意。

‘If you want it, boys, get it here thing,
Cuz hope, boys, is a cheap thing, cheap thing’
‘如果你们想要，男孩们，就在这里拿，
因为希望，男孩们，是廉价的东西，廉价的东西’

“We did it.” Sirius said, suddenly. “我们做过这事。”西里斯突然说道。 “Me and Mary.” “我和玛丽。”

“You did… oh. When?” “你们做过……哦。什么时候？”

“Over the summer. Once or twice since we’ve been back at Hogwarts. “在暑假期间。自从我们回到霍格沃茨以来，有一两次。”

“Right. Is that… I mean, that’s not why she dumped you?” “对。那么……我的意思是，这不是她甩了你的原因吧？”

“No!” Sirius scowled at him, “不是！”西里斯对他皱起了眉头， “Thanks for the vote of confidence, but I don’t think I was that terrible. We just broke up, that’s all.” “谢谢你的信任，但我不认为我那么糟糕。我们只是分手了，仅此而已。”

“…How was it?” “……怎么样？”

“The break up?” “分手？”

“No! …How was… It?!” “不！……怎么……回事？！”

Sirius smiled enigmatically, 西里斯神秘地笑了笑，

“Oh yeah… it was good. Great. Not like I imagined, but… yeah, good.” “哦，对……感觉很好。很棒。不是像我想的那样，但……嗯，很好。”

“Well… good, then.” “那……很好。”

“She’s really gorgeous. Mary.” “她真的很美。玛丽。”

“Yeah, she is.” “是啊，她确实很美。”

‘Then let it be; it's all I ever wanted
It's a street with a deal, and a taste
It's got claws, it's got me, it's got you…’
‘那就让它成为它吧；这是我曾经想要的一切
这是条有交易和味道的街道
它有爪子，它有我，它有你……’

“Remember when we were kids, and we were convinced Bowie was a wizard?” Sirius said. “记得我们还是孩子的时候，我们确信鲍伊是个巫师？”西里斯说道。

Remus smiled fondly at the memory, 雷穆斯怀着深情的微笑回忆道，

“Yeah, I think I still sort of believe he is.” “是啊，我觉得我现在仍然有点相信他是。”

“One day, when we all live in London, we’ll go and find him, and then we can ask.” “总有一天，当我们都住在伦敦时，我们会去找他，然后我们可以问问。”

Remus burst out laughing. 雷穆斯突然笑了出来。

“What?!” Sirius grinned back at him. “什么？！”西里斯也咧嘴笑了。

“You can’t just meet someone like Bowie!” “你不能就这样见到像鲍伊这样的人！”

“Don’t see why not. We could go to one of his gigs, or find out where he lives. Have some imagination, Lupin – once we’re of age we can do anything.” “没看出为什么不行。我们可以去他的演唱会，或者找出他住在哪里。动动脑筋，卢平——等我们成年后，我们可以做任何事。”

Rebel Rebel started up next. It was practically Sirius’ theme song by now. 《反叛者》接着开始了。现在几乎成了西里斯的主题曲。

“Anything.” Remus smirked. “You already think you can do anything.” “任何事。”雷穆斯带着狞笑说，“你已经觉得自己可以做任何事了。”

“Calling me arrogant?” Sirius narrowed his eyes, sitting up. He was smiling. “在叫我自大？”西里斯眯起眼睛坐了起来。他在笑。 Remus smiled back, 雷穆斯也笑了，

“Going to deny it?” He replied, “要否认吗？”他回答道， “Your ego is so big it has its own orbit.” “你的自尊心太大了，甚至有了自己的轨道。”

“Harsh!” “真苛刻！”

“Your ego is so big,” Remus continued, slyly, “你的自尊心太大了，”雷穆斯继续狡黠地说， “When you were doing it with Mary you probably closed your eyes and imagined yourself!” “当你和玛丽做这事的时候，你可能闭上眼睛想象着自己！”

“You wound me, Lupin!” Sirius reached for a pillow and began to beat him with it. “你伤害了我，卢平！”西里斯伸手拿起一个枕头，开始用它打雷穆斯。 Remus kneed him in the shin, rolling over to try and stop Sirius’ onslaught, but Sirius was quicker. 雷穆斯用膝盖顶了他的小腿，翻身试图阻止西里斯的攻击，但西里斯更快。 Laughing, he clambered on top of Remus, forcing him down, holding his wrists over his head. 西里斯笑着，爬到雷穆斯身上，压住他，抓住他的手腕放在头顶。 “Ha!” He cheered, triumphant. “Apologise!” “哈！”他得意地欢呼，“道歉！”

“No.” Remus cocked an eyebrow, and struggled to get free. “不。”雷穆斯挑了挑眉，挣扎着想要挣脱。 Sirius was straddling him now, and braced himself against Remus’ movements, pushing back down. 西里斯现在正骑在他身上，抵住雷穆斯的动作，继续压下去。

“You can’t escape!” Sirius said, “你逃不掉！”西里斯说道， “I’ve got you, Moony!” “我抓住你了，月亮！”

Their eyes met and everything was different. 他们的目光交汇，一切都变了。 Remus became acutely aware of the lack of space between them, every shape and angle of Sirius’ body that was touching his own. 雷穆斯敏锐地意识到他们之间几乎没有空隙，西里斯的身体每一个形状和角度都贴在他身上。 He jerked upwards, deliberately, testing, and Sirius pushed back. 他故意向上扭动，试探一下，西里斯则向回推。

“Sirius,” Remus whispered, tentatively, hearing the catch in his own voice. “西里斯，”雷穆斯轻声说道，试探地听到自己声音中的哽咽。 “What are we doing?” “我们在做什么？”

“Sh,” Sirius shook his head. “嘘，”西里斯摇头。 “Shh,” Sirius said again, leaning forward now, letting go of Remus’ wrists, “嘘，”西里斯再次说道，俯身过来，放开雷穆斯的手腕， “Just this… just…” His face was buried in the pillow next to them, Remus could hear his breathing quickening over the opening refrain of Rock ‘n’ Roll with Me. “就这样……就……”他的脸埋在他们旁边的枕头里，雷穆斯能听到他在《摇滚乐与我》的开头段落中呼吸急促。

‘You always were the one that knew…’
‘你总是那个知道的人…’

“Ok,” Remus whispered. We’ll do this. “好，”雷穆斯轻声说道。我们就这样做吧。

If this was what Sirius wanted, Remus wasn’t going to ask any more questions – he didn’t think he had enough blood left in his brain to formulate a thought, anyway; he was aching, straining with desire, and Sirius was pressing down on him, hitting the very parts of Remus that cared most for pressure. 如果这是西里斯想要的，雷穆斯就不再问更多问题——他觉得脑子里没有足够的血液来组织思想，他很疼痛，渴望着，西里斯在他身上施加压力，正好碰到雷穆斯最需要压力的地方。 He pushed his hand between them, fumbled with the buttons on their jeans. 他把手伸到他们之间，笨拙地弄着他们牛仔裤上的扣子。 Sirius stiffened slightly, but allowed it, letting Remus do everything. 西里斯微微僵硬，但还是允许了，让雷穆斯做一切。 Letting Remus touch him. 让雷穆斯触摸他。

He was momentarily shy about his body – how bony his body must seem; how awkward his hands. 他对自己的身体暂时感到害羞——他的身体可能有多骨感；他的手有多笨拙。 But soon there was no space left for shyness, Sirius kept moving, and Remus was lost, completely lost in the strange familiarity of another person, and the gorgeous smell of Sirius’s hair. 但很快没有空间再容纳羞怯，西里斯不断移动，雷穆斯完全迷失在另一个人带来的奇异熟悉感中，还有西里斯头发的美妙气味里。

It was over almost as quickly as it had begun. 这一切几乎像开始时一样快就结束了。 All it took was the right angle against Sirius's hip and Remus gasped, twitching, seeing stars, and a second later Sirius let out a muffled cry into the bedsheets. 只要在西里斯的臀部找到合适的角度，雷穆斯就喘息着、颤抖着、看到星星，一秒钟后西里斯在床单中发出闷闷的尖叫。

In the quiet moments that followed, they lay breathless and tense. 在随后的安静时刻，他们躺着，气喘吁吁，紧张不安。 Then Sirius propped himself back up, and climbed off, rolling over onto his back. 然后西里斯支撑起身，爬开，翻到背上。 They said nothing as they did up their trousers and straightened their clothes. 他们在系好裤子和整理衣服时什么也没说。 Remus refused to be the first to speak. 雷穆斯拒绝第一个开口。

“Got a bit carried away.” Sirius said, clearing his throat. “有点过头了。”西里斯说道，清了清嗓子。

Remus blinked. 雷穆斯眨了眨眼。

“Right…” He swallowed, dryly. “对……”他干涩地吞咽了一下。

“Sorry.” “对不起。”

“What? No, it’s ok.” “什么？不，没关系。”

Sirius looked awkward – Remus had never seen him look so out of his depth before. 西里斯看起来很尴尬——雷穆斯从未见过他如此不知所措。

“I’m going to have a shower. Not long until the feast.” “我要去洗个澡。离宴会不久了。”

“Right.” Remus nodded again, watching Sirius carefully climb out of the bed and back through the curtains. “好的。”雷穆斯再次点头，看着西里斯小心翼翼地爬出床，穿过帘子。 He stopped and turned back quickly, looking slightly panicked, 他停下脚步，迅速回头，看起来有些慌张，

“You won’t tell anyone?” “你不会告诉任何人吧？”

Remus snorted and shook his head. 雷穆斯哼了一声，摇了摇头。

“’s’if I would.” “像我会那样。”

Sirius nodded, and closed the curtain behind him. 西里斯点点头，拉上了帘子。

Remus flopped back on the bed, his mind still catching up. 雷穆斯无力地倒回床上，他的思绪还在追赶着。 If he wasn’t so confused, he’d be furious. 如果他没有这么困惑，他会非常生气。

*

A 'Jumble Sale' is the UK version of a 'Rummage Sale'.
'Boots' is a British chain of chemists (pharmacies) which sells make up and beauty.

 

Chapter 99: Sixth Year: Parties and Pustules 

He's in love with rock'n'roll, woah 

 He's in love with gettin' stoned, woah 

 He's in love with Janie Jones, woah 

 He don't like his boring job, no 

 And he knows what he like to do

 He knows he's gonna have fun with you 

 You lucky lady!

 

 

Sunday 31st October 1976

The 1976 Hogwarts Halloween feast was so terrible that Remus’s first order of business immediately afterwards was to get as drunk as humanly possible.

It wasn’t terrible in any outward kind of way, of course. The food was delicious, as usual – a glorious golden hog roast with apple crumble covered in goopy yellow custard for pudding. It was just terrible for Remus. Sirius wasn’t rude, or cold – he wasn’t even trying to avoid Remus. It was exactly his dreadful dedication to normality that made it so awful. He smiled. He laughed. He joked. He called Remus ‘Moony’ without a trace of shame. Remus had no choice but to follow his lead – after all, he’d promised not to tell.

“1976年霍格沃茨的万圣节晚宴糟糕得让雷穆斯在之后的第一件事就是尽可能地喝醉。

这晚宴在外表上并没有什么糟糕的地方，当然。食物一如既往地美味——一顿金黄的烤猪肉，配上苹果酥皮和粘稠的黄色奶油布丁。只是对雷穆斯来说非常糟糕。西里斯没有粗鲁，也没有冷漠——他甚至没有试图避开雷穆斯。正是他对正常的可怕执着让一切变得如此糟糕。他微笑，他大笑，他开玩笑。他毫不羞耻地称呼雷穆斯为‘月亮’。雷穆斯别无选择，只能跟随他的脚步——毕竟，他承诺过不去告诉别人。”

Mind you, he hadn’t the first clue how you would tell somebody a thing like that.

“Oi, James, has Sirius ever sort of got into bed with you and then you sort of ended up touching quite a bit?”

“话说回来，他完全不知道怎么告诉别人这样的事。

‘喂，詹姆斯，西里斯有没有在床上和你待在一起，然后你们不知不觉中碰到了一些地方？’”

Oh god, what if he had?! There was also Lily, of course, the most sympathetic person Remus knew after James – though the thought of talking to a girl about that sort of thing was mortifying. Mary was the most sexually experienced person Remus knew – and he absolutely, one hundred percent, could not talk to her about Sirius.

“哦天啊，如果真的发生过呢？！当然，还有莉莉，她是雷穆斯在詹姆斯之后最同情的人——尽管想到要跟一个女孩谈论这种事是令人尴尬的。玛丽是雷穆斯认识的性经验最丰富的人——而且他绝对、一百分之一地不能跟她谈论西里斯。”

Not that she’d have been upset. As the party got into full swing (Remus knocked back three shots of whisky as soon as the opportunity presented), Mary descended from the girls’ dorm dressed to kill in a very tight red dress, which made even Remus stare for a few seconds. Roman Rotherhide of Ravenclaw was first to offer her a drink, and the two spent the rest of the evening entirely absorbed in each other, in one way or another.

“她不会生气的。随着派对的正式开始（雷穆斯在机会出现时一口气喝下了三杯威士忌），玛丽穿着一件非常紧身的红色连衣裙从女生宿舍走下来，这让连雷穆斯都瞪了一会儿。拉文克劳的罗曼·罗瑟海德第一个给她倒酒，两人接下来的整个晚上都沉浸在彼此之间，以各种方式。”

Remus skulked by the record player for a bit, deliberately putting on the most abrasive, least danceable records he could find. The Stooges’ We Will Fall, swiftly followed by Sister Ray, then some Captain Beefheart for good measure. Eventually he was overpowered by a group of fourth year girls, who ganged up on him clutching David Cassidy and Bay City Rollers LPs. After that, he devoted himself to the punch bowl.

“雷穆斯在唱片机旁待了一会儿，故意播放那些最刺耳、最难跳舞的唱片。他放了The Stooges的《We Will Fall》，紧接着是《Sister Ray》，然后再加上一些Captain Beefheart。最后他被一群四年级的女生压倒了，她们抱着David Cassidy和Bay City Rollers的黑胶唱片围攻他。在那之后，他全心投入到果酒盆中。”

Sirius was having a good time, obviously. He and James were gregarious hosts, as always, making the rounds like the good pureblood heirs they were. The common room kept filling up as students came from all over the castle, and it got so warm that Remus ended up taking a bottle of Witches Brew he’d topped up with whisky, and sitting alone by the open window chain smoking.

“西里斯显然玩得很开心。他和詹姆斯一如既往地热情好客，像真正的纯血继承人一样四处走动。公共休息室不断地聚集着从全城堡来的学生，房间变得如此温暖，以至于雷穆斯最后拿着一瓶他加了威士忌的女巫饮料，坐在开着的窗户旁边抽烟。”

Marlene approached at some point, to see if he was ok, and to ask if Sirius was seeing anyone else, now that he and Mary were over. Remus scowled at the hopeful look in her eyes and told her he didn’t give a shit. She frowned, but left him alone after that.

“某个时候，玛琳靠近过来，看看他是否还好，并问西里斯现在是否还跟其他人交往，既然他和玛丽已经分手了。雷穆斯对她眼中的希望神情皱起了眉头，告诉她他不在乎。她皱了皱眉，但之后离开了他。”

At about nine o'clock, things got really hazy. The last thing he remembered was Peter and Desdemona’s pitch perfect performance of Paradise by the Dashboard Light (trust Peter to like Meatloaf, out of all the muggle music in the world). Remus vaguely remembered smiling stupidly as the pair of them flung each other about the room, red and sweating but having the time of their lives, belting out the duet at the top of their lungs.

“大约九点钟的时候，一切变得模糊了。他最后记得的是彼得和德斯德莫娜完美演绎了Paradise by the Dashboard Light（真不愧是彼得喜欢肉饼乐队，在所有麻瓜音乐中）。雷穆斯模糊地记得自己傻傻地笑着，看着他们在房间里互相抛掷，脸红和满身大汗，但却玩得非常开心，大声唱着二重唱。”

You gotta do what you can
And let mother nature do the rest
Ain't no doubt about it
We were doubly blessed
'Cause we were barely seventeen
And we were barely dressed…

“你得尽你所能
让大自然做其他的事情
毫无疑问
我们是双重祝福的
因为我们才十七岁
而且几乎没有穿衣服…”

The next thing Remus knew, he was in the dorm bathroom, bent over the toilet bowl, choking his guts out. He must have got there a bit late, because his shirt and trousers were wet and stinking. The room whirled and lurched, and he lay down on the soothing cold tiles, as the closing bars of Rebel Rebel wafted up the stairs.

“接下来雷穆斯知道的就是，他在宿舍的浴室里，弯着腰在马桶上呕吐。他一定是到达那里有点晚，因为他的衬衫和裤子都是湿漉漉的，散发着难闻的气味。房间在旋转和晃动，他躺在舒适的冰冷地砖上，Rebel Rebel的最后几段旋律飘上楼梯。”

“Oi, Moony! Wakey wakey, mate,” James’s voice boomed into his throbbing head a few hours later.

“Gnuuughh.”

“Bloody hell,” James sighed, “Scourgify! C’mon, up you get, it’s Padfoot’s turn to puke…”

“‘喂，月亮！醒醒，伙计，’詹姆斯的声音几小时后在他头疼的脑袋里轰鸣着。

**‘呃……’

‘该死，’詹姆斯叹了口气，‘清洁咒！起来吧，是帕德福特该呕吐的时候了……’”

Remus blinked at the bright light, and tried to crawl to his feet. Their bathroom was small to begin with, just room for a sink, toilet and bathtub. There wasn’t really room for three lanky sixteen-year-old boys, two of whom were so drunk they could barely stand. Remus backed into the sink as Sirius flung himself at the toilet bowl, noisily throwing up. Luckily his hair was tied back.

“雷穆斯眨了眨眼，看着明亮的光线，试图爬起来。他们的浴室本来就很小，只有洗手池、马桶和浴缸。对于三个瘦高的十六岁男孩来说，没有足够的空间，其中两个已经醉得几乎站不起来。雷穆斯退到洗手池旁边，看着西里斯扑向马桶，发出吵闹的呕吐声。幸运的是，他的头发绑起来了。”

Remus blinked again, staring dopily at him for a while, before James gently yanked him up by the elbow,

“C’mon Moony, me old pal, time for bed, eh?”

“Mm.” He mumbled, feeling childish and helpless. He allowed James to lead him out of the bathroom and towards his bed. Ugh. The sheets were still rumpled, and Sirius’s record player was still perched precariously at the foot. James moved this as Remus clambered under the covers, still in his jeans and socks.

“雷穆斯再次眨了眨眼，呆呆地盯着他看了一会儿，然后詹姆斯轻轻地拉着他的肘部，

**‘来吧，月亮，老朋友，该上床睡觉了，好吗？’

‘嗯。’他嘟囔着，感觉自己像个孩子一样无助。他让詹姆斯把他从浴室引到床边。呃。床单还是皱的，西里斯的唱片机依然不稳地放在床脚。詹姆斯移动了它，雷穆斯爬到被子下面，依然穿着牛仔裤和袜子。”

“Pfft, you were supposed to be the responsible one,” James huffed, jokily, as he drew the bed curtains. “Night night, Moony.”

“Jaaaaames…” Sirius whined from the bathroom. James tutted, and Remus closed his eyes.

**“‘啧，你本来应该是那个负责的人，’詹姆斯哼了一声，开玩笑地拉上了床帘。‘晚安，月亮。’

‘詹姆斯……’西里斯在浴室里哀怨地叫道。詹姆斯咂了咂嘴，雷穆斯闭上了眼睛。”

The hangover the next day was so horrendous Remus thought he’d probably never drink again.

“第二天的宿醉如此可怕，雷穆斯觉得他可能永远不会再喝酒了。”

 

Wednesday 10th November 1976

In the week that followed, Remus was completely on edge whenever Sirius was around. They weren’t ever alone together – and it was hard to tell whether or not this had been engineered by Sirius, or whether it was just a consequence of being at boarding school. Certainly, Remus made no effort to catch him alone – who knew what might happen?!

“在接下来的一周里，每当西里斯在身边时，雷穆斯总是非常紧张。他们从未单独在一起——很难说这是否是西里斯刻意安排的，还是只是在寄宿学校的结果。雷穆斯当然没有努力试图单独见到他——谁知道会发生什么呢？！”

There were plenty of explanations, of this he was certain. He just had to think about it. Perhaps Sirius was just up for it – they were both teenage boys, after all. Remus had been readily available, and hadn’t put up any resistance. Perhaps this was the sort of thing rich boys did at boarding school. Find a bit of rough to rub up against. It could even be a bit of Sirius’ canine side coming out.

“有很多解释，这一点他很确定。他只需要考虑一下。也许西里斯只是想要这样的事情——毕竟他们都是青少年男孩。雷穆斯一直随时待命，也没有反抗。也许这就是富家男孩在寄宿学校里做的事情。找一个人来摩擦。甚至可能是西里斯犬类的一面在显现。”

The worst part was that Remus didn’t actually care what the reason had been. He just wanted it to happen again. As guilty as he knew he ought to feel, he spent every night lying in his bed and wishing, wishing that Sirius would come creeping over. Or that he, Remus, had the courage to get up and go to Sirius himself. But the courage never came, and after a week (which comprised Sirius’s birthday, a Hogsmeade weekend, Bonfire Night and a full moon) Remus simply had to try and give up on it.

“最糟糕的是雷穆斯其实不在乎原因是什么。他只希望这种事情能再发生一次。尽管他知道自己应该感到内疚，但他每晚都躺在床上，祈愿西里斯能悄悄地过来。或者他，雷穆斯，有勇气起来去找西里斯。但勇气从未出现，经过一周（包括西里斯的生日、霍格斯密周末、篝火之夜和满月），雷穆斯只是不得不尝试放弃它。”

As usual when facing a crisis, Remus had composed a trusty list to help even out his thinking. This one was titled: Reasons to forget the Sirius situation.

“像往常一样，在面临危机时，雷穆斯编写了一份可靠的清单来帮助整理思路。这份清单的标题是：忘记西里斯情况的理由。”

Sirius clearly wanted to pretend it had never happened. A good friend ought to respect his wishes. Remus wanted to be a good friend, because, after all, losing a friend was potentially much worse than never touching Sirius again. Wasn’t it? Sirius was making no bones about his deep and abiding attraction to girls. All girls. Every girl. This last point was the most salient. A contributing factor to Remus’s messy downfall at the Halloween party had been Sirius’s dogged attempts to flirt with every girl in the room over fifteen. Extremely successful attempts. By the time the next weekend rolled around, it was common knowledge that Sirius was now casually seeing Avni Chaudry, the Hufflepuff who had enchanted the pumpkins to glow in the dark.

“西里斯显然想要假装这一切从未发生过。一个好朋友应该尊重他的愿望。
雷穆斯想要做一个好朋友，因为毕竟，失去一个朋友可能比再也不能碰触西里斯要糟糕得多，不是吗？
西里斯毫不掩饰他对女孩的深厚和持久的吸引力。所有的女孩。每一个女孩。
最后一点是最重要的。雷穆斯在万圣节派对上糟糕表现的一个因素就是西里斯执着地试图调戏房间里每一个超过十五岁的女孩。极其成功的尝试。到下一个周末时，大家都知道西里斯现在随意地和霍夫波夫的阿夫尼·乔德里交往，她曾用魔法让南瓜在黑暗中发光。”

This was a familiar situation, by now, and Remus was at least glad that he wasn’t a prefect anymore, and ran no risk of stumbling upon Sirius and Avni snogging in the Astronomy tower. He did start avoiding the greenhouses, though.

“这种情况现在已经很熟悉了，雷穆斯至少很高兴自己不再是一个级长了，不必担心会在天文塔发现西里斯和阿夫尼亲吻。不过，他确实开始避免去温室了。”

Life plodded on. Remus’s study group slowly re-banded, sidling up to him one by one in the common room, or the library, to politely enquire whether the seat next to him was taken, and then – once he had confirmed its availability – settling in and asking if he would mind just checking something for them, or giving his opinion on some point or other. Remus didn’t mind. It was a good distraction, and much healthier than getting stoned, at least. Christopher did not join in, but Remus supposed he might just be busy with his OWLs.

“生活继续推进。雷穆斯的学习小组慢慢地重新聚集，逐个走近他，或是在公共休息室，或是在图书馆，礼貌地询问旁边的座位是否有人，然后——在他确认了空位之后——就坐下来，询问他是否介意帮忙检查一些东西，或者对某个观点发表意见。雷穆斯并不介意。这是一个很好的分散注意力的方法，至少比起变得麻木要健康得多。克里斯托弗没有参与，但雷穆斯猜测他可能只是忙于自己的OWLs。”

The third full moon of the year went just as well as the previous two – James swore he’d caught sight of a unicorn, really really, this time. And the lessons with Madam Pomfrey became an unexpected delight, to the point where Remus was now competent at healing minor abrasions and bruises. No more TCP for him.

“今年的第三次满月与前两次一样顺利——詹姆斯发誓这次他真的看见了一只独角兽。而与波姆弗雷夫人的课程变成了一种意外的愉快，甚至到达了雷穆斯现在能够治疗轻微的擦伤和淤伤的程度。不再需要TCP了。”

So really, he told himself repeatedly, he, Remus John Lupin, had no reason at all to be unhappy. Everything was as it should be - even James and Lily were getting along without any hexes or curses being thrown. The emptiness was only inside him – his outer life was fuller than ever.

“所以，他反复告诉自己，他，雷穆斯·约翰·卢平，根本没有理由不快乐。一切都如它应该的那样——即便詹姆斯和莉莉也和谐相处，没有任何咒语或诅咒。空虚只存在于他内心——他的外在生活比以往任何时候都要充实。”

In light of all of this, he was quite surprised to receive a letter one quiet afternoon in the library. Actually, ‘received a letter’ might be overstating it. A paper aeroplane stabbed him in the back of his head, while he was trying to concentrate on converting an Agrippan arithmetic equation into the Chaldean form. He hissed in pain and grabbed it, glaring around. He was alone, but he knew exactly who was to blame. James’s locomotor charms were legendary. He unfolded it, smoothed it out and began to read.

“鉴于这一切，他在图书馆的一个安静的下午收到了一封信，感到相当惊讶。实际上，‘收到一封信’可能有些夸张了。一个纸飞机在他专注于将一个Agrippan算术方程转换成Chaldean形式时戳到了他的后脑勺。他痛苦地嘶了一声，抓住它，四处瞪眼。他是一个人，但他知道究竟是谁的错。詹姆斯的移动咒语非常有名。他展开信纸，抚平它，开始阅读。”

Marauders assemble! We have lain dormant too long.

Tonight. Midnight. Garden tapestry. Mischief.

“流氓们集合！我们已经沉寂太久了。

今晚。午夜。花园挂毯。恶作剧。”

He couldn’t help but smile. They hadn’t done a proper prank in ages.

“他忍不住笑了。他们已经很久没做过真正的恶作剧了。”

Thursday 11th November 1976 (Midnight)

“Who’s that?”

“It’s me.”

“Oh, hiya Moony, you found the cloak then. Sirius with you?”

“I thought he was with you!”

“Nah, I had patrol.”

“What about Wormtail?”

“He’s here, on my shoulder. We didn’t fit otherwise.”

“You two are making so much noise.”

“Padfoot!”

“Prongs.”

“How did you get here without the cloak?”

“I walked, you wuss.”

“Lucky Filch didn’t see you.”

“I was born lucky.”

**“‘那是谁？’

‘是我。’

‘哦，嗨，月亮，你找到隐形斗篷了。西里斯在你这里吗？’

‘我以为他在你那儿呢！’

‘不，我有巡逻任务。’

‘那小虫子呢？’

‘他在这里，在我的肩膀上。否则我们会挤不下。’

‘你们俩声音真大。’

‘帕德脚！’

‘角鹿。’

‘你们怎么没有隐形斗篷就来了？’

‘我走来的，你这个软蛋。’

‘幸运的是，费尔奇没看到你。’

‘我天生幸运。’**

The ‘garden tapestry’ was on the ground floor, only a few yards away from the entrance to the dungeons. From this, Remus had surmised that the prank would be aimed at Slytherin. He was not wrong. James had a very large wooden box with him, which he was propelling along with his patented locomotion charm.

“‘花园挂毯’在一楼，离地牢入口只有几码的距离。由此，雷穆斯推测这次恶作剧将针对斯莱特林。他没有错。詹姆斯带着一个非常大的木箱，他用他专利的移动咒语推动着它。”

“Some of the bubotubers accidentally cross-bred with some puffball mushrooms,” he whispered, as they crept down the stairs to the dungeons. “Professor Sprout asked me to chuck them on the compost heap, but I thought that would be a waste…”

“‘一些沸水怪菌不小心和一些泡球蘑菇杂交了，’他低声说，随着他们悄悄走下地牢的楼梯。‘斯普劳特教授让我把它们扔到堆肥堆上，但我觉得那会浪费……’”

“Where are we going to put them?” Sirius whispered back, excitedly.

“‘我们要把它们放在哪里？’西里斯兴奋地低声问。”

“Well I don’t know this year’s Slytherin password – any of you?”

“‘嗯，我不知道今年的斯莱特林密码——你们知道吗？’”

They all shook their heads, except for Peter, who – still perched on James’s shoulder – gave a negative sounding squeak. James sighed, only mildly disappointed, “Then I thought we could probably just leave them scattered about a bit – they’re just about ready to spore, I reckon…”

“他们都摇了摇头，除了彼得，他仍然趴在詹姆斯的肩膀上，发出了一声否定的 squeak。詹姆斯叹了口气，只有轻微的失望，‘那我想我们可以把它们随意放在各处——它们差不多准备孢子了，我认为……’”

Once they had reached the dingy, cave-like lower levels of the castle, Peter transformed back into himself, and James set down his crate. He lifted the lid to present a bounty of at least one hundred large, yellowish, gently pulsating mushrooms.

“一旦他们到达了城堡阴暗的洞穴般的下层，彼得变回了原形，詹姆斯放下了他的箱子。他打开盖子，展示出至少一百个大型的、黄绿色的、轻微脉动的蘑菇。”

“Eugh.” Peter said.

“‘呃。’彼得说道。”

“Yup,” James grinned, lifting one carefully out of the box. It was about the size of a tennis ball, “Don’t squeeze ‘em, they’re full of pus and ready to blow.”

“‘是的，’詹姆斯笑着说，小心地从箱子里拿出一个。它大约有一个网球的大小，‘别挤它们，它们里面满是脓液，随时准备爆炸。’”

“This is going to be excellent.” Sirius grinned, reaching in and grabbing two.

“‘这将会很棒。’西里斯笑着说，伸手抓了两个。”

They quickly and efficiently began squirrelling away the weird, pimpleish fungus – behind sconces, over doorways, under carpets and inside suits of armour. The puffball-bubotuber hybrids were throbbing unpleasantly in their hands, and Remus thought James was right; they were ready to go off at any minute, leaving the dungeons covered in foul-smelling yellow pus.

“他们迅速而高效地开始将这些奇怪的、像丘疹的真菌藏在墙壁灯后面、门口上方、地毯下方和盔甲内部。泡球-沸水怪菌混合体在他们手中不舒服地脉动，雷穆斯觉得詹姆斯说得对；它们随时准备爆炸，使地牢覆盖上难闻的黄色脓液。”

They had maybe half finished with the box, when Remus’s ears pricked – he had the strange sense he was being watched. Whirling around, he spotted the glowing yellow eyes of Mrs Norris, peering around the corner with that smug, spiteful look on her squashed face.

“当他们大约完成了半箱时，雷穆斯的耳朵竖起——他有一种奇怪的感觉，像是被监视了。转过身来，他发现了诺里斯夫人的发光黄色眼睛，她那张压扁的脸上带着那种自鸣得意、恶意的表情，从角落里窥视。”

“Shit,” he whispered, “Quick, look!”

“‘糟糕，’他低声说，‘快看！’”

“Oh bugger!” James said, “You three take the cloak and hide, I’ll--”

“‘哦，糟糕！’詹姆斯说，‘你们三个拿着隐形斗篷躲起来，我来——’”

“Who’s there?” Filch’s voice barked.

“‘谁在那里？’费尔奇的声音大声吼道。”

“Quick!” James hissed, and began running in the opposite direction.

“‘快！’詹姆斯嘶声说，然后开始朝相反的方向跑去。”

Peter, Sirius and Remus looked at each other, before telepathically deciding to duck into the nearest open doorway – which just so happened to be the girl’s loos.

“彼得、西里斯和雷穆斯互相看了一眼，然后心灵感应地决定躲进最近的一个开门——刚好是女生厕所。”

“That fucking cat has it in for me,” Sirius muttered, “Ever since I became an Animagus.”

“‘那只该死的猫对我有意见，’西里斯低声说，‘自从我成为Animagus之后就这样。’”

“You can talk!” Peter replied testily, wringing his hands. Remus had dragged the box of mushrooms in behind them, and was desperately looking for a place to hide it.

“‘你还能说话！’彼得不耐烦地回答，搓着手。雷穆斯把箱子拖到他们身后，绝望地寻找藏匿的地方。”

“Push it in front of the door!” Sirius said.

“‘把它推到门前面！’西里斯说。”

“I don’t think that will--”

“‘我觉得那样不行——’”

“Locomoto!”

“‘移动咒！’”

“No!”

“‘不行！’”

Sirius was not as good at this charm as James. He always put a bit too much force behind it. It was all Remus could do to duck down and cover his head, as the crate of delicate bubotuber-puffballs slammed loudly into the bathroom door, setting off every last pustule with a sickening squelch.

“西里斯这方面的魔咒没有詹姆斯那么熟练。他总是用力过猛。雷穆斯只能趴下，捂住头，当那箱脆弱的沸水怪菌-泡球混合体猛地撞上厕所门，发出令人作呕的挤压声，激活了每一个脓疱。”

Peter disappeared completely, shrinking down to rat-size at the very last moment, and scuttling down the nearest drain for refuge. Sirius, ever-confident in his abilities, simply stood there looking stupid as gallons and gallons of pus exploded in his face, coating the entire bathroom in the process.

“彼得完全消失了，最后一刻缩小到鼠子大小，急忙钻进最近的排水沟中避难。西里斯，永远对自己的能力充满自信，站在那里显得愚蠢，成吨的脓液爆炸在他的脸上，覆盖了整个厕所。”

It was sometimes very easy not to idolise Sirius Black.

“有时候，真的很容易不去崇拜西里斯·布莱克。”

 

Chapter 100: Sixth Year: Boundaries 

I can’t help from crying

Oh no, boy, you ain’t done nothing wrong

You just make me feel so good it hurts me

Cuz I’ve been without you so long

And now I got a good kinda hurt

I got a good kinda hurt

Oh boy, you make me, you really make me come alive

 

 

Friday 12th November 1976

They were caught, of course – just Sirius and Remus. Peter’s quick thinking had got him out of it, and James had run fast enough in time. He wanted to tell McGonagall that the whole thing had been his idea, but Sirius wouldn’t let him.
“他们被抓住了，当然——只有西里斯和雷穆斯。彼得的迅速反应让他脱身了，詹姆斯也跑得够快。他想告诉麦格教授整个事情是他的主意，但西里斯不让他这么做。”

Their head of house gave them one of the worst dressing downs they’d had in years – made all the worse by the fact that she was clad in her tartan nightie and dressing down, which was not amusing in the slightest, but extremely terrifying. They stood in her office, heads hung, dripping pus until she dismissed them to bed. Twenty house points lost, and detention until Christmas. Ah well.
“他们的年级主任给了他们多年来最严重的训斥——更糟的是，她穿着她的格子睡衣和睡袍，这一点一点都不好笑，反而非常可怕。他们站在她的办公室里，低着头，滴着脓液，直到她把他们赶去睡觉。失去了二十个院分，直到圣诞节的拘留。唉。”

“You both have an hour free before lunch tomorrow,” she said, as a parting barb, “I expect both of you to report to the dungeons in order to clean up your mess. Without magic.”
“‘你们明天午饭前有一个小时的空闲时间，’她说，作为告别的话，‘我希望你们两个人到地牢去清理你们的烂摊子。没有魔法。’”

Sirius was furious, and after he’d washed went to bed without another word. Pete sat on the end of his own bed, looking pale faced and worried.
“西里斯非常生气，洗完后就不再说话地上床睡觉。彼得坐在自己床的边缘，脸色苍白，神情忧虑。”

“I’m really sorry!” He whispered to Remus, desperately, “I panicked, sometimes I just lose control when I’m scared…”
“‘我真的很抱歉！’他绝望地对雷穆斯低声说，‘我慌了，有时候我在害怕时会失去控制……’”

“S’ok,” Remus replied, tiredly, “It’s only detention.”
“‘没关系，’雷穆斯疲倦地回答，‘不过是拘留罢了。’”

“Anyway,” James piped up from his bed, “They didn’t find any of the puffballs we hid, yet…”
“‘不过，’詹姆斯从他的床上插话道，‘他们还没有找到我们藏起来的那些泡球蘑菇……’”

James was quite right, and in a sublime twist of fate, the bubotuber-puffballs exploded early the next morning, just as most of the Slytherin students were on their way from the dungeons to the Great Hall for breakfast. So at least the evening had not been a complete waste of time.
“詹姆斯说得对，命运的奇妙转折是，那些沸水怪菌-泡球混合体在第二天早上爆炸了，正当大多数斯莱特林的学生正从地牢去往大厅吃早餐。所以至少晚上并没有完全浪费时间。”

“It was you two?!” Lily stared at Remus, amazed, when he told her why he couldn’t meet her in the library before lunch, “Not Black and Potter, Black and you?!”
“‘是你们两个？’莉莉惊讶地盯着雷穆斯，当他告诉她为什么不能在午餐前去图书馆见她时，‘不是布莱克和波特，是布莱克和你？’”

“Don’t have to act that surprised,” he frowned, “I’m capable of being an idiot as much as anyone else is.”
“‘没必要表现得那么惊讶，’他皱眉说，‘我也能像其他人一样愚蠢的。’”

“No, but I thought you and Sirius were on the outs.”
“‘不，我以为你和西里斯不合。’”

“Why would you think that?!”
“‘你为什么会这么认为？！’”

“Oh, something Mary said, I suppose…”
“‘哦，也许是玛丽说的什么……’”

“What did Mary say?” Remus felt a flare of heat shoot up his neck – had Sirius told Mary something? Some stupid slip of the tongue while they were cosying up together?
“‘玛丽说了什么？’雷穆斯感到脖子上泛起一阵热潮——西里斯告诉玛丽什么了吗？是否在他们亲密的时候说了什么愚蠢的话？”

“I don’t know,” Lily looked mildly surprised, “Ask her, I can’t really remember, I just thought she said something about the two of you not talking. Anyway, if you could please try not to destroy any more bathrooms this year? Gryffindor’s got the lowest house points already, and it’s not even Christmas.”
“‘我不知道，’莉莉看起来有点惊讶，‘问问她，我真的记不太清楚了，我只记得她说过你们两个没有说话的事。无论如何，你能不能尽量不要再破坏厕所了？格兰芬多的院分已经最低了，连圣诞节都还没到。’”

The surprise corridor attacks had lost twenty more house points from Gryffindor, and an extra night’s detention for Remus and Sirius. James was terribly guilty, but Sirius’s sense of chivalry and honour got in the way, and he still wouldn’t let him confess.
“意外的走廊袭击让格兰芬多又丢失了二十个院分，雷穆斯和西里斯又多了一晚的拘留。詹姆斯非常内疚，但西里斯的骑士精神和荣誉感阻碍了他，他仍然不让詹姆斯坦白。”

Of course, it was a very different story later that day, when he and Remus were standing outside the cordoned off bathroom, waiting for Filch to arrive with buckets and mops.
“当然，那天晚些时候的情况完全不同，当他和雷穆斯站在被封锁的厕所外，等待费尔奇带着桶和拖把来时。”

“Bloody Wormtail, this is all his fault.”
“‘该死的小虫子，这都是他的错。’”

“No it isn’t.” Remus yawned, leaning against the wall. He hadn’t had enough sleep.
“‘不是的。’雷穆斯打了个哈欠，靠在墙上。他没睡够。”

“The little twerp ran away like the vermin he is!”
“‘那小蠢货像他那样的害虫一样逃跑了！’”

“Hey, be nice,” Remus frowned, “He only did that because someone got over excited and blew up all those mushrooms.”
“‘喂，别这么说，’雷穆斯皱眉说，‘他只是因为有人过于兴奋而炸毁了那些蘑菇才这样做的。’”

“I was thinking on my feet.” Sirius raised his chin, defiantly.
“‘我当时是急中生智。’西里斯傲慢地抬起下巴。”

“You weren’t thinking at all.”
“‘你根本没有考虑。’”

“Well you weren’t doing anything!”
“‘而你什么也没做！’”

“I was trying to hide it! If we’d hidden the box and got under the cloak, no one would have got in trouble at all!”
“‘我在试着藏起来！如果我们把箱子藏好，躲在隐形斗篷下，没有人会有麻烦的！’”

“Well you didn’t say that at the time!” Sirius snapped.
“‘但你当时没有这么说！’西里斯怒吼道。”

“You didn’t give me a chance!”
“‘你没有给我机会！’”

“He still didn’t have to run away.” Sirius folded his arms, leaning against the opposite wall.
“‘他还是不应该跑掉。’西里斯抱着手臂，靠在对面的墙上。”

Tired and grumpy, Remus spat back,
“疲倦且烦躁，雷穆斯反驳道，”

“James ran away too. Don't see you cursing his name.”
“‘詹姆斯也跑了。没见你咒骂他的名字。’”

Sirius glared at him, furiously. How dare anyone speak against James Potter in the presence of Sirius Black. Remus rolled his eyes and stared at the ceiling until Filch arrived.
“西里斯愤怒地瞪着他。西里斯·布莱克怎么会允许任何人在他面前说詹姆斯·波特的坏话。雷穆斯翻了个白眼，盯着天花板，直到费尔奇到达。”

Argus Filch was one of the most unpleasant adults Remus had ever met. Matron would have liked him. A bitter, spiteful, creeping man on the wrong side of middle age, Filch was a caretaker and a sneak, who seemed to hate students more than anyone who worked in a school really ought to. This was never more evident than when he was permitted to administer detentions.
“阿格斯·费尔奇是雷穆斯遇到的最讨厌的成年人之一。保健员会喜欢他。他是一个尖刻、怨恨、鬼鬼祟祟的中年男人，费尔奇是一个看起来比任何在学校工作的人的学生都要讨厌的看护者和小偷。在他被允许执行拘留任务时，这一点表现得尤为明显。”

He dropped two large wooden buckets at their feet with a malicious grin on his face, and pushed the door open. Overnight, the pus seemed to have dried and left a thick yellowish crust over most of the surfaces it had hit. Remus wrinkled his nose. Filch handed them both mops and scrubbing brushes.
“他脸上带着恶意的笑容，将两个大木桶扔在他们的脚下，然后推开了门。过夜后，脓液似乎已经干了，留下了厚厚的黄色结痂覆盖在大部分受影响的表面上。雷穆斯皱起了鼻子。费尔奇递给他们两个拖把和刷子。”

“I’ll be back to check on you on two hours.” He said, “You ought to be done by then. No wands and no funny business.” He sneered as he left them to it.
“‘我两个小时后回来检查你们。’他说，‘到时候你们应该完成了。没有魔杖，没有搞怪。’他冷笑着离开了他们。”

Remus looked at Sirius, who was obviously still annoyed with him. He straightened his back,
“雷穆斯看着西里斯，明显还在对他不满。他挺直了背，”

“I’ll start over there,” he nodded to the far end of the bathroom, “You go over there.” He indicated the opposite end.
“‘我从那边开始，’他点了点厕所的另一头，‘你去那边。’他指了指相反的方向。”

“Fine.” Remus shrugged, lifting his bucket and filling it at the sink. Yes, actually, that was perfect. They’d keep to their own sides and just get this stupid thing over with.
“‘好吧。’雷穆斯耸了耸肩，提起他的桶在水槽里装满水。是的，实际上，这正合适。他们各自工作，把这件愚蠢的事尽快做完。”

Sirius still wasn’t talking to him, and turned his back, working in silence. Remus followed suit. Two could play at that game. Sirius was making it much easier.
“西里斯仍然不跟他说话，背过身去，默默地工作。雷穆斯也跟着做。两人都保持沉默。西里斯让事情变得容易了许多。”

Remus would never admit it, but he didn’t mind cleaning, and actually found it quite satisfying. As disgusting as the pus looked, it came away from the white tile easily with a bit of soap and water, so the work wasn’t too physically taxing, until it came to wiping down the walls. This was harder just because of all the reaching and stretching, which tired him out and made his shoulders ache.
“雷穆斯永远不会承认，但他并不介意清洁，实际上觉得这很有满足感。尽管脓液看起来很恶心，但用一点肥皂和水就能轻易清洁白色瓷砖，所以这项工作并不太费体力，直到需要擦拭墙壁时。这更难，因为要伸手去擦，感觉很累，肩膀也酸。”

Additionally, bubotuber pus wasn’t actually pus, according to the Herbology textbook Remus had skimmed in a hurry before turning up to clean it – in that it wasn’t dirty or toxic. In fact, it had several healing properties – and while this gunk was from an accidental cross-bred strain, it probably couldn’t do any more harm than pumpkin juice.
“此外，根据雷穆斯在急忙赶去清理之前匆匆浏览的植物学教科书，沸水怪菌的脓液实际上并不是脓液——它既不脏也不毒。实际上，它具有几种治愈属性——虽然这种污垢来自意外的杂交品系，但它可能不会比南瓜汁更有害。”

The little bathroom was eerily quiet, with the two boys silently working and only the occasional sloshing sound of them filling up their buckets or swabbing the floor. Remus didn’t mind the cold atmosphere, either – it actually helped him concentrate. He had known for a long time that his feelings for Sirius rarely got in the way of his ability to be irritated by Sirius.
“这个小厕所异常安静，两个人默默地工作，只有偶尔填满桶或擦地板时的水声。雷穆斯也不介意这种冷清的气氛——实际上，它帮助他集中注意力。他早已知道他对西里斯的感情很少妨碍他对西里斯的烦躁。”

By the time the first hour was up, they had managed to remove all trace of the mess, and all that was left to do was a final rinse down. Remus rinsed his bucket a few more times, and took the opportunity to wash his hands and his face, which had grown hot from exertion. Sirius joined him at the sink, but they didn’t speak.
“到第一个小时结束时，他们已经设法清除掉了所有的痕迹，只剩下最后的冲洗。雷穆斯再冲洗了几次桶，并趁机洗了手和脸，脸因为劳动而变热了。西里斯在水槽旁加入了他，但他们没有说话。”

“Nearly finished,” Remus tried, tentatively.
“‘快完成了，’雷穆斯试探性地说。”

Sirius snorted, annoyed,
“西里斯哼了一声，显得恼怒，”

“No thanks to Wormt-”
“‘这都要感谢小虫子——’”

“Shut up about Wormtail, will you?!” Remus said, exasperated, “Grow up!”
“‘别再提小虫子了，好吗？！’雷穆斯恼怒地说，‘成熟点！’”

Sirius frowned, and said nothing. He washed his hands and face too. Remus tried not to watch. He turned back to his own wall, and began squeezing clear water across it, wiping away what was left of the soap suds.
“西里斯皱眉，没有说话。他也洗了手和脸。雷穆斯尽量不去看。他转回到自己的墙壁，开始用清水擦拭，擦掉剩余的肥皂泡沫。”

A shadow appeared at his shoulder, and he braced himself for more bickering.
“一个影子出现在他的肩膀上，他做好了准备继续争吵。”

“You missed a bit.” Sirius huffed, grumpily, elbowing Remus out of the way and scrubbing it himself. Affronted, Remus scowled back at him,
“‘你漏了一点。’西里斯气喘吁吁地说，愠怒地用肘推开雷穆斯，自己擦拭。受到了冒犯的雷穆斯回瞪着他，”

“Thought we were sticking to our own sides.”
“‘我以为我们要各自做自己的事。’”

“Yeah, thought you could be trusted to do a decent job.”
“‘是啊，想当然地以为你可以做到的好点。’”

“If I didn’t have you breathing down my neck the whole time!”
“‘如果不是你一直在我身边盯着我！’”

“You’re so sensitive,” Sirius snapped.
“‘你真是太敏感了，’西里斯怒道。”

“Nah, you’re just acting like a prick.” Remus elbowed him, harder than he really meant to.
“‘不，你只是表现得像个混蛋。’雷穆斯肘击了他，比他真正想打的要重。”

Sirius shoved him against the wall, and Remus slipped, grabbing Sirius to steady himself. Furious, he pushed him back. “Wanker.” He said.
“西里斯把他推到墙上，雷穆斯滑了一下，抓住西里斯以稳住自己。愤怒中，他推回了西里斯，‘混蛋。’他说。”

Sirius kissed him.
“西里斯亲了他。”

Sirius kissed like nobody else; languid, firm and unhurried. Remus responded instantly, hands fisting the material of Sirius’s shirt, wanting to run his fingers through the other boy’s hair. But Sirius broke away before he could, stepping back, looking horrified with himself. His lips were pink and shining, slightly parted. Remus had to look away.
“西里斯的吻和其他任何人都不同；懒散、坚定且不急不躁。雷穆斯立刻回应，手握紧西里斯衬衫的布料，想要在另一个男孩的头发中穿梭。但西里斯在他来得及做之前就退开了，脸上露出恐惧的神情。他的嘴唇是粉红色的，微微分开，闪闪发光。雷穆斯不得不移开视线。”

“Remus I’m… shit, I’m sorry. I dunno what keeps happening to me.”
“‘雷穆斯，我……见鬼，我很抱歉。我不知道我怎么了。’”

“S’ok.” Remus said, not meeting his eyes.
“‘没事。’雷穆斯说，不敢直视他的眼睛。”

“You know I’m not a--”
“‘你知道我不是——’”

“Yeah,” Remus said, “Yeah, course. Me neither.” He said it quickly and without thinking. He said it to stop Sirius saying that word.
“‘是啊，’雷穆斯说，‘是的，当然。我也不是。’他快速地说，毫不思索。他这么说是为了阻止西里斯说那个词。”

They were quiet for a bit more. Remus’s heart was racing, he could hardly think straight. He reached out, catching the thin white fabric of Sirius’s shirt between his fingers and tugging it slightly, finally meeting Sirius’s eyes.
“他们又沉默了一会儿。雷穆斯的心跳加速，他几乎无法思考。他伸出手，抓住西里斯衬衫上的薄白布料，轻轻拉了拉，终于与西里斯对视。”

“No one’s gonna find out,” Remus said, quietly, echoing something he had been told once.
“‘不会有人发现的，’雷穆斯低声说，重复了他曾经被告知的某句话。”

Sirius gazed back at him, his eyes burning.
“西里斯回望着他，眼中燃烧着火焰。”

“You won’t say anything?”
“‘你不会说出去的？”’

Remus shook his head as Sirius came a little closer. Remus continued, braver now,
“西里斯靠近了一点，雷穆斯摇了摇头。他现在更勇敢地继续说道，”

“I won’t. We… we don’t have to stop. Unless you want to—”
“‘我不会的。我们……我们不必停止，除非你想要——’”

Sirius kissed him, full on the mouth again. They both knew they had crossed a line, but it couldn’t be helped now, and it was so, so good, and their bodies were hard against each other, hands fumbling with belt buckles, as if they’d known this was the plan all along.
“西里斯再次吻住了他的嘴。他们都知道自己已经越过了界限，但现在已经无法回头，这感觉非常好，他们的身体紧贴在一起，手忙脚乱地摆弄着皮带扣，仿佛他们早已知道这就是计划。”

Once it was over, they clung to each other for long, exhausted seconds. Then Sirius withdrew carefully, stepping back. Remus longed to pull him close again, to never stop. He touched Sirius’s hair one last time, pretending to push it back into place. They stared into each other’s eyes, bold and unashamed for a few short seconds.
“一切结束后，他们长时间地紧紧依偎在一起，疲惫不堪。然后西里斯小心翼翼地退后。雷穆斯渴望再次把他拉近，永远不分开。他最后一次抚摸着西里斯的头发，假装把它整理好。他们对视了几秒钟，大胆而无所畏惧。”

“You’re lovely.” Sirius said, so softly.
“‘你很可爱。’西里斯轻声说道。”

Remus could only smile back gently, he didn’t know what to say. The room had grown cold. “C’mon,” Sirius started buttoning his trousers, looking away, finally, “We’d better finish this cleaning.”
“雷穆斯只能温柔地回笑，不知道说什么好。房间变得寒冷了。‘来吧，’西里斯开始扣上裤子，终于转过头去，‘我们最好把这清理工作做完。’”

Remus nodded, still mute, unable to do much more than lean back against the wall as he watched Sirius wash his hands again, and pick up his mop. The sight of him walking away was too familiar, and Remus burst out,
“雷穆斯点了点头，仍然沉默，无法做更多的事情，只能靠在墙上，看着西里斯再次洗手，然后拿起拖把。他看着他走开的背影，感到太过熟悉，雷穆斯突然开口，”

“You’re not--don’t run off, this time.”
“‘你不是——这次不要跑掉。’”

Sirius looked back, a bit surprised, and a bit something else.
“西里斯回头看了看，有些惊讶，也有些其他的情绪。”

“I’m not going anywhere, Moony.” He spoke gently.
“‘我不会去任何地方的，月亮。’他温柔地说道。”

“Oh, ok. Good, then.”
“‘哦，好吧。那就好。’”

“I felt bad about that. Last time. Sorry.” He was on the other side of the room now, and maybe that made it easier to talk. “But I thought you’d be angry or something. I dunno.”
“‘对此我感到很糟糕。上次。对不起。’他现在在房间的另一边，也许这让谈话变得更容易了。‘但我以为你会生气什么的。我不知道。’”

“No, I wasn’t.”
“‘不，我没有生气。’”

“We’re still friends, aren’t we?”
“‘我们仍然是朋友，对吧？’”

“Of course! We’ll always be friends, Padfoot.”
“‘当然了！我们永远是朋友，垫脚石。’”

Remus was making a promise, though his brain was too foggy to really recognise it at the time.
“雷穆斯正在做一个承诺，尽管当时他的脑袋太混沌，无法真正意识到这一点。”

Sirius had acknowledged, however shyly, that whatever kept happening was probably going to happen again. He had assumed the role he always did – impulsive, expectant and irresponsible. For his part, Remus took up his own mantle – the one who would be responsible. He would keep the secrets; he would accept what he was given; he would be responsible. If those are the things he needs, Remus decided, then those are the things I can give him. It was nothing at all.
“然而，西里斯虽然害羞地承认，无论发生什么事情，可能还会再次发生。他一如既往地扮演着那个角色——冲动、期待和不负责任。就他而言，雷穆斯承担了自己的责任——他将是那个负责的人。他会保守秘密；他会接受他得到的；他会负责。如果这些是他所需要的东西，雷穆斯决定，那就是我可以给他的东西。这毫无意义。”

Brave, Sirius had called him once, in another bathroom, not so long ago. Remus hadn’t known then whether or not he was, really, but he had liked the sound of it at the time, and he liked it even more now. Now, with the taste of Sirius still on his lips, and the echoes of pleasure still settling in his body.
“勇敢，西里斯曾在另一个厕所里这么称呼过他，不久之前。雷穆斯当时不知道自己是否真的勇敢，但他那时喜欢这个称呼，现在他更加喜欢。现在，西里斯的味道仍在他的唇上，快乐的回声还在他身体中回荡。”

 

As he watched Sirius finish sluicing down the far wall, encouraging the water down the drain with his mop, and as he himself worked at the other end, Remus considered how much had changed. He couldn’t help but feel that the future had just become a lot more complicated.
“当他看着西里斯完成冲洗远处的墙壁，用拖把把水引导到排水口，而他自己在另一端工作时，雷穆斯考虑了发生了多少变化。他忍不住觉得，未来突然变得复杂了许多。”

Chapter 101~105Chapter Summary

101. Sixth Year: New Normal (2017-10-16)
102. Sixth Year: Mince Pies (2017-10-17)
103. Sixth Year: Twelve Nights (2017-10-20)
104. Sixth Year: Bad Moon Rising (2017-10-23)
105. Sixth Year: Spilling Secrets (2017-10-25)

Chapter 101: Sixth Year: New NormalOh shadow love was quick and clean, life's a well-thumbed machine

I saw you watching from the stairs, you're everyone that ever cared

Oh lordy, oh lordy, you know I need some loving

I’m movin’, touch me!

John, I'm only dancing

She turns me on, but I'm only dancing

She turns me on, don't get me wrong

I'm only dancing...

 Mid-December 1976

After that, it happened often. He never initiated it; he didn’t need to. Sirius came to him. Remus would find himself pulled into an empty classroom, or their shared bathroom - once or twice Sirius even crept quietly into Remus’s bed, casting a silencing spell before forcing his shoulders down and running his hands over Remus’s body, quaking with desire. Never under the covers though - that would be queer. He would scurry out as soon as it was over.
“之后，这种情况经常发生。他从不主动发起，他也不需要。西里斯会来找他。雷穆斯会发现自己被拉进一个空教室，或他们共用的浴室——有时西里斯甚至悄悄地爬进雷穆斯的床里，施下沉默咒语，然后把他的肩膀按下，双手在雷穆斯的身体上游走，充满渴望。只是在被子下不会——那样就太奇怪了。他一结束就会飞快地跑出去。”

It almost always happened in a hurry. Remus knew that this was partly the shame of it. But he also knew that it was because they both just needed it so badly – when they were together their bodies buzzed with the want for each other.
“几乎总是匆忙地发生。雷穆斯知道这部分是因为羞耻感。但他也知道这因为他们都非常需要这种感觉——当他们在一起时，他们的身体充满了对彼此的渴望。”

No two times were the same. Sometimes they could be confident and bold, other times they were shy, and one needed encouragement from the other. Sometimes it wasn’t even about getting off, and they were limited to just kissing – or at least, Sirius’s idea of kissing, which was brutal, fierce, and thankless. Remus’s lips felt scorched, burned raw, for days and days.
“没有两次是一样的。有时他们可以自信而大胆，有时则害羞，其中一个需要另一个的鼓励。有时甚至不是为了达到高潮，他们只是吻——或者至少是西里斯定义的吻，那是残酷、激烈且没有回报的。雷穆斯的嘴唇感觉像是被烫伤了，几天几天都疼痛。”

Afterwards they didn’t talk about it, but - if time permitted - sat apart from each other and invariably shared a cigarette, silent until they were ready to fall slowly back into their usual jokey banter. Remus felt at those times that Sirius probably would have preferred to be with someone else. A girlfriend or – even worse – James.
“之后他们不再谈论这件事，但——如果时间允许——他们会各自坐开，默默地分享一根烟，直到他们准备好慢慢地回到平常的玩笑谈话中。雷穆斯在那些时刻觉得，西里斯可能会更愿意和其他人待在一起。一个女朋友，或者——更糟糕的——詹姆斯。”

I’m not the one he wants, Remus told himself, pitifully, I’m just the one that’s here. The worst part was that he knew that it was enough. If Sirius only ever came to him in darkness and silence, then so be it. It was better than going without. That someone like me gets to have someone like him.
“我不是他想要的人，雷穆斯可怜地告诉自己，我只是他身边的人。最糟糕的是他知道这已经足够了。如果西里斯只是在黑暗和沉默中来找他，那也就这样吧。比什么都没有要好。像我这样的人能拥有像他那样的人。”

He had to share, of course. Whether it was Sirius’s desire to hide what was going on, or he was simply unable to stay committed to one person, after Avni there were others. A parade of pretty, bright, cheerful girls; Florence and Daisy and Tessa and Eunice. Remus didn’t think any of these trysts were serious, and in the beginning at least, he didn’t begrudge Sirius his fun. I never asked for anything more, he told himself.
“他当然得分享。不论是西里斯想隐藏发生的事情，还是他只是无法对一个人保持忠诚，Avni 之后还有其他人。一队漂亮、明亮、开朗的女孩；弗洛伦斯、黛西、泰莎和尤尼斯。雷穆斯认为这些短暂的关系并不严肃，至少在一开始，他不嫉妒西里斯的乐趣。我从未要求更多，他告诉自己。”

And Remus liked it being private. He had never been someone who liked attention, and he thought that even if it was a given that whatever he and Sirius were doing was no different to what Sirius did with any of the girls he got attached to, then Remus would probably still prefer that James and Peter did not know. Maybe he could have told them about Grant, one day, eventually - but not Sirius. It was too complicated.
“而雷穆斯喜欢这份私密。他从未是那种喜欢引人注目的人，他认为即便他和西里斯所做的事情与西里斯和其他女孩做的事情没有不同，雷穆斯可能仍然更愿意詹姆斯和彼得不知道。也许他可以在某一天、最终告诉他们关于格兰特的事——但不是西里斯。这太复杂了。”

He liked knowing that he and Sirius could be in a room full of people, and no one had a clue what they had been doing only the night before, or even two hours earlier. He liked getting away with it. He liked seeing Sirius with a girl, and thinking never mind, later he belongs to me.
“他喜欢知道他和西里斯可以在一间满是人的房间里，而没人知道他们仅在前一晚，甚至两个小时前在做什么。他喜欢偷偷摸摸地享受这种感觉。他喜欢看到西里斯和一个女孩在一起，并且心想，没关系，稍后他会属于我。”

He was allowed to be happy, after all. He was allowed to have something all for himself - especially as, in other areas in Remus’s life, doors were closing, and things were being taken away.
“毕竟，他允许自己感到快乐。他被允许拥有一些完全属于自己的东西——尤其是在雷穆斯生活的其他领域，门正在关闭，东西正在被夺走。”

There was another werewolf attack during the December moon, which fell early in the month that year. Witnesses described more than one creature - they were working as a pack. The ministry was placed on high alert, and the whole school was talking about it. The marauders didn’t bring it up around Remus - not even Sirius. He couldn’t blame them; he’d have bitten their head off if anyone had tried to sympathise, or be kind about it.
“在12月的月亮期间又发生了一次狼人袭击，那年这个月的月亮来得较早。目击者描述了不止一种生物——它们像狼群一样行动。魔法部进入了高度警戒状态，整个学校都在谈论这件事。食死徒们在雷穆斯面前没有提起这件事——连西里斯也没有。他不能怪他们；如果有人试图同情或对这件事表示友善，他会咬掉他们的头。”

Still, he had to put up with everyone else; every other student in the school who had taken to wearing silver jewellery, or talking about the best way to fend off a wolf attack.
“尽管如此，他还是得忍受其他人；学校里每个戴着银饰的学生，或者谈论抵御狼袭击的最佳方法的人。”

“They ought to round them all up!” He overheard one fifth year telling anyone who would listen in the dining hall one evening. “Keep them locked up, away from normal people!”
“‘他们应该把他们全都抓起来！’他在食堂里听到一个五年级学生对任何愿意倾听的人说，‘把他们关起来，远离正常人！’”

“Why can’t they tag them?” Avni whispered, the next afternoon, when she, Sirius, Remus, Peter and Lily were watching the Gryffindor quidditch team practice. “I mean, there’s already a registry, and they can trace underage wizards - why not put a trace on dangerous animals?! It doesn’t make sense.”
“‘他们为什么不能给他们标记呢？’Avni 在第二天下午低声说，当她、 西里斯、雷穆斯、彼得和莉莉在观看格兰芬多魁地奇队的训练时。‘我的意思是，已经有登记了，他们可以追踪未成年巫师——为什么不对危险动物加一个追踪咒语呢？！这不合逻辑。’”

“They’re not animals,” Lily hissed through gritted teeth, “They’re people.”
“‘他们不是动物，’莉莉咬牙切齿地说道，‘他们是人。’”

Remus kept his eyes on the pitch. So did Sirius.
“雷穆斯将目光保持在球场上。西里斯也是如此。”

“Tell that to the Mundays!” Avni replied, straightening her skirt and giving Lily a superior look, “Tell that to this latest poor family.” She shuffled closer to Sirius on the bench, hugging his arm,
“‘告诉穆迪家的人吧！’Avni 说道，整理着她的裙子，给莉莉一个优越的眼神，‘告诉这最新的不幸家庭。’她在长凳上靠近西里斯，搂住他的胳膊，”

“Sirius, darling, I’m cold…”
“‘西里斯，亲爱的，我冷了…’”

“Go in, then.” He grunted, shaking her off, eyes still on James, shouting something at his keeper.
“‘那就进屋吧。’他咕哝道，推开她，目光仍然在詹姆斯身上，詹姆斯对他的看守喊着什么。”

“Excuse me?” Avni frowned.
“‘什么？’Avni 皱了皱眉头。”

“You heard me.” Sirius replied, offhanded, “Piss off.”
“‘你听见了。’西里斯不在乎地回答道，‘滚开。’”

None of them saw much of Avni after that.
“从那以后，他们几乎没有见到 Avni。”

But it didn’t stop other people talking. Remus had to disband his study group early because they all wanted to know if he could recommend any good books on ‘half breeds’ and defence against dark creatures. In the end all he could do was tell them to talk to the DADA teacher, and if they didn’t want help with actual school work, then they may as well leave him alone.
“但这并没有阻止其他人谈论这件事。雷穆斯不得不提前解散学习小组，因为他们都想知道他是否能推荐一些关于‘半血种’和黑暗生物防御的好书。最后，他只能告诉他们去找黑魔法防御术老师，如果他们不想要实际的学习帮助，那他们可以离开他。”

Lily found Remus working late that night in the common room trying to catch up on the work he’d missed while in the hospital wing after the moon. He was exhausted and sore and extremely prickly but she came over and sat beside him anyway, resting a head on his shoulder, an arm around his back. She smelled nice, and gave him a gentle squeeze, sighing softly against his collar bone. She didn’t speak, but Remus would always be grateful for that.
“莉莉那晚发现雷穆斯在公共休息室里熬夜，试图赶上他在月亮期间错过的工作。他疲惫不堪、酸痛难忍，而且非常敏感，但她还是走过来坐在他旁边，把头靠在他的肩膀上，胳膊环绕在他的背后。她闻起来很好，给了他一个温柔的拥抱，轻轻地叹息在他的锁骨上。她没有说话，但雷穆斯永远感激她。”

In mid-December, matters worsened. Remus received two letters.
“在12月中旬，情况恶化了。雷穆斯收到两封信。”

Dear Remus,
“亲爱的雷穆斯，”

I hope that your sixth year is going well. I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but as you may already know, there was an attack during last night's full moon.
“我希望你第六年的学习进展顺利。我很抱歉要带来坏消息，但正如你可能已经知道的那样，昨晚的满月期间发生了一次袭击。”

[Remus rolled his eyes at this. Why did adults always think that teenagers didn’t read the news? Especially when they were in the middle of a war, and it concerned them directly?!]
“[雷穆斯对这件事翻了个白眼。为什么大人们总觉得青少年不看新闻？尤其是在他们正处于战争中，而这直接影响到他们？！]”

I have no doubt that Professor McGonagall will be speaking to you soon, but I thought I would get in touch. I have been talking to Alastor Moody, who is concerned for your safety. He tells me that you stay with the Potters every year at Christmas. The Potters are excellent people, and I know that James is a close friend, but, Remus, they cannot be relied upon to protect you. They would do everything they could - of this I have no doubt, but my feeling is that if Greyback attempted track you down, then the only place he could not find you would be Hogwarts.
“我相信麦格教授很快会和你谈谈，但我想先联系你。我一直在和阿拉斯托·穆迪谈话，他对你的安全感到担忧。他告诉我你每年圣诞节都和波特一家在一起。波特一家是优秀的人，我知道詹姆斯是你的亲密朋友，但雷穆斯，他们不能指望来保护你。他们会尽一切努力——对此我毫无疑问，但我觉得如果格雷巴克试图追踪你，唯一找不到你的地方就是霍格沃茨。”

I am not telling you what to do, of course. But I am begging you to consider your own safety and the safety of those around you.
“我并不是在告诉你该做什么。当然。但是我恳请你考虑你自己的安全和你周围人的安全。”

Best wishes,
“祝好，”

L. Ferox
“L. 费罗克斯”

Well, Ferox was quite clearly telling him what to do, even if he was just passing on instructions from Moody. Remus’s heart sank when he finished reading this letter, but there was worse to come:
“嗯，费罗克斯显然是在告诉他该怎么做，即使他只是传达穆迪的指示。雷穆斯在读完这封信后，心情沉重，但更糟糕的事情还在后面。”

Mr Lupin,
“卢平先生，”

It has come to our attention that upon your seventeenth birthday next year, you will be of legal age as defined by your society.
“我们注意到，明年你满十七岁时，你将达到社会定义的法定年龄。”

While the law of the United Kingdom states that you are still a child, we have been informed that your circumstances override this legislation.
“虽然英国法律规定你仍然是一个孩子，但我们已经被告知你的情况超越了这项立法。”

As of 10th March 1977, you will no longer be under the care of St Edmund's Boys Reformatory. Any items or financial assets held in trust for you will be returned to you no later than thirty working days following this date. There should be no need for you to return to the premises.
“自1977年3月10日起，你将不再由圣埃德蒙男孩教养院照顾。任何为你保管的物品或财务资产将在此日期后的三十个工作日内归还给你。你不必再回到该机构。”

We wish you the very best in your future endeavours.
“祝你未来一切顺利。”

Sincerely,
“此致，”

Mrs. J. Orwell.
“J. 奥威尔女士。”

Fuck. Remus read this letter only once, then shoved it down into the very bottom of his trunk. He couldn’t think about that now.
“见鬼。雷穆斯只读了一遍这封信，然后把它塞进了行李箱的最底层。他现在不能考虑这个问题。”

He told the marauders about the first letter - omitting the Greyback details, of course. He had to; there was no other way to explain why he could not come to London for Christmas. More time for homework, he told himself. He mightn’t be the only student staying; the seventh years with NEWTs coming up might stick around to take advantage of an empty common room. He could probably enjoy quite a pleasant Christmas in the library, if he wanted to. Plus a Hogwarts Christmas dinner was nothing to turn your nose up at.
“他告诉了食死徒们第一封信的内容——当然省略了关于格雷巴克的细节。他必须这样做；没有其他办法解释他为什么不能去伦敦过圣诞节。他告诉自己这将是更多的家庭作业时间。他可能不是唯一留下的学生；即将参加新魔法考试的七年级学生可能会留在学校，利用空荡荡的公共休息室。如果他愿意的话，他可能会在图书馆享受一个相当愉快的圣诞节。此外，霍格沃茨的圣诞晚餐也是不错的。”

“It’s not bloody fair.” James ranted, when he heard, “You’re no danger to anyone, the full moon isn’t until the new year!”
“‘真不公平。’詹姆斯在听到后怒道，‘你对任何人都没有危险，满月还要等到新年呢！’”

“It’s the pack thing, though,” Remus replied, loosening his tie and flopping down on the bed. It had been a very long day of lessons, and he had at least three hours of homework ahead of him. “They’re worried I’ll get captured or join up or something.”
“‘不过是狼群的事。’雷穆斯回答道，解开领带，瘫倒在床上。今天的课非常长，他还有至少三小时的作业。‘他们担心我会被抓住或者加入他们什么的。’”

“I thought Ferox liked you,” Sirius frowned, dropping his book bag carelessly in the middle of the room, “He ought to know you’d never join them.”
“‘我以为费罗克斯喜欢你呢，’西里斯皱眉道，把书包随意扔在房间中央，‘他应该知道你绝不会加入他们的。’”

“He does know,” Remus said, “But he thinks they might force me or… well, none of us really know what might happen if I met another one…”
“‘他确实知道，’雷穆斯说，‘但他觉得他们可能会强迫我或者… 嗯，我们谁也不知道如果我遇到另一个会发生什么…’”

James, Peter and Sirius exchanged an uncomfortable look. Remus pulled off his itchy school jumper, to give them a moment to think about it. When he resurfaced, his hair fizzing with static, he gave them his biggest grin,
“詹姆斯、彼得和西里斯交换了一个不舒服的眼神。雷穆斯脱下了发痒的校服毛衣，给他们一点时间考虑。当他重新出现时，头发因静电而炸毛，他给了他们一个最灿烂的笑容，”

“It’s fine, anyway, I really don’t mind. It’ll be great to have some peace and quiet; I’m looking forward to a Christmas break from you lot.”
“‘没关系，我真的不介意。能有一段安静的时光太好了；我期待着从你们这些人身上获得一段圣诞假期。’”

James chuckled, and shook his head. He grabbed his maroon quidditch duffle bag,
“詹姆斯笑了，摇了摇头。他拿起了他的深红色魁地奇球袋，”

“None of us believe you, Moony. Right, I’ve got practice, then an hour for homework, then patrolling with Evans.” Anyone else might have reeled off this list of obligations with a weary air of martyrdom. But James looked as though he was having the best day of his life. “Fancy it, Black?”
“‘我们都不相信你，月亮。对了，我有练习，然后一个小时的作业，然后是和埃文斯一起巡逻。’其他人可能会以疲惫的受害者姿态列出这些义务。但詹姆斯看起来就像度过了人生中最美好的一天。‘西里斯，想要加入吗？’”

“Nah, you’re alright, Prongs,” Sirius shook his head. He hadn’t stopped looking at Remus since he’d unbuttoned his school shirt. “You go on, I’ll get a head start on that Charms homework…”
“‘不，没事，鹿角。’西里斯摇了摇头。他自从雷穆斯解开校服上衣的扣子后就没再看他。‘你去吧，我先开始做那个变形学作业…’”

“Yeah, right,” James smirked, “Who is it tonight, Florence again? See you.” He clattered down the stairs, whistling a chirpy tune.
“‘是啊，对了，’詹姆斯冷笑道，‘今晚是弗洛伦斯吗？再见。’他哐啷一声跑下楼梯，吹着愉快的曲调。”

Sirius turned to Peter.
“西里斯转向彼得。”

“You go and watch him then, Pete, if you fancy?”
“‘那你去看看他吧，彼得，如果你愿意的话？’”

“Nah,” Peter shook his head. He looked worryingly comfortable sitting on his bed, leaning against the headboard with his Charms notes scattered before him.
“‘不，’彼得摇了摇头。他看起来坐在床上非常舒适，靠在床头板上，变形学笔记散落在面前。”

“Oh right, you’re probably seeing Dezzie?”
“‘哦，对了，你可能要见德茜？’”

“Nope,” he shook his head, licking the end of his quill nib, “She’s got patrol tonight. And she says we need to get serious about our studies now we’re NEWT students… Can I do my homework with you two?”
“‘不，’他摇了摇头，舔了舔羽毛笔的笔尖，‘她今晚有巡逻任务。她说我们现在是新魔法考试学生了，需要认真对待学习… 我可以和你们一起做作业吗？’”

Remus and Sirius looked at each other. Sirius raised an eyebrow. Remus shrugged. Sirius got up.
“雷穆斯和西里斯互相看了看。西里斯扬起了眉毛。雷穆斯耸了耸肩。西里斯站了起来。”

“I tell you what - I forgot to return that book to the library. Better go and - oh, Moony, while I’m at it, wasn’t there another book you told me I should…”
“‘我告诉你，我忘了把那本书还到图书馆。最好去还了 - 哦，月亮，趁我在这儿，你不是告诉我还有一本书我应该…’”

“Oh, right, yeah!” Remus jumped up too, struggling into a clean woollen jumper, “Er… it’s a complicated title, I’d better help you find it.”
“‘哦，对，对了！’雷穆斯也跳了起来，挣扎着穿上干净的毛衣，‘呃… 这是个复杂的标题，我最好还是帮你找一下。’”

“Oh, do you want to re-locate to the library, then?” Peter asked, finally looking up from his notes.
“‘哦，你们要搬到图书馆去吗？’彼得问道，终于从笔记中抬起头来。”

“No point,” Sirius said, as they both bolted for the door, “Won’t take long…”
“‘没必要，’西里斯说，两人都冲向门口，‘不会花太久的…’”

“Won’t take long?!” Remus muttered, on the stairs.
“‘不会花太久？’雷穆斯在楼梯上嘟囔道。”

“I had to say something!”
“‘我不得不说点什么！’”

They made it through the common room without interference, but once they were outside in the halls, they were a bit lost.
“他们顺利穿过了公共休息室，但一旦到达走廊，他们有点迷失了。”

“What about the fourth floor girl’s--” Sirius started,
“‘四楼女孩的…’西里斯开口道，”

“No.” Remus snapped.
“‘不行。’雷穆斯打断道。”

“Fine. Er… Charms classroom is free, I think? On Fridays Flitwick finishes early and there aren’t any clubs.”
“‘好吧。呃… 我想变形学教室是空的？星期五弗立维克老师早早结束，没有任何社团活动。’”

“How do you know that?!”
“‘你怎么知道的？！’”

“Oh, shut up and follow me,” Sirius smirked.
“‘哦，闭嘴，跟我来，’西里斯笑道。”

They put a basic alarm spell on the door and shoved a desk in front of it for good measure - but Friday afternoons were typically pretty safe; everyone wanted to pretend the classrooms didn’t exist.
“他们在门上施了一个基本的警报咒语，并在门前推了一个桌子以作保险——但星期五下午通常是相当安全的；大家都想假装教室不存在。”

Afterwards, they redressed, smoothed their hair and sat on Flitwick’s desk smoking.
“之后，他们重新穿好衣服，整理好头发，坐在弗立维克的桌子上抽烟。”

“We’re going to actually have to go to the library now.” Remus said, blowing a chain of rings.
“‘我们现在真的要去图书馆了。’雷穆斯说道，吹出一串烟圈。”

“Nah,” Sirius shook his head, “We’re not going there now. We’ve got an hour before dinner and no-one’s around to interrupt us. Plus, I got us some nice butterbeer.” He waved the bottle he’d brought along.
“‘不，’西里斯摇了摇头，‘我们现在不去那里。我们还有一个小时的时间吃晚饭，周围没有人打扰我们。再说了，我还带了一瓶美味的黄油啤酒。’他挥了挥他带来的瓶子。”

“Just don’t get too comfortable,” Remus warned, “I don’t want any trouble if you start getting all…”
“‘只是不要太舒服，’雷穆斯警告道，‘我不想要任何麻烦如果你开始变得…’”

“Now, now, Moony,” Sirius cut him off, “We’re here to study. What else would we be doing?”
“‘好了，月亮，’西里斯打断了他，‘我们是来学习的。我们还能干什么？’”



““We’re going to actually have to go to the library now.” Remus said, blowing a chain of rings.“‘我们现在真的要去图书馆了。’雷穆斯说道，吹出一串烟圈。”

“Nah,” Sirius shook his head, “Just say they didn’t have it in.”
“‘不，’西里斯摇了摇头，‘就说他们没有这本书。’”

“Well that would be fine, except I was actually planning to do my Charms essay this evening…”
“‘那倒没问题，只是我今晚实际上计划写变形学论文…’”

Sirius rolled his beautiful eyes and tossed his beautiful hair. Remus fought the urge to sigh.
“西里斯翻了翻他那双美丽的眼睛，甩了甩他那头美丽的头发。雷穆斯忍住了叹气的冲动。”

The classroom was the same side of the castle as the quidditch pitch. They could hear the faint but shrill sound of James’s captain whistle somewhere below them. Sirius exhaled smoke, wistfully. Remus wondered how much he missed playing quidditch. He wondered if he ought to ask, or whether that would be too much.
“教室在城堡的同一侧，与魁地奇场相对。他们可以听到下面传来的詹姆斯的队长哨声的微弱而尖锐的声音。西里斯怀着怅然的心情吐出烟雾。雷穆斯想知道他有多么想念打魁地奇。他想知道自己是否该问，或者这样是否会太多。”

“Moony, are you definitely not coming for Christmas?”
“‘月亮，你真的不会来过圣诞节吗？’”

“Yeah. I’ve got to trust Ferox. He knows me, he knew my dad.”
“‘是的。我得信任费罗克斯。他认识我，也认识我的父亲。’”

“He knew your dad? You never told us.”
“‘他认识你的父亲？你从未告诉过我们。’”

“I don’t have to tell you lot everything,” Remus gave an irritated twitch, sucking hard on his cigarette. “He worked with him, we had a few chats about it, that’s all.”
“‘我不需要告诉你们一切，’雷穆斯有些烦躁地扭了扭，猛吸着香烟。‘他和我父亲一起工作过，我们聊过几次，仅此而已。’”

“Well, if you trust him then.”
“‘好吧，如果你信任他的话。’”

“I do.” Remus was aware of his tone, but did nothing to temper it.
“‘我信任。’雷穆斯意识到自己的语气，但没有做任何缓和的举动。”

“Ok! I was just going to say…” Sirius swallowed, “Well, I mean, I could stay too. Over Christmas. At Hogwarts. If it’s ok with you.”
“‘好吧！我只是想说…’西里斯咽了咽口水，‘我可以留下来。过圣诞节。留在霍格沃茨。如果你不介意的话。’”

“Oh.” Remus frowned, caught off guard, and turned to look at Sirius. “Do you want to?”
“‘哦。’雷穆斯皱起眉头，被这个意外的提议弄得有些措手不及，转过身来看着西里斯。‘你想这样做吗？’”

“You shouldn’t be stuck all by yourself, James has his family - and Pete, if he gets really desperate.”
“‘你不应该一个人待着，詹姆斯有他的家人——还有彼得，如果他真的非常急需的话。’”

“Yeah, but won’t they expect you? James’s parents? They’re mad about you.”
“‘是啊，但他们不会期望你吗？詹姆斯的父母？他们对你非常热衷。’”

He caught Sirius’s smile at that - a brilliant flash of elation, which made Remus’s heart beat faster.
“他看到西里斯的笑容——那是一种明亮的兴奋，让雷穆斯的心跳加速。”

“They can have a Christmas as a family, for once, without me crashing in. C’mon, Moony, don’t want to share the common room with me? I’ll be quiet and let you study if that’s what you really want.”
“‘他们可以有一次家庭圣诞节，不用让我打扰。来吧，月亮，你不想和我分享公共休息室吗？如果你真的想安静地学习，我会保持安静的。’”

He gave a coy smile, and Remus stubbed out his cigarette, leaned over and kissed him, hard. He still hadn’t really got used to being able to do that.
“他露出一个害羞的笑容，雷穆斯掐灭了香烟，倾身吻了他，吻得很用力。他还没真正习惯可以这样做。”

“As if.” He said, pulling away, revelling in the warm blush in Sirius’s cheeks.
“‘才不是呢。’他一边说着，一边抽身离开，享受着西里斯脸上温暖的红晕。”

 

Chapter 102: Sixth Year: Mince Pies Wednesday 15th December 1976

“Ok, so I probably won’t have time for another one of these until next term,” Remus told his study group, glancing at the nearby grandfather clock. It was almost nine o’clock in the evening. He looked up at their eager faces, and had to look down at his papers again - it was unnerving, commanding that much attention, “But I’m here almost every night anyway, so if you just had some quick questions…”

“‘好的，所以我可能要到下学期才能再开一次这样的课，’雷穆斯对他的学习小组说，一边瞥了一眼旁边的落地钟。现在差不多是晚上九点。他抬头看着他们急切的面孔，又不得不低头看着自己的文件——要求得到这么多的关注让人不安，‘但我几乎每晚都在这儿，所以如果你们有一些快速的问题…’”

“Thanks, Lupin,” the group chorused as they began to tidy up and disband.
“‘谢谢，卢平，’大家一齐说道，开始整理和散开。”

“Happy Christmas,” he nodded, as they dispersed off to their own corners of the common room, or else to bed.
“‘圣诞快乐，’他点头说道，看到他们各自散开到公共休息室的角落里，或者去睡觉。”

He fancied an early night himself. It was the last week of term and he’d pretty much completed all of his work, unless his professors were feeling cruel enough to assign more in the last days before Christmas. He yawned, and stretched, leaning back on his chair with his eyes closed.
“他自己也想早点休息。现在是学期的最后一周，他几乎完成了所有的工作，除非他的教授在圣诞节前的最后几天里觉得很残忍，布置更多的任务。他打了个哈欠，伸展了一下，靠在椅子上，闭上了眼睛。”

“Ahem.” Someone still sitting at the table cleared their throat awkwardly. Remus opened his eyes, embarrassed, and swung forward on his chair.
“‘咳。’一个还坐在桌子旁的人尴尬地清了清喉咙。雷穆斯睁开眼睛，感到尴尬，向前倾了下椅子。”

“Oh, sorry – I thought everyone had gone.”
“‘哦，抱歉——我以为大家都走了。’”

“Sorry,” Christopher replied, clutching a book, “I just wanted to say… Merry Christmas.”
“‘对不起，’克里斯托弗回答，紧握着一本书，‘我只是想说……圣诞快乐。’”

Remus felt an awkward twist of relief and guilt in his midsection. Poor Christopher.
“雷穆斯感到一种尴尬的解脱和内疚。可怜的克里斯托弗。”

“Thanks – Merry Christmas to you, too. Big plans?”
“‘谢谢——你也圣诞快乐。有什么大计划吗？’”

The younger boy shrugged,
“年轻的男孩耸了耸肩，”

“Just family. You?”
“‘只是和家人。你呢？’”

“Staying here.”
“‘留在这里。’”

“Oh. Not by yourself?”
“‘哦。不一个人吗？’”

“Um… Sirius Black is staying too.”
“‘嗯……西里斯·布莱克也会留在这里。’”

“Of course. I heard about the stuff with his family.”
“‘当然。我听说了他和家人的事情。’”

“Mm.” Remus did not want to talk about Sirius with Christopher at all, but least of all about the Black family. Christopher was pureblood too, and likely knew more than Sirius was comfortable with.
“‘嗯。’雷穆斯完全不想和克里斯托弗谈论西里斯，尤其是不想谈论布莱克家族。克里斯托弗也是纯血统的，可能知道的比西里斯更详细。”

“Well,” Christopher made to stand, “See you in January, I s’pose.”
“‘好吧，’克里斯托弗准备站起来，‘我想一月见吧。’”

“Wait!” Remus said, quickly, reaching out but not touching him. Christopher stood up, but looked down on Remus, his eyes hopeful, Remus looked down, “I’m sorry about the way I spoke to you before the summer. I was a right git.”
“‘等一下！’雷穆斯快速地说，一边伸出手却没有触碰到他。克里斯托弗站起身，但俯视着雷穆斯，眼中带着期盼，雷穆斯低下头，‘我为我在夏天之前对你说话的方式感到抱歉。我当时真是个混蛋。’”

Christopher did not dispute this. But he smiled,
“克里斯托弗没有反驳。但他笑了，”

“That’s all right. I hope it wasn’t something I… did?”
“‘没关系。我希望不是我……做了什么事？’”

“No!” Remus shook his head, vehemently. He wished Christopher would sit down. “No, I promise, it was just me being a moody tosser. I had some other stuff going on, I shouldn’t have taken it out on you.”
“‘不是！’雷穆斯坚决地摇头。他希望克里斯托弗能坐下来。‘不，我保证，那只是我情绪不好。我有些其他事情在发生，我不应该发泄到你身上。’”

“Ok. Well... thanks for saying so.”
“‘好的。嗯……谢谢你这么说。’”

Remus smiled, feeling a bit better. Christopher bit his lip, then said, “So… do you fancy a visit to Hogsmeade in the new year? The book shop has a January sale on, or we could just get a butterbeer.”
“雷穆斯微笑着，感觉好了一些。克里斯托弗咬了咬嘴唇，然后说，‘所以……你想在新年去霍格斯梅德吗？书店有一月的折扣，或者我们可以去喝黄油啤酒。’”

“Sorry, Chris, I can’t.” Remus felt horrible, and he saw Christopher’s face fall.
“‘抱歉，克里斯，我不能去。’雷穆斯感到很糟糕，他看到克里斯托弗的脸色黯淡下来。”

“Right. You’re probably going with Potter and Black and… what’s his face.”
“‘明白了。你可能会和波特、布莱克还有……那个叫什么的一起去。’”

“Peter. But I’m not – actually, I can’t go to Hogsmeade, I’m banned.”
“‘彼得。但我没有——其实，我不能去霍格斯梅德，我被禁止了。’”

“Oh. Really?”
“‘哦。真的？’”

“Really,” Remus nodded, earnestly, grateful that he didn’t have to lie.
“‘真的，’雷穆斯认真地点头，感激自己不必撒谎。”

“Is it to do with why you’re not a prefect anymore?”
“‘这跟你为什么不再是级长有关吗？’”

“...Yeah.” Ok, that was a lie, but who was it hurting?
“‘……是的。’好吧，那是个谎言，但又伤害到谁了呢？”

“Wow, ok.” Christopher raised his eyebrows and Remus wasn’t sure if he was impressed, or mildly concerned.
“‘哇，明白了。’克里斯托弗挑起了眉毛，雷穆斯不确定他是感到印象深刻，还是略微担忧。”

“Moonyyyyy!” Sirius’s voice wailed down the stairs from the boy’s dorms, “James is throwing snowballs at me, stop hiiiim!”
“‘月亮——’西里斯的声音从男生宿舍的楼梯上传来，‘詹姆斯在向我扔雪块，快阻止他！’”

Remus laughed, and began getting up.
“雷穆斯笑了起来，开始起身。”

“Snowballs?” Christopher said, wryly, “In your bedroom?”
“‘雪块？’克里斯托弗带着讽刺地说，‘在你的卧室里？’”

“They open the window and scrape it off the roof.”
“‘他们打开窗户，把雪从屋顶上刮下来。’”

“Help us, Moony!” Peter cried, “We need reinforcements!”
“‘救救我们，月亮！’彼得喊道，‘我们需要增援！’”

“I can’t believe you’re friends with that lot,” Christopher said, with a bristle of indignation, “They’re so immature.”
“‘我简直不敢相信你跟那群人是朋友，’克里斯托弗说，带着愤慨，‘他们真是太幼稚了。’”

“So am I,” Remus shrugged, rolling up his sleeves and standing up, “I’m coming, lads!” He yelled at the top of his voice, marching towards the staircase.
“‘我也是，’雷穆斯耸了耸肩，卷起袖子站起身，‘我来了，伙计们！’他在楼梯上高声喊道。”

Sunday 19th December 1976

It was a bitterly cold winter that year, and snow began to fall early over the castle. The marauders used this to great effect, and James perfected a spell which enabled the suits of armour which lined most of the classroom corridors to spit snowballs from their visors at various intervals. Remus liked the cold – or maybe he just liked wrapping up warm and sitting by the fire. In the winter at least no one asked why he wore long sleeves all the time.
“那年冬天非常寒冷，雪开始早早地落在城堡上。玛拉uders们充分利用了这一点，詹姆斯完善了一种咒语，使得大多数教室走廊上的盔甲套能够从面罩中发射雪块。雷穆斯喜欢寒冷——或者说他只是喜欢裹得暖暖的，坐在火炉旁。至少在冬天，没有人会问他为什么总是穿长袖。”

And he was excited – maybe more excited than he had ever been for a Christmas holiday. He loved seeing the Potters, and he loved their house and their village, and being witness to a proper family for once. But to be alone with Sirius for an entire week; that was something he could never have imagined happening, even two months earlier.
“而且他感到兴奋——也许比他以往任何圣诞节假期都更兴奋。他喜欢见到波特一家，他喜欢他们的房子和他们的村庄，还能见证一个真正的家庭。可是能和西里斯独处整整一周；那是他两个月前甚至无法想象的事情。”

They walked James and Peter down to the edge of the grounds – as far as Remus could go.
“他们把詹姆斯和彼得送到场地的边缘——这是雷穆斯能去的最远地方。”

“You sure?” James asked, one last time, “Ferox never said you weren’t allowed, and Mum and Dad honestly wouldn’t mind at all…”
“‘你确定吗？’詹姆斯最后一次问道，‘费罗克斯从未说过你不被允许，爸爸妈妈其实完全不会介意的……’”

“Next year, hopefully,” Remus shrugged, “It might all be over by then. And I couldn’t live with myself if anything happened to your family because of me.”
“‘希望明年吧，’雷穆斯耸耸肩，‘到时候可能一切都会过去。而且如果因为我而发生了什么事，我不能苟且安慰自己。’”

“Black? You’re really going to say no to mum’s mince pies?”
“‘布莱克？你真的要拒绝妈妈做的肉馅饼吗？’”

“Ah, but I’m not, my dear Prongs,” Sirius grinned from behind his red and gold scarf, “She sent some ahead, first thing this morning. I’ve got an entire tin full.”
“‘啊，但我不会，我亲爱的角鹿，’西里斯在红金色的围巾后面咧嘴笑道，‘她今天早上最早就寄来了一些。我有一整罐呢。’”

“Foiled again,” James smirked. He hugged Sirius, and then Remus, who was surprised by it. He couldn’t remember if they’d ever hugged before.
“‘又失败了，’詹姆斯嘴角上扬。他拥抱了西里斯，然后是雷穆斯，雷穆斯对此感到惊讶。他不记得他们以前是否曾经拥抱过。”

“Go on, get on the train, eh?” Sirius punched him in the shoulder, “You’ll have Evans all to yourself…”
“‘快点，赶快上火车，’西里斯拍了拍他的肩膀，‘你可以一个人和埃文斯在一起了……’”

James winked at him, then hurried away, Pete scurrying along behind him, waving to Remus and Sirius. The two boys staying behind stood there for a little while, watching the black cloaked students trudging through the pure white snow, all talking merrily about their plans for the break, the presents they looked forward to, and their eagerness to see their families.
“詹姆斯向他眨了眨眼，然后匆忙离开，彼得在他身后急忙跑来，向雷穆斯和西里斯挥手告别。留在这里的两个男孩站了一会儿，看着穿着黑色斗篷的学生们在纯白的雪地里艰难地行走，他们愉快地谈论着假期的计划、期待的礼物和对见到家人的渴望。”

“Seeya, Remus!” Christopher grinned at him, pink cheeked as he strolled past, “Have a good one!”
“‘再见，雷穆斯！’克里斯托弗笑着对他挥手，脸颊泛红地走过，‘祝你有个愉快的假期！’”

“You too,” Remus nodded, smiling back. He felt much better, now the air had been cleared.
“‘你也是，’雷穆斯点头回应，微笑着。他感觉好多了，现在气氛已经缓解。”

“That kid again.” Sirius murmured, “Who is he?!”
“‘那小子又来了。’西里斯喃喃道，‘他是谁？’”

“I’ve told you before, he’s a fifth year. In my study group.”
“‘我以前告诉过你，他是五年级的。在我的学习小组里。’”

“Right. He looks like a complete drip.”
“‘明白了。他看起来真像个彻底的傻瓜。’”

“He’s ok.” Remus smiled to himself, hoping Sirius didn’t notice.
“‘他还不错。’雷穆斯对自己微笑，希望西里斯没有注意到。”

A nasty voice came from behind them.
“一个讨厌的声音从他们身后传来。”

“What’s wrong, Potters kick you out too?”
“‘怎么了，波特一家也把你赶出来了吗？’”

Remus reached for his wand as they turned, and half expected to see Snape. He was surprised to find that is was Regulus Black standing there in the snow, face pinched with cold.
“雷穆斯在他们转身时伸手去摸他的魔杖，半期望看到斯内普。他惊讶地发现是雷古勒斯·布莱克站在雪地里，脸因寒冷而皱起。”

“No.” Sirius replied, hotly, “I’m just staying here this year.”
“‘没有。’西里斯愤怒地回答，‘我只是今年留在这里。’”

“Why?” Regulus asked, bluntly. He narrowed his eyes at his brother, as if waiting for the punchline.
“‘为什么？’雷古勒斯直接问道。他眯着眼睛看着他的哥哥，仿佛在等待笑料。”

“None of your business, that’s why. Now run along, little Reggie, I’m sure mummy’s waiting.”
“‘这关你什么事，就是这样。现在走吧，小雷吉，我相信妈妈在等你。’”

Regulus tutted, and raised an eyebrow, as if to show that he would not rise to Sirius’s bait. Remus hated it, and clenched his fists, which Regulus either saw, or sensed, because he gave Remus a sharp look, and Remus knew he was remembering their last altercation back in January. The younger boy visibly steeled himself, then spoke directly to Remus,
“雷古勒斯咂了咂嘴，挑起了一只眉毛，仿佛表明他不会上西里斯的当。雷穆斯厌恶这样的态度，紧握着拳头，雷古勒斯要么看见了，要么感觉到了，因为他给了雷穆斯一个锐利的眼神，雷穆斯知道他记得他们去年一月的冲突。年轻的男孩明显地使劲了劲，然后直接对雷穆斯说，”

“Not a prefect any more, Loony Lupin? I wonder why? Something to do with my delinquent brother, perhaps? Surely that greasy half-blood Severus wasn’t telling the truth..?”
“‘不再是级长了，疯疯癫癫的雷穆斯？我想知道为什么？和我那个流氓兄弟有关吗？难道那个油腻的混血斯内普说的是真的……？’”

Remus might have swung for him, if he wasn’t busy stopping Sirius from doing the same. They struggled together in the snow, Sirius snarling,
“如果雷穆斯不忙于阻止西里斯做同样的事情，他可能会挥拳打他。他们在雪地里挣扎，西里斯咆哮着，”

“Take that back you brown nosing little--”
“‘收回你的话，你这个拍马屁的小家伙——’”

Fortunately, Remus was stronger. Regulus walked off, cackling, towards Hogsmeade and the train.
“幸运的是，雷穆斯更强壮。雷古勒斯离开了，发出得意的笑声，朝霍格斯米德和火车方向走去。”

“I can curse him from here.” Sirius growled, once Remus let him go.
“‘我可以从这里咒骂他。’西里斯咆哮道，一旦雷穆斯放开了他。”

“I’d rather you didn’t,” Remus replied. He turned back to the snow-capped castle, “Look,” he encouraged, “We’ve got it practically to ourselves.”
“‘我希望你不要，’雷穆斯回答道。他转身看向雪山覆盖的城堡，‘看，’他鼓励道，‘我们几乎可以完全拥有这里。’”

“Yeah,” Sirius said, distracted, still shooting glanced back at his brother’s footsteps, “C’mon then, let’s go in. Freezing my bollocks off.”
“‘是的，’西里斯分神地说道，仍然回头看着他哥哥的脚印，‘那我们进去吧。冻得我睾丸都麻了。’”

His bad mood lasted until lunch time, when they went down to the Great Hall.
“他的坏心情持续到午餐时间，他们下到大礼堂时。”

“Blimey.” Sirius said, as they entered the room. It was almost completely empty, with only three students – a Slytherin seventh year and two Ravenclaw sixth years – seated at the same table, at the head of the room.
“‘天哪。’西里斯说道，当他们进入房间时。房间几乎完全空了，只有三个学生——一个斯莱特林七年级的和两个拉文克劳六年级的——坐在房间的同一张桌子上。”

“I reckon it’s the war,” Remus whispered, as they approached the table, “Parents want their kids home this Christmas.”
“‘我想是因为战争，’雷穆斯低声说道，当他们走近桌子时，‘父母希望他们的孩子在这个圣诞节回家。’”

“Just you and me, then, Moony,” Sirius grinned, “The orphans of Gryffindor tower.”
“‘那就只有你和我了，月亮，’西里斯咧嘴笑道，‘格兰芬多塔楼的孤儿。’”

Despite the small party, the hall had been decked out in silver and gold, with glistening streamers hanging like angel hair from every rafter, a dazzling tree that seemed to glow from somewhere within its branches, and a flock of jolly red-breasted robins enchanted to circle the room and whistle familiar Christmas tunes. Remus thought that Flitwick had really outdone himself, this year.
“尽管聚会人数很少，礼堂却被装饰得金光闪闪，银色和金色的彩带像天使的发丝一样悬挂在每根椽子上，一棵耀眼的圣诞树似乎从枝条内部发出光芒，还有一群快乐的红胸知更鸟被施了魔法，围绕房间飞翔并吹奏熟悉的圣诞旋律。雷穆斯觉得弗利特维克今年真的做得很出色。”

Sirius sat beside him, rather than across from him, as usual. They didn’t make much conversation with the rest of the party; the two Ravenclaws were obsessively quizzing each other on Arithmancy, and the Slytherin was deep in conversation with Professor Slughorn.
“西里斯坐在他旁边，而不是像往常一样坐在对面。他们和其他人几乎没怎么交谈；两个拉文克劳的学生对算术占卜的问题进行着强迫性的问答，而那个斯莱特林则和斯拉赫霍恩教授深谈。”

“Remember first year?” Sirius said, as the food appeared – the house elves clearly weren’t breaking for Christmas, “It was just you and me for Christmas then, too.”
“‘记得第一年吗？’西里斯说道，当食物出现时——显然，家庭小精灵们没有放假过圣诞节，‘那时也是你和我一起过圣诞节。’”

“Yeah,” Remus smiled at his Shepherd’s Pie, warmed by the memory. He had spent every Christmas with Sirius since he was eleven. “Electric Warrior.”
“‘是的，’雷穆斯对着他的牧羊人饼微笑，温暖的回忆涌上心头。他从十一岁起，每个圣诞节都和西里斯一起度过。‘电气战士。’”

“We’ll have to have a listen, later.”
“‘我们得等会儿听听。’”

They did, too. They stretched out on the rug in front of the fireplace and lay on their backs, playing the album at full volume. Sirius played Monolith twice because he knew it was Remus’s favourite, and Remus tolerated three replays of Jeepster for Sirius’s sake.
“他们确实这样做了。他们在壁炉前的地毯上伸展身体，仰面躺着，把专辑的声音开到最大。西里斯播放了《巨石阵》两次，因为他知道这是雷穆斯最喜欢的，而雷穆斯为了西里斯的 sake，容忍了《吉普车》播放了三遍。”

You slide so good,
With bones so fair,
You’ve got the universe reclining in your hair,
Cuz you’re my babe…
“你滑得这么好，
骨骼如此美丽，
你有整个宇宙在你头发中倾斜，
因为你是我的宝贝……”

Full, warm and content, Remus quietly drifted to sleep to the sound of Marc Bolan’s pretty voice and twanging guitar. He woke up a little later, with a sore back. He turned his head and found he was alone on the carpet, and the record had stopped playing. Sitting up stiffly, Remus looked around for Sirius, who was seated a little way away, curled up in an arm chair, whispering into his compact mirror.
“饱满、温暖而满足，雷穆斯在马克·博兰悦耳的声音和吉他的声音中安静地入睡。稍后他醒来，背部有些酸痛。他转过头，发现自己独自在地毯上，而唱片已经停止播放。僵硬地坐起身，雷穆斯四处寻找西里斯，他坐在离他有点距离的扶手椅上，蜷缩着，低声对着他的便携镜子。”

Remus relaxed, leaning back on his elbows and watched gently for a while, the firelight warming Sirius’s features with a fine glow, softening his sharper angles into supple grecian marble. He was so achingly beautiful. Obviously everybody knew that, Sirius’s beauty wasn't just for Remus, but sometimes it felt like it was. It had nothing to do with wanting Sirius, then, it was something much more. It drove Remus crazy.
“雷穆斯放松下来，靠在胳膊肘上，轻轻地看了一会儿，火光给西里斯的脸庞带来了微弱的光泽，把他的棱角变成了柔软的希腊大理石。他是如此令人心痛的美丽。显然，大家都知道这一点，西里斯的美丽不仅仅是为了雷穆斯，但有时感觉它确实如此。这与想要西里斯无关，而是更多的东西。这让雷穆斯发疯。”

Eventually, Sirius whispered a goodbye to the mirror and snapped it closed. He smiled at Remus, and slowly unfurled, stretching his long limbs out over the sides of the armchair. Remus watched, unmoving,
“最终，西里斯对着镜子低声说了声再见，然后合上了它。他对雷穆斯微笑，慢慢地展开，伸展出长长的四肢，横跨在扶手椅的两侧。雷穆斯看着他，未动。”

“How’s James?”

“Fine,” Sirius replied, that look growing in his eyes that Remus had come to recognise as a signal that something wonderful about to happen. Sirius got up from the chair and sauntered over to Remus. “Misses me, obviously.”

‘‘好极了，’西里斯回答道，他眼中的那种神情越来越明显，雷穆斯已经认识到这是某件美妙的事情即将发生的信号。西里斯从椅子上站起来，悠闲地走向雷穆斯。‘显然很想我。’”

“Obviously,” Remus said, repeating without listening, just watching Sirius’s approach. He towered over him, the fire light now blazing across him like a flare, streaks of gold flickering in his pupils. He sank to his knees astride Remus’s still prone body, and bent forward - not too far; not so far that Remus didn’t have to stretch a little to close that extra space between them. He didn’t mind. It was always worth the effort.
“‘显然，’雷穆斯说道，重复着没有听进，只是看着西里斯靠近。他俯身在雷穆斯仍然平躺的身体上，火光照在他身上像闪光灯一样，金色的光芒在他的瞳孔中闪烁。他跪在雷穆斯的身上，向前弯腰——不是太远；不是让雷穆斯不能稍微伸展一下以弥补他们之间的那段额外空间。他不介意。总是值得付出努力的。”

They were used to each other now – Remus had thought it had been good in the beginning, the very first time – but after a month of secretive exploration they had developed an intimate knowledge that Remus hadn’t known you could have with another person. He felt as attuned to the various movements and reactions of Sirius’s body as he was with his own. He knew the language in every gasp, or tightening, the code in his kisses, or the shapes Sirius traced on his own scarred skin.
“他们现在已经习惯了彼此——雷穆斯曾经认为刚开始时就很好，第一次——但经过一个月的秘密探索，他们已经发展出了雷穆斯从未知道可以与另一个人拥有的亲密知识。他感受到自己对西里斯身体的各种动作和反应的敏感，就像对自己身体一样。他了解每一个喘息声或收紧的语言，了解每一个吻中的密码，或者西里斯在他自己伤疤皮肤上勾勒出的形状。”

It made the moment they parted all the more difficult, though. Sirius would be quiet at first, and Remus would just listen to his breathing, the hitch in his chest, the sighs of overwhelming calm. And he would wait for it.
“然而，这使得他们分开时的时刻更加困难。西里斯一开始会安静，雷穆斯只是听着他的呼吸，胸口的轻微起伏，令人难以抗拒的平静叹息。然后他会等待。”

The laugh, the cheeky grin, the slap on the thigh that told Remus it was over, and they were back to normal.
“笑声，调皮的笑容，大腿上的一巴掌，告诉雷穆斯一切结束了，他们回到了正常。”

“Fancy a mince pie? I’m starving!”“‘想吃个肉饼吗？我饿得不行了！’

There it was. Sirius leapt up, grabbing his jeans and wriggling into them, before waving his wand,来了。’西里斯跳起来，抓住他的牛仔裤，扭动着穿上，然后挥舞他的魔杖

“Accio biscuit tin.” the big royal blue tin came flying down the stairs and came at Sirius so hard it nearly knocked him over. “Oof.”‘‘，‘‘取出饼干盒。’那个大皇家蓝色的罐子飞下来，撞击西里斯的力度大到差点把他撞倒。‘哎哟。’”

“Your wandwork is too broad,” Remus said, buttoning his own trousers and pulling on a t-shirt. Too warm for a jumper.
“‘你的魔杖动作太宽泛了，’雷穆斯说道，一边扣好自己的裤子，一边穿上T恤。太暖和了，不需要毛衣。”

Sirius tossed him a mince pie, sitting back in the armchair, then rubbed his knee, wincing.
“西里斯扔给他一个肉饼，坐回到扶手椅上，然后揉了揉自己的膝盖，微微痛苦。”

“Carpet burn.”
“‘地毯烧伤。’”

“You should see my back.” Remus replied, as if they were discussing the weather. He settled into the sofa opposite Sirius.
“‘你该看看我的背。’雷穆斯回答道，就像他们在讨论天气一样。他坐在西里斯对面的沙发上。”

They ate their pies quietly. When he finished, Sirius licked the sticky fruit off his fingers and brushed the crumbs from his torso.
“他们安静地吃着肉饼。当他吃完后，西里斯舔掉手指上的粘性水果，刷去他躯干上的面包屑。”

“Aren’t you going to put you shirt back on?” Remus enquired, folding the tin from his pie into neat triangular portions.
“‘你不打算穿上你的衬衫吗？’雷穆斯询问道，一边把肉饼的罐子折叠成整齐的三角形。”

“Nah. No one’s here.”
“‘不。这里没人。’”

“Yeah, but still…” Remus made a fruitless gesture. Sirius smirked.
“‘是的，但仍然……’雷穆斯做了个徒劳的手势。西里斯露出了得意的笑容。”

“Prude.”
“‘伪君子。’”

Remus laughed, flicking the folded up tin at him.
“雷穆斯笑了，向他扔去折叠好的罐子。”

“Tart.”
“‘小荡妇。’”

 

Chapter 103: Sixth Year: Twelve Nights 

I sing with impertinence, shading impermanent chords with my words

I borrowed your time, and I’m sorry I called, but the thought just occurred

That we’re nobody's children at all.

After all.

 

 

Thursday 20th December 1976

Sirius sang in the shower. Remus wasn’t sure if this was a new thing, or whether he had been doing it for ages and Remus simply hadn’t noticed – he’d typically been avoiding Sirius’s showering times. Anyway, as Remus dressed, he listened and smiled. He didn’t have a bad voice, really – nothing special, but in tune. He was obsessed with The Doors at the moment, and had perfected an imitation of Jim Morrison’s deep American holler,

“C’mon, c’mon, c’mon now TOUCH ME BAAABE,” he bellowed over the hissing of the taps. It might have been endearing, even alluring, if he didn’t spoil it by singing along with the trumpets, too, “BA-DAH Ba-daah…!”

He exited the bathroom in a fog of steam, his skin flushed, his shirt damp from his hair. “What?” he cocked an eyebrow at Remus, “No applause?”
“‘怎么了？’他挑了挑眉，看着雷穆斯，‘没有掌声吗？’”

Remus rolled his eyes, opening the dorm room door,

“Hurry up, I’m starving…”
“‘快点，我饿了……’”

It felt weird to leave the isolation of Gryffindor tower, where they had already made themselves at home, and to enter the rest of the castle, where everything was the same. They were early to breakfast, and the two Ravenclaws, a girl and a boy, sat closer to them this time.
“离开格兰芬多塔楼的隔离感，进入到整个城堡，感觉有些奇怪，在那里他们已经把自己当作了家。早餐时间他们来的很早，这次两个拉文克劳的学生——一个女孩和一个男孩——坐得离他们更近了。”

“Isn’t it ridiculous that they serve this much food when there are only five students?” The girl, who had large cat-eye glasses and a mass of freckles, remarked, “It seems so wasteful…”
“‘他们只招待五个学生，却提供这么多食物，不觉得很荒唐吗？’那女孩有着大大的猫眼眼镜和一脸的雀斑，她评论道，‘这似乎太浪费了……’”

The plates in front of them had filled with fried eggs, bacon, sausages, black pudding, baked beans, fried tomatoes and toast – not to mention cereal, porridge and fruit juices.
“他们面前的盘子里满是煎蛋、培根、香肠、黑布丁、烤豆、煎番茄和吐司——更别提还有麦片、粥和果汁了。”

“Nah,” Sirius replied, watching Remus pile up his plate, “You’ve clearly never seen Moony here eat.”
“‘不，’西里斯回答道，看着雷穆斯把盘子堆得越来越高，‘你显然从未见过月亮在这里吃东西。’”

“Shut up.” Remus replied, his mouth already full.
“‘闭嘴。’雷穆斯回答道，嘴里已经满满的。”

Still, the Ravenclaws watched, fascinated, until Remus was too embarrassed to eat any more. Fortunately, at that moment a distraction arrived in the form of the morning post owls. One landed in front of Remus. Three in front of Sirius.
“尽管如此，那两个拉文克劳的学生还是看得入迷，直到雷穆斯感到太尴尬而不再继续吃东西。幸运的是，此时早晨的邮递猫头鹰们带来了打扰。一只落在雷穆斯面前。三只在西里斯面前。”

“You’re popular.” The Ravenclaw boy leaned over. He was skinny and smallish, with a beaky nose.
“‘你真受欢迎。’拉文克劳的男孩靠过来。他瘦小，鼻子尖尖的。”

“Don’t encourage him.” Remus said. His own package was soft, and wrapped in lavender coloured paper. It was from Lily, he had no doubt. Sirius had five or six brightly coloured envelopes – none red, Remus noted with relief. No howlers from Walpurga this year.
“‘别鼓励他。’雷穆斯说。他的包裹很软，包裹在淡紫色的纸中。他毫无疑问这是莉莉的。西里斯有五六封鲜艳的信封——没有红色的，雷穆斯松了口气。今年没有沃尔普加的叫骂信。”

“We’re going ice skating before lunch,” the Ravenclaw girl smiled, brightly, “The lake’s frozen over. Want to come?”
“‘我们午饭前去滑冰，’拉文克劳的女孩明亮地笑道，‘湖面都冻上了。想来吗？’”

“Sounds good,” Sirius nodded, tossing his unopened post aside. Remus collected it up before they left the breakfast table, and took it up to the room with them.
“‘听起来不错，’西里斯点头道，把未拆开的信件丢到一边。雷穆斯在他们离开早餐桌前把它们收起来，带到房间里。”

“Are these all Christmas cards?!” He asked, flicking through.
“‘这些全是圣诞贺卡吗？’他问道，一边翻看着。”

“Oh, yeah, I think so.” Sirius shrugged, opening his wardrobe and rummaging through the bottom, pulling out drawers and old shoes he didn’t wear any more.
“‘哦，是的，我想是的。’西里斯耸耸肩，打开衣橱，翻找着底部，拿出抽屉和不再穿的旧鞋子。”

“Who are they from?”
“‘这些是谁寄来的？’”

“Whoever.”
“‘谁知道呢。’”

Remus frowned, then caught sight of something on Sirius’s bedside table. Another pile of unopened cards. He started opening them. Sirius clearly wasn’t interested.
“雷穆斯皱了皱眉，然后看到了西里斯床头柜上的另一堆未拆开的贺卡。他开始拆开它们。西里斯显然不感兴趣。”

‘Dear Sirius, have a wonderful Christmas, lots of kisses, Imelda.’
“‘亲爱的西里斯，祝你圣诞快乐，亲吻很多，伊梅尔达。’”

Hm.
“嗯。”

‘To the boy who holds my heart, merry Christmas and all my love, S.’
“‘给那个拥有我心的男孩，圣诞快乐，所有的爱，S。’”

…

‘Darling Sirius, please meet me in Hogsmeade under the mistletoe for a kiss… and maybe more? Emmeline.’
“‘亲爱的西里斯，请在霍格斯梅德的槲寄生下与我见面，亲吻一下……也许还有更多？艾梅琳’”

‘My raven haired prince, I cannot rest until I am in your arms…’
“‘我的乌发王子，直到我在你怀里我无法安宁……’”

“Sirius.”
“‘西里斯。’”

“What?” Came his muffled response. He was half buried in the back of his wardrobe now, on his hands and knees.
“‘什么？’他的声音从衣橱的后面传来。他现在正趴在地上，半埋在衣柜里。”

“These are all from girls…”
“‘这些全是女生寄来的……’”

“Aha!” He finally reappeared, leaning back on his ankles, holding a pair of ice skates aloft, “I knew I brought a pair during first year.”
“‘啊哈！’他终于露面了，倚靠在脚踝上，举着一双冰鞋，‘我知道我在第一年时带了一双。’”

“Are you telling me your feet haven’t grown since you were eleven?”
“‘你是在告诉我你的脚自十一岁以来没有长大吗？’”

“They have a growing charm on them,” Sirius explained, dusting them off, “They get bigger to fit me. Only the best for the Blacks!”
“‘它们有个成长魔咒，’西里斯解释道，一边擦去灰尘，‘它们会随着我的脚长大。只给布莱克家族最好的！’”

“Clever. These cards, though…”
“‘聪明。不过，这些贺卡……’”

“Oh, those? What’d you open them for? You want to be careful. One of them squirted perfume at me. Perfume.” He pulled a face.
“‘哦，那些？你为什么拆开它们？要小心。有一张向我喷了香水。香水。’他做了个鬼脸。”

“Are these all girls you’ve…?”
“‘这些都是你……’”

“Really, Moony, I’m flattered. As legendary as I’m sure my stamina is, no. They’re just girls. They send me nonsense all the time.”
“‘真的，月亮，我很受宠若惊。虽然我相信我的耐力很传奇，但不是的。她们只是女生。她们总是给我发些废话。’”

“All the time?”
“‘总是吗？’”

“Oh c’mon, what are you, jealous?” Sirius ruffled Remus’s hair, “They’re just cards.”
“‘哦，得了吧，你是吃醋了吗？’西里斯搔了搔雷穆斯的头发，‘他们只是贺卡。’”

“I suppose…”
“‘我想……’”

“Now, let’s get you some skates…”
“‘好了，咱们去找双冰鞋……’”

“I don’t want any, I’ll break my neck.”
“‘我不想要，我会摔断脖子的。’”

“You’ll be fine, I’ll show you how to do it.”
“‘你会没事的，我会教你怎么滑。’”

Remus picked up the pile again and flicked through it.
“雷穆斯再次拿起那堆卡片，翻看起来。”

“There must be twenty here, altogether…”
“‘这些加起来肯定有二十张……’”

“Look, Remus, why don’t we find you a girlfriend, then you won’t be so interested in my love life.”
“‘看，雷穆斯，为什么不找个女朋友呢，这样你就不会那么关心我的感情生活了。’”

“What?!” Remus stared at Sirius. He was being quite genuine, a look of mild concern on his face. Remus’s heart sank. Really?
“‘什么？！’雷穆斯盯着西里斯。他显得很真诚，脸上有一丝轻微的担忧。雷穆斯的心一下子沉了下来。真的？”

“Yeah, I reckon that freckly Ravenclaw likes you. Or Marlene! What about Marlene? She’s pretty, nice. Likes you.”
“‘是的，我觉得那个雀斑拉文克劳喜欢你。或者玛琳！玛琳怎么样？她很漂亮，很友善。喜欢你。’”

“She offered to snog me once,” Remus said, but shook his head, “It was a joke though – Marlene’s not interested in me. I don’t need a girlfriend.”
“‘她曾经主动吻我一次，’雷穆斯说，但摇了摇头，‘不过那是开玩笑——玛琳对我没有兴趣。我不需要女朋友。’”

“Don’t knock it ‘til you’ve tried it,” Sirius winked, “Right, let’s see what we can do about these skates…”
“‘没试过就别说不好，’西里斯眨眼道，‘好了，看看我们怎么处理这些冰鞋……’”

Ice-skating was marginally better than flying a broom, but not much. The lake was completely frozen, but Remus couldn’t shake the thought it might crack at any moment, and kept patting his pocket to check he could reach his wand. Sirius, obviously, was a natural. So was the Ravenclaw boy – Arnold – and the pair of them were soon racing each other up and down the length of the ice. Remus watched them, nervously, trying not to wobble.
“滑冰比骑扫帚稍微好一点，但也没好多少。湖面完全冻结，但雷穆斯无法摆脱它随时可能裂开的想法，不断拍打自己的口袋，确保能拿到魔杖。显然，西里斯天生就擅长滑冰。拉文克劳的那个男孩——阿诺德——也一样，他们俩很快就在冰面上相互竞速。雷穆斯紧张地看着他们，尽量不让自己摇晃。”

“Here,” the freckly girl – Tina – glided over to him, smiling kindly, “Put your hands on my shoulders if you want, and watch my feet,”
“‘在这，’那个有雀斑的女孩——蒂娜——滑到他身边，亲切地笑道，‘如果你愿意的话，把手放在我的肩膀上，看着我的脚。’”

He did so, gratefully, standing behind her as she dragged him steadily around in a small circle. He thought he was getting the hang of it.
“他感激地照做了，站在她身后，她稳稳地将他拖动在一个小圈子里。他觉得自己开始掌握了要领。”

“I wonder if the squid’s ok…” he said, after they’d been a bit too quiet for a while.
“‘我在想那个章鱼还好吗……’他说道，过了一会儿他们变得有点太安静了。”

“Ugh, I never even thought about that. Does it hibernate, do you think?” Tina peered down at the ice with some interest, “I don’t think I’ve actually ever read anything about the squid.”
“‘呃，我从没想过这个。你觉得它会冬眠吗？’蒂娜好奇地低头看着冰面，‘我好像从来没读过关于那个章鱼的任何东西。’”

“Me neither.” Remus replied, letting go of her shoulders and attempting to do a few meters unaided. “Professor Ferox liked it, though, I saw him feeding it once.”
“‘我也没有。’雷穆斯回答道，放开她的肩膀，试图自己滑几米。‘不过费罗教授喜欢它，我曾见过他喂它一次。’”

“Really?” She looked up at him, earnest and curious, “What did he feed it?”
“‘真的？’她抬头看着他，真诚而好奇，‘他喂它了什么？’”

Remus shrugged,
“雷穆斯耸了耸肩，”

“No idea. Something nasty looking.”
“‘不知道。看起来很恶心的东西。’”

“I miss Ferox,” she sighed, “He really brought his lessons to life. I ended up dropping Care of Magical Creatures. Taking an extra course in Goblin Finance, instead.”
“‘我想念费罗教授，’她叹息道，‘他真的让课程变得生动。我最后选择了放弃神奇生物护理，改修了一门额外的课程——高傲金融。’”

“Oh, that sounds… er… interesting.”
“‘哦，那听起来……呃……有趣。’”

“It is,” she nodded, without a trace of irony, “I can lend you a book, if you like?”
“‘确实有趣，’她点头道，没有一点讽刺的痕迹，‘如果你愿意的话，我可以借给你一本书？’”

“Er… thanks…”
“‘呃……谢谢……’”

After lunch, Remus and Sirius returned to the tower. Remus noticed that the pile of cards had disappeared, but he didn’t mention it. He lit the small bedroom fire and looked for a thicker jumper to wear,
“午饭后，雷穆斯和西里斯返回了塔楼。雷穆斯注意到那堆贺卡已经消失了，但他没有提及。他点燃了小卧室的火炉，找了一件厚一点的毛衣穿上，”

“Still cold?” Sirius asked, yawning.
“‘还冷吗？’西里斯问道，打了个哈欠。”

“Freezing.” Remus replied, pulling on a second pair of socks and raising his hands to the fire.
“‘冻得很。’雷穆斯回答道，一边穿上第二双袜子，一边将手伸向火炉。”

“Should have moved about a bit more, gets the blood pumping. Still,” his tone changed; turned sly and teasing, “You had a nice chat with freckles?”
“‘应该多活动活动，这样能让血液流动。话说回来，’他的语气变了，变得狡黠和戏弄，‘你和雀斑聊得不错吗？’”

“Tina. She’s interested in Goblin Finance.”
“‘蒂娜。她对高傲金融感兴趣。’”

“Excellent, you can marry rich.”
“‘太好了，你可以嫁得好。’”

Remus threw a slipper at him.
“雷穆斯扔了个拖鞋向他。”

“Oi!” Sirius barked with laughter, “I’m just trying to help you get out a bit, Moony, you ought to have other interests outside of that bloody study group.”
“‘哎！’西里斯笑着叫道，‘我只是想帮你多出去一下，月亮，你应该有其他的兴趣，而不仅仅是那个该死的学习小组。’”

“I think, if anything, I would be doing more studying if I started going out with Tina. Which I’m not going to.” Remus blew into his cupped hands, then held them up to the fire again. The cold just seemed to seep in and settle there.
“‘我觉得，如果真的这样的话，我会更专注于学习，而不是和蒂娜约会。我是不打算的。’雷穆斯对着双手吹气，然后再次伸手向火炉。寒冷似乎渗透进来，停留在那里。”

He turned to look at Sirius, who was leaning against his headboard, staring. His lips curled into a wicked smile.
“他转过身看着西里斯，西里斯靠在床头板上盯着他看。他的嘴角露出一个邪魅的笑容。”

“Bed’s warm…”
“‘床很暖和……’”

 

 

Friday 21st December 1976

“Bloody Regulus.”
“該死的雷古勒斯。”

“It was two days ago, get over it.”
“那是兩天前的事了，別再糾結了。”

“He’s such a prick.”
“他真是個混蛋。”

“I know. Left a bit!”
“我知道。稍微往左一點！”

“I can’t go any further left, there’s no room.”
“我不能再往左移了，沒地方了。”

“Careful! Not there…”
“小心！不是那裡…”

“Oops. Anyway, you should have let me hit him.”
“哎呀。不管了，你應該讓我打他一拳。”

“You weren’t going to hit him, you were going to break a knuckle. You can’t punch.”
“你根本不會打他，你只是要打斷你的指關節。你不能打架。”

“Yes I can!”
“我可以！”

“No, you can’t. Look, can you please concentrate? You keep missing.”
“不，你不行。看，你能不能專心點？你總是打不中。”

“I’ve punched loads of people – oops, sorry…”
“我打過很多人——哦，對不起……”

“You’ve play-fought with James. Not the same thing.”
“你和詹姆斯打過玩鬧，不一樣的。”

“Oh, and you know how to punch, do you Moony?”
“哦，你知道怎麼打拳，對嗎，月亮？”

“Yeah, I do, actually – aha, I win!”
“嗯，其實我知道——哈哈，我贏了！”

“It’s not fair. Can’t we get closer?”
“這不公平。我們不能靠近一點嗎？”

“No, that’s cheating.”
“不，那是作弊。”

“Oh fine, I forgot you were a stickler for rules, Prefect Lupin…”
“哦，算了，我忘了你是個死板的規則控，盧平長官……”

Remus folded his arms and let Sirius rant. He had won fair and square. They’d been playing this new game for about two hours now, and Remus was by far the best at it. He had never beaten Sirius at anything on the first go. It was an excellent feeling, and he was going to lord it over him.
雷木斯抱著手臂，讓小天狼星發牢騷。他贏得光明正大。他們已經玩這個新遊戲大約兩個小時了，而雷木斯顯然是最厲害的。他從未在第一次嘗試中擊敗過小天狼星。這種感覺非常棒，他打算好好炫耀一番。

The game involved levitating various items they’d found in the common room – gobstones, chocolate frogs, quills, slippers – and firing them at speed through the ‘goals’, constructed by cutting various sized holes in Peter and James’s bedsheets, which they had strung up across the common room, dividing it. (Remus had had reservations about cutting up his friend’s sheets out of boredom. But Sirius had reasoned that they couldn’t very well cut holes in their own bedsheets, which were in use.)
這個遊戲涉及到將他們在公共休息室找到的各種物品——如魔法石、巧克力青蛙、羽毛筆、拖鞋——懸浮起來，並以高速射穿‘目標’，這些目標是通過在彼得和詹姆斯的床單上剪開各種大小的洞來構建的，他們把床單掛在公共休息室裡，分隔開來。（雷木斯對於無聊而剪壞朋友的床單有些保留。但小天狼星認為，他們不可能在自己正在使用的床單上剪洞。）

The best part was that they never had to tidy up. Once they had got everything through the goals, all they needed to do was walk through the sheets and start again on the other side. This they began to do now, crossing to the half of the room with the fireplace in it. It was cosy.
最棒的部分是他們不必打掃。當他們把所有東西都通過目標後，他們只需要穿過床單，再從另一邊開始。現在他們開始這麼做，走向房間有壁爐的一半。那裡很溫暖舒適。

“I wonder if this is what camping is like,” Remus said, thoughtfully.
“我在想這是否就是露營的感覺，”雷木斯沉思地說。

“Never been.” Sirius replied. “James thought it was funny our family never did it.”
“從未去過。”小天狼星回答，“詹姆斯覺得我們家從來沒有露營很有趣。”

“I always wanted to.” Remus mused, beginning to levitate a crystal ball someone had carelessly let roll under the couch. “But I liked the idea of anywhere that wasn’t St. Edmund’s.”
“我一直想去。”雷木斯思索道，開始懸浮一個有人隨意滾到沙發下的水晶球。“但我喜歡任何不是聖埃德蒙德斯的地方。”

He frowned, slightly, having surprised himself. Why had he brought up St. Edmund's? He never talked about it in front of anyone at Hogwarts. Sirius didn’t seem fazed.
他稍微皺起眉頭，感到有些驚訝。為什麼他提起了聖埃德蒙德斯？他從未在霍格華茲的人面前談論過它。小天狼星似乎並不在意。

“Yeah, I don’t blame you.” He said, then, glancing at the floating crystal ball, “You’re going to smash that.”
“是啊，我不怪你。”他說道，然後瞥了一眼懸浮的水晶球，“你會把它弄碎的。”

“No I’m not, I'm aiming at the big settee.” Remus demonstrated, reeling back his wand and then flicking it, sending the crystal ball whizzing through the very smallest hole, landing with a quiet ‘thump’ on the other side. Remus smirked at Sirius, who, shook his head in disbelief.
“不，我不會，我瞄準的是那個大沙發。”雷木斯展示道，他將魔杖收回，然後輕輕一揮，讓水晶球穿過最小的洞，靜靜地落在另一邊。雷木斯對小天狼星露出得意的笑容，小天狼星則難以置信地搖頭。

“It’s scary how good at this you are. Get you on a broom and you’d make a bloody good chaser.”
“你在這方面的表現真是太驚人了。讓你騎上飛天掃帚，你會成為一個了不起的追球手。”

“No, thanks. Your go.”
“不用了。輪到你了。”

Sirius selected a gobstone. They were easier to levitate, but much harder to aim. He was terrible at understanding his own limits.
小天狼星選了一顆魔法石。它們更容易懸浮，但瞄準起來難度更大。他很難了解自己的極限。

“Did you play that muggle game, at St Edmund’s?” Sirius asked, casually, firing the gobstone too hard and missing the sheet altogether, sending it over the top.
“你在聖埃德蒙德斯時玩過那個麻瓜遊戲嗎？”小天狼星隨意地問，結果將魔法石射得太用力，完全錯過了床單，飛過了上面。

“Foul.” Remus said, “What muggle game?”
“犯規。”雷木斯說，“什麼麻瓜遊戲？”

“With all the running about and kicking. We saw them playing it when we… er, over the summer.”
“那些跑來跑去和踢球的。我們在……呃，暑假時看到他們玩。”

“Oh. Football. No, I never liked it. Had too many bruises already.”
“哦，足球。不，我從來不喜歡它。已經有太多瘀傷了。”

“Yeah, sorry, I didn’t think. Of course.” Sirius went a bit quiet after that. Remus knew him well enough to recognise that he was building up to something - a question, or a declaration. In the meantime, Remus started shooting quills like darts through each hole in the sheets. Finally, Sirius had gathered up whatever courage he needed, or prepared whichever words. “Is it really awful, living there?”
“是啊，對不起，我沒想到。當然。”小天狼星在那之後變得有些安靜。雷木斯對他了解得夠多，能夠認出他在為某事做準備——一個問題，或一個宣告。與此同時，雷木斯開始像射飛鏢一樣射羽毛筆穿過每個床單上的洞。最後，小天狼星鼓起了所需的勇氣，或準備了那些話。“那裡生活真的很糟糕嗎？”

Remus lowered his wand. He hadn’t ever complained about St Edmund’s - not in front of the marauders, or anyone, except for Grant, because Grant knew. He was about to say ‘Nah, it’s fine, really’, and shrug it off - but something stopped him. That was a lie, and there was no need to lie, just now.
雷木斯猶豫了一下，就像每次討論聖埃德蒙德斯時一樣。他從未明白為什麼人們覺得打探這種事是可以的。對他來說似乎是如此私人的事情。但他試圖誠實地回答。

“It’s… not awful, but it is… noisy. You always have to watch your back, and no one really cares about you, much. They have to make sure you don’t die, or get arrested, or starve or whatever, but they don’t actually care.”
“那裡……不是糟糕，但的確……很吵。你總是要提防，沒有人真的關心你。他們要確保你不會死掉，不會被逮捕，不會餓死什麼的，但他們實際上不在乎。”

He wasn’t in the mood to play any more. he reached into his back pocket and pulled out his cigarettes, lighting one with his wand tip, then tossing the box to Sirius. Sirius just held it, running his thumb over a loose bit of foil poking out from the join in the hinge.

“I know how that feels,” he murmured. That was all he said, and it was enough, at the time. He quickly looked up and grinned, “Look what I can do!”
“我知道那種感覺。”他低聲說道。這就是他當時要說的全部。他迅速抬起頭，笑道：“看看我能做什麼！”

He slid a cigarette out of the packer and placed it between his lips. A look of concentration flashed in his eyes for a moment, then he snapped his fingers, and the cigarette lit itself. His grin widened around the fag, and he looked at Remus for praise.

“Blimey,” Remus smiled, “Clever you.”
“哇，”雷穆斯微笑道，“你真聰明。”

 

Saturday 22nd December 1976

“What are you doing?”

“What’s it look like?” Remus replied sternly, over the top of his textbook. He’d spent a peaceful few hours all by himself in bed, until Sirius had marched in smelling of snow and hot chocolate. He’d gone ice skating again, and Remus had begged off this time, looking for some quiet.

“你在做什麼？”

“你看起來像在讀書。”雷木斯嚴厲地回答道，翻過書本的上面。他在床上獨自度過了幾個平靜的時光，直到小天狼星進來，身上帶著雪和熱巧克力的味道。他又去滑冰了，而雷木斯這次請假，想找些安靜的時光。

“You’re not studying at Christmas?!” Sirius flopped down beside him on the bed, looking scandalised.

“你在聖誕節不學習嗎？！”小天狼星在床邊一屁股坐下，表情驚訝。

“It’s not Christmas, it’s not even Christmas eve, it’s just a normal day. And I like reading, thank you very much.” Remus shifted away from him, rolling back and raising the book over his head to read.

“這不是聖誕節，甚至不是聖誕前夕，只是一個普通的日子。我喜歡閱讀，謝謝你。”雷木斯挪開了位置，翻回來，把書本高舉過頭來閱讀。

“How times have changed, eh Moony?” Sirius chortled, pulling off his socks and thick woollen jumper.

“時光如何變遷，嗯，月亮？”小天狼星咯咯笑著，脫下他的襪子和厚毛衣。

It was one the Potters had bought him - this year Sirius’s clothes had been much more practical and comfortable than before - hardly anything specially tailored or finely cut now. He was still very obviously an aristocrat, born and bred - that was clear in his bearing, in every enunciated phrase he spoke. But he was happier, and that showed just as much. “I remember a boy who hated reading, and homework, and--”

這是波特家族買給他的——今年小天狼星的衣服比以前實用多了，舒適多了——幾乎沒有什麼特別訂製或精緻裁剪的衣物。他仍然非常明顯是個貴族，從他的舉止、他所說的每一句話都可以看出。但他更幸福了，這也同樣明顯。“我記得有個小男孩討厭閱讀，討厭作業，還有——”

“Mm, and I remember someone who loved it, and came top in every subject…” Remus turned to him, finally. “What happened, didn’t like the competition?”

“嗯，我記得有個人喜歡這些，並且在每一門科目中名列前茅……”雷木斯終於轉向他。“怎麼了，不喜歡競爭了嗎？”

“Pfft. I could run rings around the lot of you, if I wanted to.” This wasn’t a boast. Sirius had always been exceptional when it came to intuitive magic, and intensely diligent at research - when it suited him.

“噗。我可以在你們所有人面前跑來跑去，如果我想的話。”這不是自誇。小天狼星在直覺魔法方面一直非常出色，而且在研究方面非常勤奮——當它適合他的時候。

“So why don’t you?”

“那為什麼不呢？”

“Rather do other stuff,” he shrugged.

“寧願做其他事情。”他聳了聳肩。

The conversation had hit a dead end - that hardly ever happened with Sirius, unless you brought up his family. And this certainly had something to do with the Blacks - or at least Sirius thought it did. They wanted him to be in Slytherin, so he ended up in Gryffindor. They wanted him to be a good pureblood heir, so he befriended the Potters and ran away. They wanted him to get the best marks in his exams to prove that purebloods were better than anyone else - so he used his talents exclusively in ways that would annoy them.

談話陷入了僵局——這種情況幾乎從未發生在小天狼星身上，除非你提到他的家人。這肯定與布萊克家族有關——至少小天狼星這麼認為。他們希望他進入斯萊特林，所以他最終進入了格蘭芬多。他們希望他成為一個好的純血繼承人，所以他結交了波特家族並逃跑了。他們希望他在考試中獲得最佳成績，以證明純血比其他人更優越——所以他將他的才華專門用於令他們不悅的方式。

Remus returned to his book. Two lines down, Sirius gave a long sigh.

雷木斯回到了他的書本上。兩行下，小天狼星長嘆了一口氣。

“I’m bored.”

“我無聊。”

“Go and play chess with the dynamic duo.” Remus replied, re-reading the second line.

“去和那對活力四射的雙胞胎下棋吧。”雷木斯回應道，再次閱讀第二行。

“Ugh, not that bored. Spent all morning with them. They’re ok, but merlin, everything’s so literal.”

“呃，沒那麼無聊。我和他們一起度過了整個早晨。他們還好，但天啊，一切都這麼字面。”

“Talk to James then.”

“那就找詹姆斯聊聊。”

“He’s got family visiting, or something. We’re talking after dinner. Anyway, not in the mood for talking.”

“他有家人來訪，還是什麼的。我們晚餐後再聊。無論如何，我不想聊天。”

Remus put down his book.

雷木斯放下了書本。

“Oh?”

“哦？”

“I don’t want to disturb you, though.” Sirius said, innocently, edging closer.

“我不想打擾你。”小天狼星說，無辜地靠近一些。

“It can wait.”

“可以等一下。”

Sunday 23rd December 1976

“Show me how to throw a punch, then?”

“那就教我怎麼揮拳吧？”

“Seriously?!” Remus sighed,

“真的？！”雷木斯嘆了口氣，

“Deadly Sirius.” The other boy waggled his eyebrows. Remus groaned. “Oh, go on,” Sirius laughed at his face, “Show me! Teach me something, Professor Lupin.”

“致命的小天狼星。”另一個男孩揚起了眉毛。雷木斯呻吟著。“哦，快點吧，”小天狼星對著他的臉笑，“教我！教我一些東西，盧平教授。”

They were lounging in their pyjamas, in the common room. Gryffindor tower was still being cleaned nightly by the house elves, but the funny little creatures had had the sense to leave up the ‘goal’ sheets, even if they’d tidied away all of the projectiles. The effect was that of a weird screen blocking out the windows on the other side, except for five pools of winter sunlight which streamed in through the cut out holes.

他們穿著睡衣，躺在公共休息室裡。格蘭芬多塔樓仍然在夜間由家養小精靈清理，但那些有趣的小生物有點智慧，留下了‘目標’的布單，即使他們已經清理了所有的投擲物。效果就像是一個奇怪的屏幕，擋住了另一邊的窗戶，除了五束冬日陽光從切口處射入。

“Ok, but you need something to hit that you won’t hurt yourself on.”

“好吧，但你需要一個打擊的東西，這樣你就不會傷到自己。”

They ended up finding an empty bit of wall and performing a softening charm on it. Sirius stood there, eagerly, awaiting instruction. “Make a fist.” Remus said. “No, ok, not like that… yeah, put your thumb there, unless you want it broken. Ok, now you want it at shoulder level… yeah, then… er…”

他們最終找到了一塊空曠的牆壁，對它施了柔化咒。小天狼星站在那裡，急切地等待指示。“握緊拳頭。”雷木斯說。“不，不是那樣……對，把你的拇指放在那裡，除非你想把它弄斷。好，現在把它保持在肩膀水平……對，然後……嗯……”

Remus eventually resorted to demonstrating a few times on the wall, before physically repositioning Sirius’s arms in order to get the angle right, “Legs apart, don’t lean forward so much… ok, try it now…”

雷木斯最終只好在牆上演示了幾次，然後實際上調整小天狼星的手臂位置，以便調整角度，“雙腿分開，不要前傾太多……好，現在試試看……”

It took about twenty minutes, but in the end Remus deemed Sirius at least competent enough to give a black eye.

“Where’d you learn this?” Sirius panted, elated with his success.

“St Edmund’s.”

“Oh, yeah…” He ducked his head.

“No, not like that,” Remus shook his head quickly, realising that Sirius was probably imagining him squaring off against a group of huge, tough muggles. “Some of the older boys taught me, a few summers ago. They were all a bit rough, liked a fight, but they were nice to me.”
“不是那樣的，”雷穆斯迅速搖頭，意識到小天狼星可能想像自己和一群巨大而強壯的麻瓜對峙。“幾個夏天前，一些高年級的男孩教過我。他們有點粗暴，喜歡打架，但對我很好。”

“Ah,” Sirius’s eyes gleamed with the light of understanding, “Was this the year you began your foray into organised crime?”

“My what?! Oh, yeah, the fags. Yep, that summer.”

“I’ll never forget you stomping onto the train in those boots.”

“Ugh, don’t,” Remus covered his eyes with his hands. He cringed every time he remembered the way he had acted, “I was so obnoxious.”
“啊，”小天狼星的眼睛閃爍著理解的光芒，“這是你開始涉足有組織犯罪的那一年嗎？”

“我什麼？！哦，對了，那些吸煙的。對，那個夏天。”

“我永遠不會忘記你穿著那些靴子踩上火車的樣子。”

“噫，別說了，”雷穆斯用手捂住了眼睛。他每次記起自己當時的行為都感到不安，“我當時太討厭了。”

“I didn’t think so. Anyway, you had good reason.” Sirius rubbed his knuckles. They looked red from hitting the wall so many times, and Remus fought the urge to take Sirius’s hand in his own and kiss every finger. “Did you, er… ever learn anymore about Greyback?” Sirius asked, tentatively, snapping Remus out of his daze.

“Yeah, bits and pieces.” He didn’t want to clam up, but he did anyway, sitting down again and picking up a newspaper, just to have something to hold.

“Moony, I know you hate talking about him. It.”
“我不這麼認為。反正，你有充分的理由。”小天狼星揉了揉他的關節。他們看起來很紅，因為打了那麼多次牆，雷穆斯努力抑制住把小天狼星的手握在自己手中的衝動，親吻每一根手指。“你，呃……有沒有了解更多關於格雷巴克的事？”小天狼星試探性地問道，把雷穆斯從恍惚中喚醒。

“是的，一些零碎的消息。”他不想閉口不言，但他還是這麼做了，重新坐下來，拿起一份報紙，只是為了有東西可以握著。

“You don’t think… the attacks over the last few months...”
“月，這幾個月的攻擊…”

Remus looked up at him, just to check his expression. He looked anxious, but not frightened. At least, not of Remus.

“Yeah,” he confirmed with a curt nod, “It was him. Moody told me.”

“Shit.”

“Yeah. Shit.”
雷穆斯抬頭看著他，只是為了檢查他的表情。他看起來焦慮，但不害怕。至少，對雷穆斯而言。

“是的，”他簡短地點頭確認，“是他。穆迪告訴我的。”

“該死。”

“是的。該死。”

“You don’t think he’d come after you?”

“Don’t see why he would.” The barefaced lie should have shocked him, or at least caused a pang of guilt. But this was justified, Remus told himself, this was to protect his friends. He touched the scar on his side over the top of his pyjamas. The fabric was thin, and if he pressed lightly he could feel the dimples and puckers in his flesh made by those dreadful teeth. “It’s not like he can do anything else to me now. The worst’s already happened.”
“你不認為他會來找你嗎？”

“我看不出為什麼他會。”這個厚顏無恥的謊言本該讓他感到震驚，或至少讓他感到一陣內疚。但這是合理的，雷穆斯告訴自己，這是為了保護他的朋友。他摸了摸自己睡衣上的傷疤。布料很薄，如果輕輕地按壓，他可以感覺到那些可怕的牙齒在肉體上留下的凹痕和皺紋。“他現在也不可能再對我做什麼。最糟糕的已經發生了。”

“Moony.”

It wasn’t a question or a request, and they both let it hang in the air.
“月。”

這不是問題或請求，他們都讓這句話懸在空中。

Monday 24th December 1976

“Do we have any weed?” Sirius asked as they walked back from breakfast on Christmas Eve. They’d dodged yet another chess tournament with the Ravenclaws. Remus didn’t actually mind the idea, but Sirius had decided they were intensely boring and not to be tolerated.

“When you say ‘we’,” Remus replied, dryly, “Do you mean me?”

“Fine, do you have any weed?”

“No.”

“But you know where some is.”

“Maybe.”

“That’s my little delinquent. C’mon then, show me.”

Remus sighed,

“We’d have to go outside, to the greenhouses - and probably smoke it there too, I don’t want the house elves getting a whiff. It’s too cold, I’d rather not.”
“我們有大麻嗎？”小天狼星在聖誕前夕從早餐回來的路上問道。他們又一次躲過了與拉文克勞的棋藝比賽。雷穆斯其實不介意這個主意，但小天狼星已經決定他們非常無聊，不能容忍。

“當你說‘我們’時，”雷穆斯乾巴巴地回答，“你是指我嗎？”

“好吧，那你有大麻嗎？”

“沒有。”

“但你知道在哪裡。”

“也許吧。”

“那是我的小流氓。來吧，帶我去找。”

雷穆斯嘆了口氣，

“我們得去外面，去溫室 - 可能還得在那裡抽，我不想讓家養小精靈嗅到。太冷了，我不想去。”

“Come on, Moony. You haven’t been outside in ages!”

“I know, that was deliberate.”

“Come on.” Sirius was dragging him by the sleeve now, and because there wasn’t much else to do, and he did quite fancy a spliff, Remus allowed it. They summoned their cloaks and left the castle, hurrying through the thinning sheet of snow down to the greenhouses. Behind them, buried in a tin box, Remus unearthed the illicit buds, wrapped up in twists of brown paper. He would have to pay back whoever it belonged to - if they found out, of course.
“來吧，月。你很久沒出去過了！”

“我知道，那是故意的。”

“來吧。”小天狼星現在拉著他的袖子，因為沒什麼其他事情可以做，而且他確實很想抽根煙，雷穆斯也就讓了。他們叫了披風，離開了城堡，急匆匆地穿過變薄的雪層，前往溫室。在他們身後，雷穆斯從一個鐵盒中挖出非法的大麻花苞，用棕色紙包裹著。他需要償還給任何擁有它的人——如果他們發現的話，當然。

The greenhouses themselves had no snow on the roofs; being warm enough inside.

“We could go in there?” Sirius suggested, shivering.

“Are you mental? Spout comes down here twice a day to check on the mandrakes. It has to be somewhere else.”

“The shack?”

“Fuck that.” Remus growled, without thinking. Sirius looked at him, surprised, and he shook his head, apologetically, “I hate it there. Please, somewhere else?”
溫室本身的屋頂上沒有雪；裡面足夠暖和。

“我們可以進去嗎？”小天狼星顫抖地建議。

“你瘋了嗎？斯普特一天來這裡兩次查看曼德拉草。必須找其他地方。”

“小屋？”

“去他媽的。”雷穆斯咆哮道，沒有思考。小天狼星看著他，驚訝地，他搖了搖頭，歉意地說：“我討厭那裡。拜託，找其他地方？”

“Ok, sorry… er… ooh, I know!” He grabbed Remus by the wrist this time, his ungloved hand still miraculously warm.

Remus worked out where they were going before they got there - and it was actually sort of brilliant. They were just approaching the statue of the hump-backed, one-eyed witch, when the seventh year Slytherin student turned a corner at the other end of the hallway. They stopped still, probably looking extremely guilty.

“What are you two doing?” He asked, tilting his head, weighing them up.

“Just going for a stroll.” Sirius replied, haughtily, “It’s a free castle.”

“Whatever.” The Slytherin rolled his eyes, bored. He kept walking past them, robes sweeping. Remus pulled out the map, as soon as he was out of sight, and watched the little dot with his name keep on towards the library. Perseus Flint.

“Bleugh,” Sirius pulled a face when he saw it, “I think he’s a relative…”

They entered the secret passage, cast an illuminating spell and rolled up their cloaks so that they could sit comfortably on the stone floor.

“Should have brought the record player,” Sirius said, “We could get quite comfy here, dunno why I never thought of it before.”

“You and your cave-dwelling fantasies,” Remus humoured him, laying out all of his paraphernalia. He liked rolling, it was a pleasant process. “We’re not spending the rest of Christmas in here.”
“好吧，對不起……呃……哦，我知道了！”這次他抓住雷穆斯的手腕，他沒有戴手套的手仍然奇跡般地溫暖。

雷穆斯在他們到達之前就猜到了他們要去哪裡——而且其實還蠻聰明的。他們正接近那座駝背獨眼女巫的雕像，當時一位七年級的斯萊特林學生在走廊的另一端轉了一個彎。他們停下來，可能看起來非常內疚。

“你們倆在做什麼？”他歪著頭問，打量著他們。

“只是散步。”小天狼星高傲地回答，“這是座自由的城堡。”

“隨便。”那斯萊特林翻了翻白眼，無聊地說。他繼續走過他們身邊，長袍掃過。他一離開視線，雷穆斯立刻拿出地圖，觀察著那個帶有自己名字的小點繼續向圖書館移動。珀修斯·弗林特。

“呸，”小天狼星看到它時做了個鬼臉，“我覺得他是親戚……”

他們進入了秘密通道，施了個照明咒語，把披風捲起來，以便可以舒適地坐在石地板上。

“該帶上唱片機，”小天狼星說，“我們可以在這裡舒適地待著，不知道為什麼我以前沒想到。”

“你和你的洞穴幻想，”雷穆斯逗他，擺放著所有的雜物。他喜歡捲煙，這是一個愉快的過程。“我們不會在這裡度過剩下的聖誕節。”

They did spend the next few hours there, though, minds drifting, murmuring stupid jokes to each other or humming half-remembered songs. By lunchtime they were ravenous, and giggled all the way to the Great Hall. Sirius was red eyed, pale, with an inane grin, and Remus knew he wasn’t much better off. He was just thankful Dumbledore wasn’t there; he’d see through them in an instant.

They were wrangled into a game of chess after lunch, once the table had been cleared, and Sirius actually became very competitive in his attempt to beat Tina, who must have been the reigning Ravenclaw champion. Remus was finding it difficult to concentrate, himself, and eventually lay his head down on the table and fell into a deep sleep.

He was nudged awake about an hour later.

“You’re snoring, Moony.” Sirius chuckled.

“Are you all right?” Tina asked, her inquisitive face peering across the chess board. She had won, it seemed.

“Hmm? Oh, yeah…” he tried to sit upright, feeling a twinge in his back as he did so. “Sorry, must not have slept enough last night.”

“You do look quite pale,” she continued. Her eyes raked over him analytically, “Perhaps you ought to go to bed for a bit? Sirius said you were busy all morning on Herbology, so I’m not surprised if you’re tired.”
他們確實在那裡度過了接下來的幾個小時，心情飄忽不定，互相低聲開著愚蠢的玩笑或哼著半記得的歌曲。到午餐時間，他們已經非常饑餓，並一路咯咯笑著來到大禮堂。小天狼星眼睛紅紅的，臉色蒼白，帶著愚蠢的笑容，雷穆斯知道他也好不到哪裡去。他只是感謝鄧布利多不在那裡；他會瞬間看穿他們的樣子。

午餐後，他們被拉去下棋，桌子清理完畢後，小天狼星其實變得非常競爭，試圖打敗蒂娜，她必定是拉文克勞的冠軍。雷穆斯自己發現很難集中精力，最終把頭放在桌子上，進入了深度睡眠。

大約一小時後，他被輕輕推醒。

“你在打鼾，月。”小天狼星笑道。

“你還好嗎？”蒂娜問道，她那充滿好奇的臉從棋盤上看過來。她似乎贏了。

“嗯？哦，對……”他試著坐直，感覺到背部有些刺痛。“對不起，昨晚沒睡夠。”

“You do look quite pale,” she continued. Her eyes raked over him analytically, “Perhaps you ought to go to bed for a bit? Sirius said you were busy all morning on Herbology, so I’m not surprised if you’re tired.”

Sirius bean to giggle, compulsively, and Remus elbowed him hard in the ribs.

“Yeah, I will go for a lie down, cheers.”

He went back to the tower slowly, at first in case Sirius decided to follow him, and then because his hip hurt from sleeping in a stupid position. His head was clearer, and he decided to take a hot bath, to see if that would help at all. He took his Arithmancy textbook into the bathroom with him, hoping it would stop him from falling asleep again.

He’d only been in the water for ten minutes when Sirius’s voice broke into the dorm room,

“Moony?”

“I’m in the bath.” He called back. The door opened, Remus tutted, “Didn’t say you could come in…”

“Nothing I haven’t seen.” Sirius replied, archly. Remus blinked - was Sirius actually commenting on the recent turn their relationship had taken, or was this just another off handed remark? Perhaps he talked to James in the bath. Remus wouldn’t be surprised. Sirius leaned casually against the sink, “James gave me the password to the prefect’s baths, if you’d rather go there?”

“I’m fine here, thanks.”

“Ok. I’ve had an idea.”

“Does it involve smoking weed in a tunnel?”

“Yes.”

“Brilliant.”

“Not just that, though - I fancy an outing.”

“Do you?” Remus smirked, closing his eyes and leaning back. Here we go...

“How does the Hog’s Head sound?”

Remus opened his eyes.

“It sounds completely mad.”

“Excellent!” Sirius grinned, “We’ll go after dinner, then.”

Remus made half-hearted attempts to change Sirius’s mind, but when a plan had been concocted, it was generally pretty much set in stone. Particularly if it involved breaking school rules.

“I’m not allowed into Hogsmeade…”

“Moony, it’s Christmas Eve.”
“你看起來很蒼白，”她繼續說。她的眼睛仔細地掃視著他，“也許你應該去休息一下？小天狼星說你整個早上都忙於草藥學，所以我不驚訝你會累。”

小天狼星開始強迫性地咯咯笑，雷穆斯用力肘擊了他一下。

“好吧，我會去躺下的，謝謝。”

他慢慢地回到塔樓，起初是擔心小天狼星會跟過來，然後是因為他的大腿因為睡在一個愚蠢的位置而疼痛。他的頭腦變得清晰，他決定泡個熱水澡，看看是否能有所幫助。他把他的算命學課本帶進了浴室，希望這樣能阻止他再次入睡。

他才泡了十分鐘水，小天狼星的聲音就打破了宿舍的寂靜，

“月？”

“我在浴缸裡。”他叫道。門開了，雷穆斯咕噥道，“沒說你可以進來……”

“什麼我沒見過的。”小天狼星冷冷地回答。雷穆斯眨了眨眼——小天狼星這是在評論他們關係的最近變化，還是另一個隨口的評論？也許他和詹姆斯在浴室裡有談過這事。雷穆斯不會感到驚訝。小天狼星悠閒地靠在水槽邊，“詹姆斯給了我學 prefect 浴室的密碼，如果你想去那裡的話？”

“我在這裡很好，謝謝。”

“好吧。我有一個主意。”

“這是否涉及在隧道裡抽煙？”

“是的。”

“太好了。”

“但不僅僅是這個——我想出去走走。”

“你想？”雷穆斯嘴角上揚，閉上眼睛靠在後面。來吧...

“霍格斯黑頭酒吧怎麼樣？”

雷穆斯睜開了眼睛。

“聽起來完全瘋狂。”

“太好了！”小天狼星露出笑容，“那我們晚餐後就去。”

雷穆斯嘗試著半心半意地改變小天狼星的主意，但一旦計劃制定出來，它通常就會石沉大海。特別是當它涉及違反校規的時候。

“我不被允許進入霍格斯密德……”

“小天狼星，今天是聖誕夜。”

 

 

So they went. After sharing a long joint in the tunnel (at the Honeyduke’s end, obviously - Remus didn’t fancy being stoned for the long walk through the passage), they crept up into the sweet shop (pocketing a few chocolate frogs on the way) and out into the dark, empty high street.
于是他们就去了。在隧道里共享了一根长长的麻醉卷（显然是在霍尼杜克的那一端——雷穆斯不想在穿过通道的长路上变得醉醺醺的），他们悄悄地进入了糖果店（一路上顺手拿了几只巧克力青蛙）并走上了黑暗空旷的街道。

The Three Broomsticks was the only place that looked at all welcoming - but Sirius reckoned Rosmerta might shop them to McGonagall if she saw them in there.
三把扫帚是唯一一个看起来有些欢迎的地方——但小天狼星认为罗斯梅塔可能会把他们报告给麦格教授，如果她看到他们在那里。

“Which would be total bollocks,” he huffed, “I’m seventeen, I should be allowed to do what I like.”
“这完全是胡说八道，”他喘息着说，“我已经十七岁了，我应该可以做我喜欢的事。”

The Hog’s Head was not nearly as inviting as the Three Broomsticks, but it still had a kind of atmosphere. The clientele were private, huddled in groups talking amongst themselves, and the barman surly, but he served Sirius and Remus without question, and they were able to find a table and stools without too much of a problem. There was an odd smell hanging about the place - something Remus liked a lot, but couldn’t quite place. It stirred a strange sort of wanting inside him, which he tried to drown in whisky.
霍格斯黑头酒吧的招待并不如三把扫帚那样热情，但它仍然有种氛围。顾客们私密地聚在一起谈话，酒保态度冷漠，但他没有质疑地服务了小天狼星和雷穆斯，他们很快找到了一张桌子和凳子。酒吧里弥漫着一种奇怪的气味——雷穆斯非常喜欢，但却无法确定那是什么。它在他心中激起了一种奇异的渴望，他试图用威士忌来淹没这种感觉。

They drank a lot, and quickly, caught up in each other’s overexcitement.
他们喝了很多，喝得很快，沉浸在彼此的兴奋中。

“I haven’t had a drink since Halloween.” Remus said, daringly.
“我从万圣节以来没喝过酒。”雷穆斯大胆地说。

“Ugh, I was so sick that night,” Sirius laughed, “I don’t even remember half of it.”
“呃，那晚我真的很醉，”小天狼星笑道，“我甚至不记得一半的事了。”

“I do.” Remus bristled. Sirius caught his look and the smile fell from his face. His brows knit and he looked down at his half empty goblet,
“我记得。”雷穆斯紧绷着。小天狼星捕捉到他的表情，笑容从他的脸上消失了。他皱起眉头，看着自己半满的酒杯，

“Of course I remember that part, Remus.”
“当然记得那部分，雷穆斯。”

He felt a bit guilty after that. A small part of him still wanted to punish Sirius for the hurt he’d caused, even if, on the whole, he wanted to forget it all and just be happy. Alcohol is fortunately the ideal solution for this particular problem. At least, Remus thought so. He smiled broadly,
之后他感到有点内疚。他内心的一小部分仍然想要惩罚小天狼星，尽管总体上他想要忘记这一切，只想要快乐。幸运的是，酒精对于这个问题是理想的解决方案。至少，雷穆斯是这么认为的。他面带笑容，

“First time I got pissed,” he drained his glass, “Was that summer I got the boots and all that gear - I got so off my head I thought I was going to die.”
“第一次喝醉，”他喝干了酒杯，“是在那个夏天，我得到了那双靴子和那些装备——我喝得太醉了，以至于以为自己要死了。”

“I got tipsy at a family banquet when I was thirteen,” Sirius mused, ordering two more cups with a snap of his fingers, “But not as drunk as I got for your birthday that year… still, it was all the same to Mother, and out came the wand…”
“我十三岁时在一个家庭宴会上醉过，”小天狼星回忆道，打了个响指再点了两杯，“但没有像我那年你生日那样醉过……不过，对母亲来说都是一样的，接着她就拿出了魔杖……”

He made a wide, slashing movement with his own wand hand, and imitated his mother’s sharp, precise voice, “A Black heir shows proper comportment at all times,” slash, slash.
他用自己的魔杖手做了一个宽大的劈砍动作，模仿他母亲尖锐而准确的声音，“黑家继承人应始终表现得体，”劈砍，劈砍。

Remus winced, thinking about Sirius’s calves. Sirius glanced at him sideways, mid-slash, “Sorry,” he said, folding his arms as the whiskies arrived, “It’s not funny, I dunno why I act like it is.”
雷穆斯皱了皱眉，想到小天狼星的腿肚子。小天狼星在劈砍中侧目看了他一眼，“对不起，”他说，双臂交叉，威士忌到达时，“这不好笑，我不知道为什么我表现得像是。”

“You’re out, now,” Remus said, seriously, “You don’t ever have to go back.”
“你现在已经出来了，”雷穆斯认真地说，“你再也不必回去了。”

“Yeah,” Sirius slurred, slouching in his seat, “It’s all Reg’s mess now. Nasty little so and so - d’you know how many times I took the blame for him? How many times I stood between… he used to be a proper little crybaby, but Mother hates crying, she says it makes men sissies, it makes them - well, whatever, some bollocks, but anyway, Reg would cry, and I would do something worse to distract her, and then she’d do her thing,” slash, slash. His eyes were bright and his cheeks were pink, “Y’know if either of us had just learnt not to get upset, then maybe… but I s’pose Reg learnt, in the end, cold hearted fucker.”
“是啊，”小天狼星含糊不清地说，靠在椅子上，“现在都是雷吉的烂摊子了。那个可恶的小家伙——你知道我替他背了多少次锅吗？多少次我站在……他曾经是个真正的小哭包，但母亲讨厌哭泣，她说这会让男人变得娘娘腔，变得——好吧，无论如何，雷吉会哭，而我会做一些更糟糕的事来转移她的注意力，然后她会做她的事，”劈砍，劈砍。他的眼睛闪亮，脸颊红润，“你知道，如果我们其中一个学会了不生气，也许……但我想雷吉学会了，最终，冷酷的混蛋。”

He took a big gulp. “Sorry, I shouldn’t moan. ‘Specially not to you. You know all about my bloody lack of self-control.”
他大口喝酒。“对不起，我不该抱怨。特别是不该对你抱怨。你知道我该死的自控力差。”

It took Remus a moment or two to realise that Sirius was talking about the Snape incident. He didn’t want to talk about that, the conversation was melancholy enough as it was, and he knew what happened when you let the drink get you down.
雷穆斯花了一两分钟才意识到小天狼星在谈论斯内普事件。他不想谈论这个话题，谈话本身已经足够忧伤了，他知道当你让酒精影响你的情绪时会发生什么。

“S’fine,” he mumbled, “Probably a good thing, anyway. I hardly ever cry, I think I lost the ability at some point. Maybe I’m like Reg.”
“没事，”他喃喃道，“也许这还是好事。我几乎从不哭，我觉得我在某个时候失去了这个能力。也许我像雷吉。”

“You are not like Reg.” Sirius said, vehemently, squeezing Remus’s knee. Remus smiled at him, dopily, and Sirius withdrew his hand quickly, looking around furtively in case the gesture had been noticed.
“你不像雷吉。”小天狼星坚决地说，捏了捏雷穆斯的膝盖。雷穆斯傻傻地笑着看着他，小天狼星迅速收回了手，警惕地四处张望，生怕这个举动被注意到。

“Can you smell that?” Remus asked, feeling very drunk now. He stretched like a cat. It was so familiar, so deep and fascinating – like prey, or… no, it was just out of reach.
“你闻到那味道了吗？”雷穆斯问，感觉非常醉了。他像猫一样伸展。这味道如此熟悉，如此深沉而迷人——像猎物，或者……不，只是触不可及。

“Stale beer? BO?” Sirius suggested, making himself laugh.
“陈旧的啤酒？体味？”小天狼星建议，自己笑了起来。

“No, it’s an animal or something…”
“不，是动物还是别的东西……”

“Sorry, mate,” he shrugged, “I could turn into a dog and have a sniff, but I think I’m too drunk to remember how to turn back…”
“抱歉，伙计，”他耸耸肩，“我可以变成狗去嗅嗅，但我觉得我太醉了，记不起怎么变回去了……”

They left the pub, shortly after that. The scent had infected Remus, unshakable and overwhelmingly desirable, he felt more than drunk - almost wolfish. He transferred this feeling to Sirius, and pushed him against the wall in the darkness of an alleyway, kissing him fiercely, pressing his hips against him. Eventually Sirius had to push him away, using more force than normal,
他们随后离开了酒吧。那种气味感染了雷穆斯，无法摆脱且令人难以抗拒，他感觉自己不仅仅是醉了——几乎像狼一样。他把这种感觉传递给了小天狼星，把他推到巷子里的墙上，激烈地吻着他，把他的胯部压在他身上。最终小天狼星不得不把他推开，使用了比平时更多的力气，

“Hey,” he whispered, “Not here, someone’ll see... “
“嘿，”他低声说，“不是在这里，有人会看到的……”

They dragged each other back to Honeyduke’s, through the door and into the cellar - which Remus would have been more than happy with, but Sirius wouldn’t touch him again until they were inside the dark, dank tunnel. They hadn’t been together like this before after drinking - and neither of them had the presence of mind to light their wands, so it was pitch black, but Remus was hot with the whisky and Sirius was just as eager as him now they were alone, and it was the same as it had been, only better, more urgent and fluid and messy, and Remus felt a surge of courage, before pulling away and sinking to his knees, holding Sirius in place, and it was nerve-wracking, but god, so worth it to hear that surprised gasp,
他们互相拖回了霍尼杜克，通过门进入了地窖——雷穆斯对此很满意，但小天狼星直到他们进入黑暗潮湿的隧道才再次碰触他。他们之前在喝酒后从未这样在一起过——他们都没有点亮魔杖的意识，所以完全黑暗，但雷穆斯被威士忌烫得热乎乎的，小天狼星现在也和他一样迫不及待。感觉一样，只是更好，更紧迫，更流畅和混乱，雷穆斯感到一股勇气涌上心头，然后拉开距离，跪下来，固定住小天狼星，这让他感到紧张，但天哪，听到那惊讶的喘息声是如此值得，

“What are you...? – oh!”
“你在做什么……？——哦！”

Christmas Day 1976
1976年圣诞节

As was to be expected, both boys awoke on Christmas Day with thumping hangovers.
正如预期的那样，两人都在圣诞节醒来时有着严重的宿醉。

“Tell me there’s a cure, Moony,” Sirius wailed from his bed, “You’re the one taking healing lessons…”
“小天狼星，告诉我有解药吧，”小天狼星从床上哀号道，“你是唯一一个上了治疗课的人……”

“You’re the one taking Potions,” Remus grumbled from under his pillow. “Pain is a potion thing, I do cuts and abrasions.”
“你才上了药剂学，”雷穆斯从枕头下嘟囔道，“疼痛是药剂学的事，我处理割伤和擦伤。”

“Useless.”
“没用。”

“Shut up.”
“闭嘴。”

But it was no good, he was awake now, and there was nothing either of them could do about it. He clambered out from his bedsheets, head thudding at twice the tempo as he hobbled across the room to the bathroom. “Cold shower,” he mumbled at Sirius’s bed, “Then breakfast. Fried eggs, trust me.”
但没用，他现在已经醒了，两人都无能为力。他从床单中爬出来，头痛得像是加快了两倍的节奏，一拐一拐地走到浴室。“冷水澡，”他对着小天狼星的床喃喃道，“然后早餐。炒鸡蛋，相信我。”

They couldn't face opening presents and left it, instead stumbling down to eat, without combing their hair or making much effort to look smart at all. Dumbledore was there, and smiled at them benevolently as they took their seats at the table,
他们无法面对打开礼物，决定跳过，跌跌撞撞地去吃饭，头发也没梳理，完全没有努力打扮。邓布利多在那儿，看到他们坐到桌旁，慈祥地对他们微笑，

“Happy Christmas, one and all!” He boomed, cheerily, apparently oblivious to Sirius and Remus’s wincing.
“圣诞快乐，大家！”他愉快地大声说，显然没有察觉到小天狼星和雷穆斯的痛苦表情。

Breakfast did improve things, somewhat - at least it settled their stomachs, and they eagerly returned to the tower afterwards to open presents. Remus got the usual assortment of quills, chocolates, books and knitwear as usual, and was very pleased to receive them. Nothing from Matron this year - he supposed she’d decided to cut ties early, seeing as after his seventeenth birthday he would not be expected to return to St. Edmund’s. He pushed that thought down with a cigarette.
早餐确实有所改善——至少安抚了他们的胃，他们随后急切地回到塔楼拆礼物。雷穆斯像往常一样收到了各种笔、巧克力、书籍和针织品，对此非常满意。今年没有来自医务员的礼物——他想她可能决定早早断绝关系了，因为在他十七岁生日后，他不再被期望回到圣埃德蒙德学校。他用一根香烟将这个想法压了下去。

James got in touch shortly after that, through the compact mirrors, and they both wished him a merry Christmas,
詹姆斯随后通过紧凑的镜子联系了他们，他们都祝他圣诞快乐，

“Are you two ok?” He frowned up through the glass, “You look a bit peaky.”
“你们还好吗？”他通过玻璃皱着眉头问道，“你们看起来有点脸色苍白。”

“Hungover,” Sirius grunted.
“宿醉。”小天狼星咕哝道。

“Jealous.” James replied.
“真羡慕。”詹姆斯回答道。

“Weirdo.” Said Remus.
“怪人。”雷穆斯说道。

Afterwards, he took a nap, still worn out from the night before, and woke up in time for lunch - which, in Remus’s opinion, was basically a perfect Christmas Day.
之后，他小睡了一会儿，仍然感到昨晚的疲惫，醒来时正好是午餐时间——在雷穆斯看来，这基本上是一个完美的圣诞节。

Boxing Day 1976
1976年节礼日

“Why’s it called boxing day, anyway?”
“节礼日为什么叫节礼日呢？”

“Nobody knows,” Remus yawned over his porridge, “It’s one of the great mysteries of life.”
“没人知道，”雷穆斯在麦片上打了个哈欠，“这是生活中的一个伟大谜团。”

“Must be a muggle thing. I’ll ask my muggle studies professor.”
“一定是麻瓜的东西。我会问问我的麻瓜研究教授。”

“You do muggle studies?” The Slytherin, Flint, was staring down the table at him.
“你学麻瓜研究？”斯莱特林的弗林特盯着桌子上的雷穆斯问道。

Sirius threw two fingers up at him, then turned his back, ignoring him. Remus kept eating, the brown sugar melting on his tongue. Their knees were bumping under the table and it was delightful.
小天狼星朝他竖起两个手指，然后转过身，忽视他。雷穆斯继续吃着，棕糖在舌尖上融化。他们的膝盖在桌子下碰撞，感觉很愉快。

Suddenly, the owls arrived, screeching into the hall with an unusual urgency. There were more than usual, as well. Remus realised that Dumbledore and McGonagall were not at breakfast. Tina, sitting opposite, got her post first and opened it.
突然，猫头鹰们急促地飞进了大厅，发出尖锐的叫声。数量也比平时多。雷穆斯意识到邓布利多和麦格没有在早餐时出现。坐在对面的蒂娜首先收到了邮件，并打开了它。

“It’s from mum…” her eyes widened and she got up from the table at once, hurrying away out of the hall. Flint did the same, then Arnold.
“这是妈妈发来的……”她的眼睛睁大了，立刻从桌子上站起，匆匆离开大厅。弗林特也这样做了，然后是阿诺德。

“What’s going on?” Remus asked, as Flitwick sighed heavily, shaking his head. He passed the two remaining boys a copy of The Daily Prophet. They leaned in together to read it.
“发生了什么？”雷穆斯问道，此时弗利维克重重地叹了口气，摇了摇头。他递给剩下的两个男孩一份《预言家日报》。他们俩凑在一起阅读。

‘MUGGLES ATTACKED IN CHRISTMAS CRISIS’ blared the headline.
“麻瓜在圣诞危机中遭遇袭击”标题赫然醒目。

“Last night, while thousands slept safely in their beds on Christmas night, over one hundred muggles all over Britain were attacked in their homes. The Auror’s office confirmed this morning that the attacks were magical in nature, and intended to cause harm.
“昨晚，在成千上万的人在圣诞夜安然入睡时，英国各地的百余名麻瓜在家中遭到袭击。今天早晨，傲罗办公室确认这些袭击具有魔法性质，意在造成伤害。

The attacks took place in a number of locations, apparently targeting families with ties to the wizarding world - those with magical relatives or a history of muggle-magical relations. Offences range from minor jinxes to - in some cases - the use of unforgivable curses. There are no suspects at present. The minister for Magic is expected to make a statement later today.”
袭击发生在多个地点，显然以与巫师世界有联系的家庭为目标——那些有魔法亲属或有麻瓜与魔法关系历史的家庭。罪行从轻微的咒语到——在某些情况下——使用不可饶恕的诅咒不等。目前没有嫌疑犯。预计魔法部长今天晚些时候会发表声明。”

Professor McGonagall arrived while they were reading, with Flint, Tina and Arnold in toe. Tina looked as though she had been crying. Flint was scowling miserably.
麦格教授在他们阅读的时候到达了，弗林特、蒂娜和阿诺德跟在她身后。蒂娜看起来像是哭过。弗林特愁眉苦脸。

“You’ve all heard the news.” The professor said, her voice thinner than usual; strained and tired. “If your parents have requested that you return home, then we will make arrangements at once to ensure you arrive safely.”
“你们都听到消息了。”教授说，声音比平时要虚弱；疲惫和紧张。“如果你们的父母要求你们回家，我们会立即安排，确保你们安全到达。”

“Is there anything we can do, Professor?” Sirius stood up, frowning. Flint rolled his eyes.
“我们能做些什么吗，教授？”小天狼星站起来，皱着眉头问道。弗林特翻了个白眼。

“No, Mr Black, thank you. Simply stay calm and carry on as normal.”
“不，布莱克先生，谢谢。只需保持冷静，照常进行即可。”

“Please, Professor Flitwick,” Tina sobbed, “I need to go home now, it’s my auntie…” Arnold put his arm around her shoulder, and whispered something comforting.
“请，弗利维克教授，”蒂娜哭泣道，“我现在需要回家，是我的姑姑……”阿诺德搂着她的肩膀，低声说了些安慰的话。

“C’mon, Moony,” Sirius murmured, “Let’s see if James knows anything…”
“走吧，月亮，”小天狼星低声说，“看看詹姆斯知道些什么……”

“I don’t know anything!” James said, almost as soon as he opened the mirror to respond to their calling. “Dad’s gone to the ministry with Moody, they let me read the paper, but there’s nothing else. Everyone knows who did it, though - death eaters.”
“我不知道任何事！”詹姆斯几乎在打开镜子回应他们的呼叫时就说。“爸爸跟穆迪去了魔法部，他们让我看了报纸，但没别的了。不过，大家都知道是谁干的——食死徒。”

Sirius nodded, gravely.
小天狼星严肃地点了点头。

“Voldemort?” Remus asked, “Does he have that many followers? Over a hundred, the paper said, all over the country, in one night…”
“伏地魔？”雷穆斯问，“他有那么多追随者吗？报纸上说，整个国家一夜之间有一百多人……”

“Must be more than anyone thought.” James said.
“肯定比任何人想的要多。”詹姆斯说道。

“Well,” Sirius sat up, his mouth a grim line, “My family alone would account for at least twenty.”
“好吧，”小天狼星坐直了身子，嘴巴紧绷，“仅仅是我家就至少有二十个。”

“They’re not your family,” James said, fiercely. He and Sirius stared each other out for a while, and Remus shifted away, slightly, feeling intrusive. Sirius’s temper was rising, Remus didn’t need enhanced senses to work that out.
“他们不是你的家人，”詹姆斯激烈地说。他和小天狼星对视了一会儿，雷穆斯微微移开了，感到有些入侵。小天狼星的怒火在升腾，雷穆斯不需要增强的感官就能明白这一点。

“If Reg was one of then, I’ll…”
“如果雷吉是其中之一，我会……”

“Black!” James hissed, “No one knows who any of them were. Calm down, ok? Moony, you there?”
“布莱克！”詹姆斯低声说，“没人知道他们是谁。冷静点，好吗？月亮，你在吗？”

“Yeah,” Remus shuffled back into the mirror’s view. James looked at him,
“在，”雷穆斯重新挪回了镜子的视野。詹姆斯看着他，

“Don’t let him be a twat about this, right?”
“不要让他在这件事上胡闹，好吗？”

“What do you want me to do?!” Remus asked, nonplussed. Sirius’s family crises were usually James’s job. Remus’s role was different.
“你想让我做什么？！”雷穆斯不解地问。小天狼星的家庭危机通常是詹姆斯的工作。雷穆斯的角色不同。

“Just distract him!”
“只是分散他的注意力！”

Remus personally didn’t think that that sounded like the best idea. It wouldn’t get rid of the problem - and James almost definitely wouldn’t approve of Remus’s distraction techniques. Sirius talked to James for a bit longer, and Remus left them to it. He thought longingly about the final joint, sitting in his bedside table upstairs. Probably not appropriate.
雷穆斯个人认为这听起来不是最好的主意。这并不能解决问题——而且詹姆斯几乎肯定不会赞同雷穆斯的分散注意力技巧。小天狼星和詹姆斯多聊了一会儿，雷穆斯离开了。他渴望地想着在楼上的床头柜里的最后一根烟卷。可能不太合适。

 

Thursday 27th December 1976

Arnold, Tina and Flint went home on Boxing Day, so after that it was just the two of them (and the teachers, of course, but they seemed to be in a never-ending conference, McGonagall's face growing more and more weary every time Remus saw her).
阿諾德、蒂娜和弗林特在節禮日那天回家了，所以之後只剩下他們兩個（當然還有老師們，但他們似乎在進行一個永無止境的會議，每次雷穆斯看到麥格教授的臉，都變得越來越疲憊）。

Sirius sulked. He didn’t want to go out, he didn’t want to stay in. He didn’t want to smoke, or drink, or eat, or play games. He just wanted to stew. Remus would have been quite content to let him, if only it didn’t affect the entire atmosphere of the castle so much.
小天狼星鬱悶不樂。他不想出去，也不想待在裡面。他不想抽煙、喝酒、吃東西，也不想玩遊戲。他只想沉浸在自己的情緒中。雷穆斯會很樂意讓他這樣，若不是這樣會影響到整個城堡的氛圍。

He tried James’s distraction idea.
他嘗試了詹姆斯的分心建議。

“Want to play that game?”
“想玩那個遊戲嗎？”

“Nah, I’m rubbish at it.”
“不，這遊戲我很爛。”

“Yeah, but I’m not.”
“是的，但我不是。”

“You play it, then.” He hunched down into his chair, arms folded. Remus sighed,
“那你來玩吧。”他縮在椅子上，雙臂抱著。雷穆斯嘆了口氣，

“Want to go out on your broom? I’ll go with you and everything.”
“想去外面飛掃帚嗎？我會跟你一起去的。”

“Don’t have my broom here.”
“這裡沒有我的掃帚。”

“We can borrow them from the shed. Hooch won’t mind.”
“我們可以從小屋借來。胡治不會介意的。”

“Nah, don’t like using other people’s brooms.”
“不，討厭用別人的掃帚。”

“Snob.”
“裝腔作勢。”

No response.
沒有回應。

“Chess?”
“下棋？”

“Boring.”
“無聊。”

“Homework?”
“做作業？”

That was just met with a dark look.
這只是得到了一個陰沉的眼神。

“Want a blow job?”
“想要口交嗎？”

“Bloody hell, Moony!”
“天啊，雷穆斯！”

“What?! I’m running out of options, jesus. Just trying to cheer you up.”
“什麼？！我選擇不多了，天啊。只是想讓你高興些。”

“I don’t want to cheer up.”
“我不想高興起來。”

“Yes, that much is clear.” He fiddled with a loose thread on his sleeve, “Do you want to go to the Potters?”
“是的，這點很明顯。”他玩弄著袖子上的一根鬆線，“你想去波特家嗎？”

Sirius looked up,
小天狼星抬起頭，

“What?”
“什麼？”

“I don’t mind,” Remus said, honestly. “If you need to see them. If you… need James.”
“我不介意，”雷穆斯說，誠實地，“如果你需要見他們。如果你……需要詹姆斯。”

For a moment, Remus wasn’t sure what Sirius was going to do. He seemed to consider the idea, and Remus wished he hadn’t suggested it. But he shook his head.
雷穆斯一時不確定小天狼星會怎麼做。他似乎在考慮這個想法，雷穆斯希望他沒提這個建議。但小天狼星搖了搖頭。

“Nah.” He said, “What sort of mate would I be if I left you here by yourself?”
“不。”他說，“如果我把你留在這裡不管，我算什麼朋友？”

That got Remus’s back up. He tugged at the thread on his sleeve, breaking it,
這讓雷穆斯很不高興。他拉扯著袖子上的線，把它弄斷，

“Well you’re not being much of a mate right now, to be honest. I know you’re in a mood, but--”
“說實話，你現在不像個朋友。我知道你心情不好，但——”

“I’m not in a mood.” Sirius spat, angrily, “I’m pissed off. Look, you don’t know what it’s like, having family out there doing merlin knows what - people I’m actually related to, Moony.”
“我不在情緒不好。”小天狼星憤怒地說，“我很生氣。看，你不知道那種感覺，家人在外面做梅林知道的事情——那些我真正相關的家人，雷穆斯。”

“Oh god, change the bloody record, will you?” Remus groaned, getting up to prod the fire, sorry James, he thought, I’m not you. “Poor Sirius Black, the spoilt rich boy with the wicked family.”
“哦，上帝，換一個話題吧？”雷穆斯嘆息著站起來去撥弄火堆，對不起詹姆斯，他想，我不是你。“可憐的小天狼星·布萊克，這個被寵壞的富家子弟有個邪惡的家庭。”

“Oi, watch it.”
“喂，小心點。”

“Well I’m sorry, but we’ve had six years of this, now. No, I don’t know what it’s like, because I don’t have a family, let alone an evil one. You know what I’ve got? A pack of bloody werewolves, waiting for me to come of age so I can finally go and join all the other monsters.”
“抱歉，但我們已經經歷了六年這樣的事。不是，我不知道那種感覺，因為我沒有家人，更別提邪惡的家人了。你知道我有什麼？一群該死的狼人，等著我成年，好讓我去加入其他怪物。”

“Moony…”
“雷穆斯……”

“I’ve got some brutal fucking mass murdering child killer out there waiting for me. And not much else, to be honest. I don’t have the Potters, or an Uncle - I don’t even have a flipping future. So, if you don’t mind, I’d rather not sit around here listening you whinge about how hard you’ve got it.”
“外面有個殘忍的殺人兇手在等著我。說實話，還沒有什麼其他的。我沒有波特家族，沒有叔叔——我甚至沒有未來。所以，如果你不介意，我寧願不在這裡聽你抱怨你的困境。”

He’d only decided halfway through speaking that he was going to storm out, but he hoped it didn’t look that way. He hadn’t let himself get that angry in a very long time - and, as ever, it had been Sirius who’d brought it out. He went to the library, because there was nowhere else, and because Sirius would almost definitely look there first. It was weird, walking through the empty halls and staircases. He could hear the portraits whispering as he passed, and didn’t like it.
他在說話過程中才決定要沖出去，但他希望看起來不是那樣。他很久沒有讓自己如此生氣了——一如既往，是小天狼星引發了這種情緒。他去了圖書館，因為沒有其他地方可以去，並且小天狼星幾乎肯定會首先去那裡。走過空曠的走廊和樓梯有些奇怪。他能聽到畫中的人們在竊竊私語，他不喜歡這種感覺。

When he got to the library, he realised that he didn’t have a next step planned. He’d left all of his homework back in the dorm, so he couldn’t check his notes. He could summon them, he supposed - but that somehow defeated the point of storming off.
當他到了圖書館時，他意識到自己沒有下一步的計劃。他把所有的作業留在了宿舍，所以無法查看筆記。他可以召喚它們，他想——但這樣會違背沖出去的目的。

 

 

Here’s the translation inserted at the end of each paragraph:

Remus just went to the nearest shelf and pulled out a random book, sitting in the most comfortable chair he could find with it. It was on potions. Just his luck. For the first time in a few years, Remus used Letiuncula Magna to read. It was easier, and his head was too much of a mess to concentrate very hard. Still, it calmed him down.
雷穆斯隨便抽出一本書，坐在他能找到的最舒適的椅子上。這本書講的是魔藥學。真是他的運氣。幾年來第一次，雷穆斯使用了Letiuncula Magna來閱讀。這樣更容易一些，他的頭腦太混亂了，無法集中注意力。不過，這讓他冷靜下來了。

“Remus.”
“雷穆斯。”

He closed his eyes and breathed in, before looking up.
他閉上眼睛深呼吸了一下，然後抬起頭來。

“Sorry I shouted, Padfoot.”
“對不起我大聲喊叫，小天狼星。”

“Sorry I was whinging.” Sirius shrugged.
“對不起我抱怨。”小天狼星耸耸肩。

“Well, it’s ok to be angry sometimes. It’s normal.” Remus smiled, setting the book down. He got up and walked over to the library entrance, where Sirius stood, hands in his pockets, like a contrite child. “I was a dickhead, though, I shouldn’t have said those things.”
“有時生氣是可以的，這很正常。”雷穆斯微笑著放下書本。他站起來，走到圖書館入口處，小天狼星站在那裡，雙手插在口袋裡，像個懺悔的孩子。“不過，我確實是個混蛋，我不應該說那些話。”

“Ah, they were true. I’m a spoilt rich brat.”
“啊，那些話都是真的。我是個被寵壞的富家孩子。”

“Yeah,” Remus grinned, ruffling his perfect hair, “I don’t mind, though.”
“是啊，”雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，撫弄著他完美的頭髮，“不過我不介意。”

“We can do one of those things you wanted to do, now. If you still want…?”
“我們可以做你之前想做的那些事。如果你還想的話……”

“Which one? Chess?”
“哪一個？下棋？”

“Oh yeah,” Sirius raised an eyebrow, “Definitely chess.”
“哦，是的，”小天狼星挑了挑眉，“一定是下棋。”

Friday 28th December 1976

“Do you want to talk about it?” Sirius asked, late in the afternoon. He had finally allowed Sirius to get on with his homework, and was playing a game of solitaire with a deck of cards he’d found. Remus had never seen Sirius occupied in such a quiet activity before, and kept sneaking glances.
“你想談談嗎？”小天狼星問，下午晚些時候。他終於允許小天狼星繼續做作業，而自己則在玩一副他找到的紙牌接龍。雷穆斯從未見過小天狼星這麼安靜地做事，不斷偷偷瞄他。

“Hm?” He looked up from his Herbology, pretending he’d been completely absorbed in petal identification.
“嗯？”他抬起頭，假裝自己完全專注於花瓣識別。

“Do you want to talk about it?” Sirius repeated, still looking at his cards, “The Greyback stuff?”
“你想談談嗎？”小天狼星重複道，仍然看著他的卡片，“關於格雷貝克的事？”

“Oh, that.” Remus’s throat went dry. “No, I don’t. Thanks, though.”
“哦，那個。”雷穆斯的喉嚨乾渴了。“不，我不想。謝謝，不過。”

“If you’re sure…” Sirius said, lifting a card and placing it on another pile. “Just because you said that you didn’t think he was after you, but then yesterday you said…”
“如果你確定……”小天狼星說，抬起一張卡片放在另一疊上。“只是因為你說你不認為他會找你，但昨天你說……”

“Yeah, I know.” Remus said, feeling his pulse speed up, “It just… I don’t want to think about it right now. Ok?”
“是的，我知道。”雷穆斯說，感覺心跳加速，“只是……我現在不想考慮這個。好嗎？”

“Ok, then.” Sirius looked up and smiled.
“好吧。”小天狼星抬起頭，微笑著。

Remus smiled back, and felt such a surge of love for Sirius Black that it made him dizzy.
雷穆斯回以微笑，感到對小天狼星·布萊克的愛意湧上心頭，讓他感到頭暈。

Saturday 29th December 1976

“Foul!” Remus cheered, gleefully, as Peter’s trainers sailed over the top of the goal line.
“犯規！”雷穆斯興奮地叫道，當彼得的鞋子越過了球門線。

“Balls.” Sirius sighed. “Knew that was a bit ambitious.”
“糟了。”小天狼星嘆息道。“知道這有點過於雄心壯志。”

“We should leave this up,” Remus said, readjusting the hanging bedsheets, “Imagine playing this with more people.”
“我們應該把這個留下來，”雷穆斯說，重新調整懸掛的床單，“想象一下如果有更多人一起玩。”

“Evans would make us take it down.”
“埃文斯會讓我們把它拆下來。”

“Only after she’d had a go, I bet.”
“我敢打賭她會在玩過之後才讓我們拆下來。”

“You like her, don’t you?”
“你喜歡她，對吧？”

Remus gave him a sharp look,
雷穆斯用銳利的目光看了他一眼，

“Not this again…”
“這又來了……”

“What?!” Sirius smirked, levitating an apple from the fruit bowl the elves had left out.
“什麼？！”小天狼星得意地說，一邊用魔法把一個蘋果從精靈們留下的水果碗中漂浮起來。

“You’re obsessed with finding me a girlfriend.”
“你對找女朋友這事著迷。”

“I’m not. I just don’t want you to miss out on any of that stuff.” Sirius got the apple through the largest hole and punched the air, “Yes!”
“我不是。我只是希望你不要錯過那些事。”小天狼星把蘋果送進了最大的洞裡，揮拳慶祝，“是的！”

“Five points.” Remus returned, dryly, “You’re still twenty down.” He cleared his throat, “And I’m not missing out on anything.”
“五分。”雷穆斯冷冷地回道，“你還差二十分。”他清了清喉嚨，“而且我不會錯過任何東西。”

“I know you don’t think you are, Moony, but I’m just saying--”
“我知道你覺得你沒錯過什麼，雷穆斯，但我只是想說——”

“Well, don’t.”
“那就別說了。”

“Don’t be angry with me.”
“別對我生氣。”

“I’m not.” Remus fired an inkwell at the sheets so hard that he missed, and splattered the white fabric with a bright blue splodge.
“我不生氣。”雷穆斯用力地將一瓶墨水扔向床單，結果沒打中，將白色布料弄成了明亮的藍色斑點。

“You seem pretty angry.” Sirius lowered his own wand, turning to Remus. Remus didn’t look at him.
“你看起來很生氣。”小天狼星放下自己的魔杖，轉向雷穆斯。雷穆斯沒有看他。

“I don’t want a girlfriend, how many times?”
“我不想要女朋友，說了多少次？”

“I know you say that, but… I can’t help but think there must be a reason behind it… I think I know why.” Sirius shifted, awkwardly, and Remus looked at him, sideways, his heart pounding in his chest. He should have expected this, eventually. “It’s because of the werewolf thing, isn’t it?” Sirius said.
“我知道你這麼說，但……我忍不住覺得一定有原因在後面……我想我知道為什麼。”小天狼星局促地動了一下，雷穆斯側目看著他，心臟在胸口猛烈跳動。他應該早就預料到這一點。“這是因為狼人那件事，是吧？”小天狼星說。

Remus opened his mouth, then closed it again. Really? Really?! He sat down, head in his hands, and tried not to laugh. Sirius mistook this for something else, and said, gently, “You’re worried about a girl finding out, right? But, I mean, Evans knows, and she’s fine about it, so I don’t see why you wouldn’t find someone else… and your scars aren’t as bad as you think they are.”
雷穆斯張了張嘴，又閉上了。真的？真的？！他坐下來，頭埋在雙手中，試著不笑出聲來。小天狼星誤以為他是因為別的事，輕聲說道：“你擔心女生會發現，是吧？但，我的意思是，埃文斯知道了，她覺得沒問題，所以我不明白為什麼你不能找到其他人……而且你的傷疤其實沒有你想的那麼糟糕。”

“Oh really?” Remus snorted.
“哦，真的嗎？”雷穆斯嗤之以鼻。

“Yeah,” Sirius nodded, encouragingly, “They’re cool. And you… I mean, y’know, you’re quite good looking. You’re tall and you’re um...”
“是啊，”小天狼星鼓勵地點頭，“它們很酷。還有你……我的意思是，你知道，你其實挺好看的。你高大，然後你……”

Remus looked up at him, curiously. Sirius Black was blushing.
雷穆斯好奇地抬頭看他。小天狼星·布萊克在臉紅。

Jesus Christ, Remus thought, what have we got ourselves into?
“天啊，”雷穆斯心想，“我們到底陷入了什麼困境？”

Sunday 30th December 1976

“How far do you reckon Pete and Desdemona have gone?”
“你覺得彼得和德斯德莫娜已經走了多遠？”

“Ugh, why are you thinking about that?” Remus wrinkled his nose in the dark.
“唔，你為什麼在想這個？”雷穆斯在黑暗中皺起了鼻子。

“I dunno,” Sirius replied, “Can’t sleep.”
“我不知道，”小天狼星回答，“睡不著。”

Remus rolled onto his side, and peered across the bedroom, to where Sirius lay in his bed. He could clearly make out his pale outline, he was lying on his back, staring up at the canopy, arms behind his head.
雷穆斯側身，瞄向臥室的另一邊，那裡小天狼星躺在床上。他清楚地看見他的蒼白輪廓，他仰臥在床上，盯著天棚，雙臂放在頭後面。

“Not tired?” Remus asked. They’d both been in his bed, only an hour before. He felt the absence keenly, but there was nothing to be done about it.
“還不累嗎？”雷穆斯問。他們一小時前還在他的床上。他深刻地感受到這種缺失，但無可奈何。

“S’pose not. Keep thinking about tomorrow.”
“我想還好。一直在想明天的事。”

“Tomorrow?”
“明天？”

“Last day of the year.”
“今年的最後一天。”

“Yep.” It would be their last day alone, too. Everyone was due back on the first of January, and the bubble they had lived in for the past eleven days would burst. “Making resolutions?” Remus asked, yawning.
“是的。”這也會是他們最後一天獨處的時候。所有人預計在一月一號回來，過去十一天他們的泡沫生活將會破裂。“制定新年計劃？”雷穆斯問，打著哈欠。

“Not really. Just the usual stuff.” He sounded sad. “Stuff I should stop doing.”
“不太是。只是一些常規的東西。”他聽起來有點悲傷。“我應該停止做的事。”

“Well.” Remus thought quickly, “Why don’t you think about the stuff you want to do?”
“那麼。”雷穆斯迅速思考，“為什麼不考慮一下你想做的事呢？”

“Like what?”
“像什麼？”

“Oh, I dunno,” Remus stifled another yawn, “Like how you’re always talking about going to London? Muggle London. Properly, I mean, not just a dodgy squat in Mile End.”
“哦，我不知道，”雷穆斯壓抑著另一個哈欠，“像你總是說想去倫敦？麻瓜倫敦。我是說，真正地去，不只是去邊緣區的爛地方。”

“Oh yeah!” Sirius said, cheering up, “We should do that, in the summer. Can we go to Carnaby Street?”
“哦，是的！”小天狼星說，心情變得愉快，“我們應該在夏天去做這件事。我們可以去Carnaby Street嗎？”

“Don’t see why not.”
“我看沒什麼問題。”

“I want to learn to play guitar.”
“我想學彈吉他。”

“Of course you do…”
“當然你想……”

“And go camping.”
“還有去露營。”

“Mmm.”
“嗯。”

“And see Bowie in concert.”
“還有去看鮑伊的音樂會。”

Remus smiled, softly, listening to Sirius’s dreams as he drifted to sleep.
雷穆斯輕輕地微笑，聆聽著小天狼星的夢想，隨著他進入睡眠。

Monday 31st December 1976

“Do you know any sewing spells?” Remus asked, thoughtfully, sipping a mug of tea from his favourite armchair and looking up at the bedsheets which would have to come down today.
“你知道什麼縫紉魔咒嗎？”雷穆斯思索地問，一邊喝著他最喜歡的扶手椅上的一杯茶，一邊看著今天必須拆下的床單。

“Why would I know sewing spells?” Sirius asked, from the floor. He was sitting over a cauldron with a book beside him, trying to create his own fireworks to celebrate New Year’s Eve.
“我為什麼會知道縫紉魔咒？”小天狼星問，坐在地上。他正坐在一個鍋爐上，旁邊放著一本書，試圖創造自己的煙火來慶祝除夕夜。

“I was just thinking about the sheets…”
“我只是想到那些床單……”

“Pfft,” Sirius waved a hand, “They won’t even notice.”
“噗，”小天狼星揮了揮手，“他們甚至不會注意到。”

“Ought to fix that crystal ball we broke, too.”
“還應該修理一下我們打破的水晶球。”

“Nah.”
“不用。”

“And probably should look for those chess pieces that went- er - missing…” Two days ago they had accidently fired an entire set out of the window. They’d summoned most of the pieces back, but the queen and two knights were still in the bushes somewhere below.
“還有，可能應該去找那些棋子，它們……呃，丟了……”兩天前他們不小心把一整副棋子從窗戶裡射了出去。他們召回了大多數棋子，但皇后和兩個騎士仍然在下面的灌木叢中。

“Look, everyone knew it was just going to be the two of us here for Christmas,” Sirius replied, waving his wand carefully over the cauldron, “It was their responsibility to lock up anything they didn’t want to get shot out of the window.”
“看，大家都知道聖誕節只有我們兩個在這裡，”小天狼星回應道，小心地揮動著他的魔杖在鍋爐上，“這是他們的責任，把任何不希望被射出窗外的東西鎖起來。”

“And Peter’s bed?”
“彼得的床呢？”

“It’s stopped making that weird noise, now.”
“它現在不再發出那種奇怪的聲音了。”

“Yeah, but it still giggles when you sit on it.”
“是的，但坐上去還是會發出笑聲。”

“He’ll work out how to fix it, or get Desdemona to help him. You worry too much.”
“他會想辦法修好它，或者讓德斯德莫娜幫他。你太擔心了。”

BANG
砰

The contents of the cauldron exploded in Sirius’s face, knocking him backwards and filling the room with a plume of lime green smoke. Remus ran for the window, coughing, trying not to laugh at Sirius’s startled expression, face black with soot.
鍋爐中的內容物在小天狼星的臉上爆炸，把他向後推去，並充滿了整個房間的石灰綠煙霧。雷穆斯跑向窗戶，咳嗽著，試圖不笑出聲來，看著小天狼星驚訝的表情，臉上全是煙塵。

“I told you we should just ask Flitwick.”
“我早就說過我們應該去問弗利特維克。”

The dust settled, and now the whole room was covered with a fine green film. Remus raised an eyebrow. Sirius smirked,
灰塵沉降下來，整個房間現在覆蓋了一層細綠色的薄膜。雷穆斯抬起了眉毛。小天狼星得意地笑了，

“Leave it to the house elves? I’m having a shower.”
“把這個交給家養小精靈處理吧？我要去洗個澡。”

He did go to Flitwick, in the end, and the tiny Charms professor was only too pleased to impart some advice on creating the perfect fireworks – without any messy potions or cauldrons. “He made me promise not to tell McGonagall that he taught me, though,” Sirius laughed, “He’s really gone up in my estimation, ol’ Flitters.”
他最後確實去找了弗利特維克，那位小小的咒語教授很高興地提供了一些製作完美煙火的建議——而不需要任何麻煩的藥水或鍋爐。“不過他讓我答應不告訴麥格教授他教過我，”小天狼星笑著說，“老弗利特的形象在我心中真的是提升了不少。”

“Can’t believe you went without me. I’m best at Charms.” Remus muttered, as he climbed out of their bedroom window to sit on the ledge beside Sirius.
“真不敢相信你在我不在的時候去找了他。我在咒語方面最好。”雷穆斯咕噥著，一邊從他們的臥室窗戶爬出去，坐在小天狼星旁邊的窗台上。

“You were sleeping!” Sirius nudged him jovially.
“你當時在睡覺！”小天狼星愉快地撞了撞他。

“Still.” Remus grumbled, folding his arms against the cold. Their legs dangled precariously over the edge, but he wasn’t as afraid of heights as he had once been. Thank James’s relentless broom training for that. He’d only taken a nap earlier to ensure he would be able to stay up until midnight - which was now only minutes away.
“還是。”雷穆斯嘟囔著，雙臂抱著冷風。他們的腿在邊緣懸空，但他已經不再像以前那樣怕高了。多虧了詹姆斯那無情的掃帚訓練。他剛剛打了個小盹，確保自己能夠熬到午夜——而現在只剩幾分鐘了。

It was very quiet, outside, and other than the occasional animal noise rising from the Forbidden Forest, or the soft hooting of the owls in the owlery they might have been completely alone in the world. They were content to sit in this silence, as the last moments of 1976 slipped away under a frozen winter sky. Remus felt a deep sense of satisfaction and contentment. It was bittersweet. He was looking forward to seeing James, Peter and the girls again. He was looking forward to the spring term. But still, as soon as the Hogwarts Express pulled into the station the next afternoon, everything he and Sirius had shared over the past twelve nights would have to be tidied away and locked up until it was safe to resurface.
外面非常安靜，除了偶爾從禁忌森林傳來的動物聲音，或者貓頭鷹塔裡傳來的輕柔的貓頭鷹叫聲，他們可能感覺自己完全與世隔絕。他們滿足於在這份寂靜中坐著，直到1976年的最後時刻在冰凍的冬季天空下消逝。雷穆斯感受到深深的滿足和愉悅。這是苦樂參半的。他期待著再次見到詹姆斯、彼得和女孩們。他期待著春季學期。但即便如此，當霍格華茲快車在第二天下午進站時，他和小天狼星在過去十二夜間共享的一切，都必須收拾起來鎖起來，直到安全地重現。

Sirius raised his pocket watch - one he had received for his seventeenth birthday from the Potters. He held it up so that Remus could read it too. Five seconds to go. Sirius smiled at him, and squeezed his knee.
小天狼星舉起了他的懷錶——那是他從波特夫婦那裡收到的十七歲生日禮物。他舉起懷錶讓雷穆斯也能看到。還有五秒鐘。小天狼星對他微笑，並擠了擠他的膝蓋。

“Ready?” He lifted his wand.
“準備好了嗎？”他舉起了他的魔杖。

Remus grinned back, and nodded,
雷穆斯回以微笑，點了點頭，

“Ready.”
“準備好了。”

 

Chapter 104: Sixth Year: Bad Moon Rising 

Gather 'round all you people

Watch me while you can

Been trawling too long, I've been losing out strong

For the strength of another man

 

I've been hasty, wasty standing on the backstep

Waiting for the phone to ring

But this semi-acoustic love affair

Is driving me to the brink

 

I'm just looking for a friend

I'm just looking for a friend

You don't have to be a big wheel, you don't have to be the end

I'm just looking for, looking for a friend

 

 

 

Tuesday 1st January 1977
1977年1月1日，星期二

“Here they come!” Sirius was practically bouncing next to Remus as they watched the horseless carriages approaching the castle gates.
“他們來了！”小天狼星幾乎在雷穆斯旁邊跳躍著，看著無馬馬車接近城堡大門。

“Thank god.” Remus joked, “Some intelligent conversation.”
“謝天謝地。”雷穆斯開玩笑道，“終於可以有些聰明的對話了。”

“Oh shut up, you love me really.” Sirius kicked him in the shin.
“哦，閉嘴吧，你其實很愛我。”小天狼星踢了他的小腿。

I do, Remus thought, pitifully, I really bloody do. But of course, that was not what Sirius had meant.
“我確實愛你，”雷穆斯悲哀地想，“我真的非常愛你。”但當然，小天狼星並不是那個意思。

James disembarked from the mysteriously drawn carriages like a soldier returning from war. He and Sirius beamed at each other, until Remus thought that the two of them ought to be snogging, not Sirius and Remus. Lily and Peter climbed out of the carriage behind, and Remus hugged her and nodded to him.
詹姆斯從神秘驅動的馬車上下來，像是戰爭歸來的士兵。他和小天狼星對視而笑，直到雷穆斯覺得他們兩個應該接吻，而不是小天狼星和雷穆斯。莉莉和彼得從後面的馬車上下來，雷穆斯擁抱了她，並向他點了點頭。

“Good Christmas?” Lily asked, “Thanks for the chocolates!”
“聖誕節過得好嗎？”莉莉問道，“謝謝你的巧克力！”

“Thanks for the gloves,” he replied waving them at her to demonstrate, “Really warm.”
“謝謝你的手套，”他回應道，揮舞著手套示範，“真的很暖和。”

“Yeah, cheers for the gloves, Evans,” James waved his own wool covered hands.
“是的，謝謝你的手套，埃文斯，”詹姆斯揮舞著自己的毛線手。

Lily blushed deeply, and mumbled something about not wanting to leave anyone out.
莉莉深深地紅了臉，喃喃地說不想遺漏任何人。

Earlier, Remus and Sirius had walked alone through a castle of empty halls echoing and hushed with the whispers of the portraits and the eerie drifting ghosts. But as they all returned together, it was as if the school was transformed in an instant. The flagstones rattled with the busy chatter of friends reuniting, every arch and column filled with black robed students. Remus felt he was awakening from a strange and quiet dream.
早些時候，雷穆斯和小天狼星單獨走過空蕩的城堡，回響著肖像畫的低語和陰森的漂浮幽靈。但當他們一起回來時，學校彷彿瞬間變了樣。石板路上響起了朋友重逢的忙碌聊天聲，每個拱門和柱子都充滿了穿著黑袍的學生。雷穆斯感覺自己從一個奇怪而寂靜的夢中醒來。

It was incredible how quickly everything settled back to normal - Peter and Desdemona started a fight almost immediately, Lily hexed James halfway through dinner, Mary had tales of her newest boyfriend, which Marlene was rolling her eyes at. Sirius had eyes only for James, of course, but Remus was keenly aware of the looks he was getting from other quarters - all of the unanswered Christmas cards would be coming home to roost.
一切恢復正常的速度真是難以置信——彼得和德斯德莫娜幾乎立刻開始吵架，莉莉在晚餐中途對詹姆斯施了咒，瑪麗講述著她最新的男朋友，而瑪琳則翻了翻白眼。小天狼星當然只盯著詹姆斯，但雷穆斯敏銳地意識到自己從其他角度得到的目光——所有未回復的聖誕卡都將回來。

“So, what did you two get up to?” James asked, mouth full of roast beef, “You didn’t give much away when we spoke…”
“所以，你們兩個幹了什麼？”詹姆斯問道，嘴裡塞滿了烤牛肉，“我們談話時你們沒透露太多……”

Sirius and Remus looked at each other only for the tiniest moment, long enough for Remus to note the spark of panic in Sirius and grin at James,
小天狼星和雷穆斯僅僅對視了一小會兒，足夠雷穆斯注意到小天狼星眼中的恐慌火花，並對詹姆斯笑了笑，

“Spent most of it trying to keep Padfoot out of trouble, obviously.”
“顯然，大部分時間都在努力讓帕丁福特遠離麻煩。”

James and Peter laughed, and that was all anyone needed. Sirius settled back, shoulders lowering, and Remus watched him from underneath his eyelashes. This wasn’t going to work. It was all too impossible.
詹姆斯和彼得笑了，這就是大家所需的一切。小天狼星靠回去，放鬆了肩膀，雷穆斯從睫毛下看著他。這行不通。這一切太不可能了。

The night before, just before he drifted to sleep, Remus had made a decision. He had to talk to Sirius. The irony was not lost on him, that after days and days of nothing but talking, the solution seemed to be more talking. But this time he would make Sirius listen.
前一天晚上，就在他快要入睡時，雷穆斯做出了決定。他必須和小天狼星談談。諷刺的是，經過這麼多天的談話後，解決辦法似乎還是更多的談話。但這次他會讓小天狼星聽。

He only needed an opportunity, which he accepted would not be easy. Opportunity, and just a bit more time. He wasn’t brave enough just yet. Just now, every song he heard reminded him of Sirius; every soppy sentence in every novel. Maybe he wasn’t quite ready to give it all up.
他只需要一個機會，這並不容易。他需要機會，還有一點時間。他現在還不夠勇敢。此刻，每一首聽到的歌曲都讓他想起小天狼星；每本小說中的每一句肉麻話。也許他還沒準備好放棄這一切。

Sirius certainly wasn’t. Remus had tried questioning him, after everyone had been back for a few days, and Sirius had accepted an invitation to Hogsmeade from Emmeline Vance.
小天狼星肯定還沒準備好。大家回來幾天後，雷穆斯試著質問他，而小天狼星接受了艾米琳·凡斯的霍格莫德邀請。

“Don’t you think we ought to stop? Isn’t it a bit confusing for you?”
“你不覺得我們應該停止嗎？這對你來說不會有點混亂嗎？”

“Why would it be confusing? It’s not the same thing.” Sirius raised his eyebrows in genuine surprise.
“為什麼會混亂？這不是一回事。”小天狼星真誠地驚訝地揚起眉毛。

“Oh.” Remus said, quietly. He was glad they were in a cupboard, and it was dark, “Oh, isn’t it?”
“哦。”雷穆斯輕聲說。他慶幸他們在一個黑暗的櫥櫃裡，“哦，不是嗎？”

“Well, no. She’s a girl. You’re Moony.”
“嗯，不是的。她是個女孩。你是月亮臉。”

“What does that mean?”
“那是什麼意思？”

“It just means… you know. You and me… we’re not… and she… erm... oh, for goodness sake,” he got irritated, and gave up explaining, “I just can’t see any reason to stop, ok? It’s fun, isn’t it?”
“這只是意味著……你懂的。你和我……我們不是……而她……呃……哦，天哪，”他煩躁起來，放棄了解釋，“我只是看不到任何停止的理由，好嗎？這不是很有趣嗎？”

“Yeah.” Remus sighed.
“是的。”雷穆斯嘆了口氣。

“Look, if someone asked you out, that would be fine, obviously.”
“看，如果有人約你出去，那也沒問題，顯然。”

“Right.” Remus nodded, “That’s nice of you.”
“對。”雷穆斯點點頭，“你真好。”

“Oh, c’mon, don’t be like that…” Sirius started kissing his neck, and Remus was in no position to argue, after that.
“哦，拜託，別這樣……”小天狼星開始親吻他的脖子，雷穆斯此後無法再爭辯。

He’d had plenty of opportunities, really. He was as weak as Sirius, when all was said and done.
事實上，他有很多機會。他和小天狼星一樣軟弱，說到底。

Besides, it was just a secret – as Sirius had once said, long before everything got complicated; ‘you’re not Moony if you don’t have a secret’. He could do secrets. Except. It was getting harder – especially around the full moon, when his nerves were thinnest and every emotion burned just beneath the surface. Then he would see Sirius with some girl or another, watch as she picked fluff from his school jumper or straighten his tie or wrap her arms around his waist and he would want to tear her to pieces.
此外，這只是個秘密——就像小天狼星曾經說過的，早在一切變得複雜之前；“如果你沒有秘密，你就不是月亮臉。”他可以保守秘密。除了。這變得越來越困難——特別是在滿月前後，當他的神經最薄弱，每一種情感都在表面下燃燒。然後他會看到小天狼星和某個女孩在一起，看著她從他的校服毛衣上摘掉絨毛，或整理他的領帶，或把手臂圍在他的腰上，他會想要撕碎她。

Sometimes he thought it must be so obvious, surely everyone could tell – surely James could tell? Remus would be sitting with them, or walking beside them, or eating breakfast, and his eyes would catch Sirius’s, and how could no one else feel it?
有時候他覺得這一定很明顯，肯定每個人都能看出來——肯定詹姆斯能看出來？雷穆斯會坐在他們旁邊，或走在他們旁邊，或吃早餐，他的眼睛會捕捉到小天狼星的目光，怎麼可能沒有人感受到呢？

It made him feel guilty. Remus wondered if he was lying to Sirius even more than Sirius was lying to himself. Remus was being dishonest about what he wanted, about how much everything meant to him, and in the end he could see that he was confusing Sirius even more. The best thing was to lay everything out, then deal with the consequences.
這讓他感到內疚。雷穆斯想知道他是否比小天狼星對自己撒的謊更多。雷穆斯對自己想要的東西不誠實，對一切對他的意義不誠實，最終他可以看到，他讓小天狼星更加困惑。最好的辦法是把一切攤開來，然後處理後果。

Not yet, though. Maybe after the full moon.
不過還沒到那時候。也許在滿月之後。

 

星期四 1977年1月6日

Remus woke up outside. This was very wrong. The sky above was blue and cracked with clouds. There were trees, black, crooked branches. The breeze was cool on his skin, and the leaf litter soft and mulchy beneath him. Not right, but more pleasant than usual. He blinked against the morning light, and looked around, to see his three friends watching him cautiously. Sirius pulled off his cloak quickly, and handed it to Remus,
雷穆斯醒來時在外面。這很不對。頭頂的天空藍得裂開，佈滿雲朵。周圍有黑色的、扭曲的樹枝。微風在他的皮膚上輕拂，腳下的落葉柔軟而鬆軟。不對，但比平時愉快些。他眨眨眼，迎著晨光四下張望，看到三個朋友謹慎地看著他。小天狼星迅速脫下他的斗篷，遞給雷穆斯，

“Here, it’s chilly…”
“拿著，天有點冷……”

“What happened? Why aren’t we back in the shack?” Remus frowned, pulling the cloak around himself. He noticed that James was panting hard, and holding his arm in a strange way, “Did I hurt you, Prongs?”
“發生什麼事了？我們怎麼沒回到小屋？”雷穆斯皺眉，拉緊斗篷。他注意到詹姆斯喘得厲害，還用奇怪的方式握著胳膊，“我傷到你了嗎，叉子？”

“Not on purpose,” James shook his head, obviously keen to keep Remus calm, “You were… you kept trying to get away from us, that’s all. We couldn’t get you to follow us like normal, not even Padfoot.”
“不是故意的，”詹姆斯搖頭，顯然是想讓雷穆斯保持冷靜，“你……你一直在試圖逃離我們，就是這樣。我們無法像平時那樣讓你跟著我們，連帕丁福特也不行。”

“I remember…” Remus frowned, and climbed to his feet, “Were we hunting?”
“我記得……”雷穆斯皺眉，站起來，“我們在狩獵嗎？”

“You were.” Sirius said, looking at him oddly, “There was something you really wanted to get at. In Hogsmeade.”
“是你。”小天狼星奇怪地看著他，“你真的很想得到某樣東西。在霍格莫德。”

“In Hogsmeade..?” It all came flooding back like a bad dream. That scent. He’d smelled it first on Christmas Eve in the Hog’s Head, and even then he had known what it was. How could he be so stupid? “You’re sure you’re not hurt?” Remus asked, again, looking at James.
“在霍格莫德……？”一切如噩夢般湧上心頭。那股氣味。他第一次聞到是在聖誕夜的豬頭酒吧，甚至那時他就知道那是什麼。他怎麼能這麼愚蠢？“你確定沒受傷？”雷穆斯再次問道，看著詹姆斯。

James nodded fervently, his messy hair bobbing in the morning breeze.
詹姆斯熱切地點點頭，他凌亂的頭髮在晨風中擺動。

“Come on,” he jerked his head, “We’ve got to get you back to the shack before Madam Pomfrey gets there…”
“來吧，”他搖搖頭，“我們得在龐弗雷夫人到達之前把你帶回小屋……”

He followed them, treading gingerly over the stony forest floor in bare feet.
他光著腳小心翼翼地踩過石頭鋪成的森林地面，跟著他們走。

“We’re not too far,” Sirius said, walking slowly beside him, “We managed to sort of… shepherd you in the right direction... but you kept trying to give us the slip.”
“我們離得不遠了，”小天狼星慢慢地走在他旁邊說，“我們設法……把你引向正確的方向……但你一直試圖甩開我們。”

“You all have to go back to the castle,” Remus said, unable to meet their eyes, “I think… I think something might have happened last night.”
“你們都得回城堡，”雷穆斯說，無法直視他們的眼睛，“我覺得……我覺得昨晚可能發生了什麼事。”

“Nothing happened, Moony,” Peter said, “We didn’t lose sight of you once, honestly.”
“沒發生什麼事，月亮臉，”彼得說，“我們一次都沒失去對你的視線，真的。”

“That’s good,” Remus nodded. The shack was in sight now, “But you still ought to go. Trust me.”
“那很好，”雷穆斯點點頭。小屋現在已經看得見了，“但你們還是得走。相信我。”

Thankfully, they did; all still shaken by whatever had taken place just before Remus returned to his human body. Remus entered the shack, dressed and sat quietly on the bed to wait for Madam Pomfrey. She did not come. Instead, it was McGonagall who opened the trap door, almost an hour after daybreak.
幸運的是，他們照做了；所有人仍然因雷穆斯變回人形前發生的事情而感到震驚。雷穆斯進入小屋，穿好衣服，靜靜地坐在床上等龐弗雷夫人。她沒有來。取而代之的是麥格教授，她在天亮後將近一小時打開了暗門。

“Mr Lupin,” she said, in the usual brisk manner she used when a detention was forthcoming.
“盧平先生，”她用通常宣布留堂時的簡潔語氣說道。

“Where’s Madam Pomfrey?” He asked, feeling very cold all of a sudden.
“龐弗雷夫人在哪裡？”他問道，突然感到很冷。

“She’s on other business this morning, in Hogsmeade,” The professor said, her face lined with concern, “She asked me to attend you. Are you injured?”
“她今早有別的事，在霍格莫德，”教授說道，臉上滿是擔憂，“她讓我來照顧你。你受傷了嗎？”

“No, I’m fine. What happened in Hogsmeade?”
“不，我很好。霍格莫德發生了什麼事？”

“Come along, Lupin,” his teacher said, turning quickly back into the tunnel, “If you’re quite well, then we should be getting back to the castle as quickly as possible.”
“跟我來，盧平，”他的老師說，迅速轉回隧道，“如果你沒事，那我們應該盡快回到城堡。”

“Please,” he had to walk quickly to keep up with her, which wasn’t easy when your bones were still settling back into their usual positions, “Please, professor, what happened in Hogsmeade?”
“拜託，”他不得不快步走才能跟上她，這對骨骼還在回到原位的他來說並不容易，“拜託，教授，霍格莫德發生了什麼事？”

“I’m afraid I can’t--”
“恐怕我不能——”

“It was a werewolf, wasn’t it? An attack?”
“那是一隻狼人，對嗎？襲擊？”

“Remus.” She turned and looked at him. They were eye level, these days, and he was still growing. “How do you know?” She asked, sharply.
“雷穆斯。”她轉過身看著他。現在他們的視線在同一水平線上，而且他還在長高。“你怎麼知道的？”她尖銳地問道。

“I could smell it - the other one. I knew they were nearby. It wasn’t me! I swear.”
“我能聞到它——另一個。我知道他們在附近。不是我！我發誓。”

“No, we would know if you had escaped.” She seemed very sure about that, so he didn’t object.
“不是，我們會知道你是否逃脫。”她似乎非常肯定，所以他沒有反對。

“Was it bad?”
“情況很糟嗎？”

“...Yes.”
“……是的。”

“Someone’s dead?”
“有人死了？”

“I’m afraid so. Now I really can’t talk about it, so let’s just get you back to the castle, all right? I know that Poppy usually keeps you in the infirmary for a day or so to rest, but do you think you could go to your lessons as usual today? I think it might be best to avoid any suspicion.”
“恐怕是的。現在我真的不能談論這個，所以我們還是回到城堡，好嗎？我知道波比通常會讓你在醫院休息一兩天，但你認為你今天能像往常一樣上課嗎？我認為這可能是避免任何懷疑的最好方法。”

“Of course.”
“當然。”

“You can come to me if you feel unwell at any point.”
“如果你感到不適，可以隨時來找我。”

“I’ll be fine.” His voice was low and empty. He had never met another one. Now he knew there was one close by.
“我會沒事的。”他的聲音低沉而空洞。他從未見過其他狼人。現在他知道附近有一個。

“Remus,” McGonagall said, giving him a severe look, “This was not your fault. This was nobody's fault. Do you understand?”
“雷穆斯，”麥格教授嚴厲地看著他說，“這不是你的錯。這不是任何人的錯。你明白嗎？”

“Yes, professor.” It was better just to tell adults what they wanted to hear, most of the time. Perhaps he could write to Ferox, or even Moody. Remus desperately wanted to talk to Sirius about it privately, but he supposed he might have to wait a little while.
“是的，教授。”大多數時候，最好告訴成年人他們想聽的話。也許他可以寫信給菲羅克斯，甚至穆迪。雷穆斯迫切想私下跟小天狼星談談，但他猜他可能要等一會兒。

He knew it all, now. There had been another wolf in Hogsmeade over Christmas, and it had been waiting for the full moon. They had to be on Voldemort’s side – on Greyback’s side – because, in Remus’s opinion at least, you’d have to be mad or evil or both to place yourself near other people during a full moon. Ought he to have told somebody that he’d recognised the smell on Christmas eve? Could he have saved a life? He hadn’t been sure, and he hadn’t wanted to get in trouble for sneaking out.
現在他全都知道了。聖誕節期間霍格莫德有另一隻狼人，它一直在等待滿月。他們必須站在伏地魔的一邊——在格雷貝克的一邊——因為至少在雷穆斯看來，只有瘋子、惡棍或兩者兼而有之的人才會在滿月時將自己置於他人附近。他應該告訴別人他在聖誕夜認出了那股氣味嗎？他能救一條命嗎？他不確定，而且他也不想因為偷偷溜出來而惹上麻煩。

The breakfast hall was buzzing with the news; owls were flying back and forth. Lily sat deliberately next to Remus and squeezed his hand under the table. He squeezed back, gratefully, and thought how easy it would be to fall in love with her if he was that type of man.
早餐廳充滿了這個消息的嗡嗡聲；貓頭鷹來回飛行。莉莉故意坐在雷穆斯旁邊，在桌子下握住他的手。他感激地回握，想著如果他是那種人，愛上她會是多麼容易。

“It’s horrible,” Marlene said, tearfully, reading the paper over Mary’s shoulder. “That poor woman, murdered in her bed…”
“太可怕了，”馬琳含淚說，從瑪麗肩膀上看報紙。“那個可憐的女人，被謀殺在床上……”

It had been a young couple, who had moved to Hogsmeade in November. Both magical, but she was muggle born. She was dead, her husband bitten and apparently at St. Mungo’s. Their wedding photo graced the front page of the Prophet, and made Remus sick to look at.
那是一對年輕夫婦，十一月搬到霍格莫德。兩人都是巫師，但她是麻瓜出生。她死了，她的丈夫被咬，顯然在聖芒戈醫院。他們的婚禮照片登上了《預言家日報》的頭版，雷穆斯看了就覺得噁心。

“Is it still on the loose?” Remus asked, keeping the hand which was not holding Lily’s flat on the table, so nobody could see him trembling.
“它還在逃嗎？”雷穆斯問，將沒有握著莉莉的手平放在桌子上，這樣沒人能看到他在顫抖。

“Looks like,” Mary confirmed, still engrossed in the article, “No one could catch it. Tonight’s not a full moon, so we’re all safe for at least another month, I suppose… that’s the trouble with werewolves, if you don’t catch them on the moon, then how are you supposed to catch them at all?”
“看起來是的，”瑪麗確認道，仍然全神貫注於文章，“沒人能抓住它。今晚不是滿月，所以我猜我們至少再安全一個月……這就是狼人問題，如果你不在滿月時抓住他們，那你根本就抓不住他們？”

“There must be a test, or something,” Marlene frowned, “A revealing charm.”
“一定有什麼測試，或者其他東西，”馬琳皺眉道，“一個揭示咒語。”

“Yeah,” Mary replied, thoughtfully, “Maybe… but then you might end up finding the wrong one…”
“是啊，”瑪麗若有所思地回答，“也許……但這樣你可能會找到錯的那個……”

“Well, it sounds like they’re all on you-know-who’s side anyway, so I don’t think it matters—”
“嗯，聽起來他們都站在你知道的那個人那邊，所以我覺得無所謂——”

“Let’s talk about something else.” Lily said, loudly.
“我們聊點別的吧。”莉莉大聲說。

“Yeah,” James nodded, “Defence Against the Darks Arts next – anyone had any luck with their patronus, yet?”
“好吧，”詹姆斯點頭，“下一節是黑魔法防禦術——有人成功召喚出護法了嗎？”

Only James had, so far. Half an hour later, the class stood slack-jawed and watched James produce a spectacular silver stag, which galloped ghostly around the room. The teacher applauded, and invited everyone else to try – with varying levels of success. Lily managed a wisp of something, but it wasn’t clear yet what it was. Peter had no luck at all, and (to the surprise of nobody) Sirius cast something distinctly dog-shaped, but without the solid brightness of James’s creation.
目前為止只有詹姆斯成功了。半小時後，全班目瞪口呆地看著詹姆斯召喚出一隻壯觀的銀色雄鹿，它如幽靈般在房間裡奔跑。老師鼓掌，邀請其他人嘗試——成功程度不一。莉莉召喚出一縷東西，但尚不清楚那是什麼。彼得完全沒有成功，（沒人驚訝）小天狼星召喚出明顯是狗形的東西，但沒有詹姆斯的護法那麼明亮。

Remus didn’t so much as feel his wand flinch. He oughtn’t to have been surprised – on a morning like that it was impossible to pin down a happy thought for very long, besides which, he was exhausted from the full moon.
雷穆斯的魔杖連動都沒有動。他不應該感到驚訝——在那樣的早晨，根本無法長時間抓住一個快樂的念頭，況且，他因滿月而筋疲力盡。

“You’ll get, it, Moony,” Sirius encouraged, patting him awkwardly on the back as they left the classroom. “You always do.”
“你會成功的，月亮臉，”小天狼星鼓勵道，當他們離開教室時尷尬地拍了拍他的背。“你總是能做到的。”

Remus nodded, wondering what Sirius’s happy thought was. Remus had been using various memories of their Christmas together, though with poor results.
雷穆斯點點頭，想知道小天狼星的快樂念頭是什麼。雷穆斯一直在用他們一起過聖誕節的各種回憶，儘管效果不佳。

“My mind’s elsewhere, to be honest,” he said, quietly, so that only Sirius could hear him.
“說實話，我的心思在別處，”他輕聲說，只有小天狼星能聽見。

“Of course,” Sirius replied, just as quietly, “That’s to be expected.”
“當然，”小天狼星同樣輕聲回答，“這是意料之中的。”

“I knew about it.” Remus whispered, quickly, as the last few students left the room. Sirius stopped, staring at him with that awful look he’d had that morning. Remus grabbed his arm, “I mean, not exactly, I didn’t know that would happen, but…”
“我知道這件事。”雷穆斯迅速低聲說，當最後幾個學生離開房間時。小天狼星停下來，用早上那種可怕的眼神盯著他。雷穆斯抓住他的手臂，“我是說，不完全是，我不知道會發生那件事，但……”

Sirius closed the door behind the last student, and whispered a silencing spell.
小天狼星在最後一個學生身後關上門，低聲施了一個靜音咒。

“But what?”
“但什麼？”

“Remember when we went to the Hog’s Head?” Remus said, quickly, and still whispering because he couldn’t seem to raise his voice. Sirius nodded, “I smelled something.”
“記得我們去豬頭酒吧的時候嗎？”雷穆斯迅速說，仍然低聲說，因為他似乎無法提高聲音。小天狼星點點頭，“我聞到了一些東西。”

“I thought you were just pissed…”
“我以為你只是喝醉了……”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, “I think maybe I did too – or I thought it was… um… well, you, because I wanted…” he cleared his throat, “Anyway, it was definitely another one. A werewolf. I think it was female.”
“是啊，”雷穆斯點點頭，“我想也許我也是這麼想的——或者我以為那是……嗯……好吧，是你，因為我想……”他清了清喉嚨，“總之，那絕對是另一個。狼人。我想她是女性。”

“Not Greyback, then.” Sirius said, with a look of immense relief.
“那就不是格雷貝克了。”小天狼星說，顯得極為鬆了口氣。

“No.” Remus said.
“不。”雷穆斯說。

“Well, thank Godric for that.” Sirius grasped Remus’s shoulder. His face turned to worry again, just as quickly, “But Moony, if you could smell them, do you think that they could…”
“那真是太好了。”小天狼星抓住雷穆斯的肩膀。他的臉又迅速變得擔憂，“但月亮臉，如果你能聞到他們，你認為他們可以……”

“I don’t know. I think so.”
“我不知道。我想是的。”

“Ok. Ok, well they didn’t come after you, so… Everything will be fine.” He was still holding Remus by the shoulder, keeping him in place, like an anchor. It was desperately needed, Remus thought. Every instinct in him said to run.
“好吧。好吧，他們沒來找你，所以……一切都會好的。”他還是抓著雷穆斯的肩膀，把他固定在原地，像一個錨。雷穆斯想，這是非常需要的。他的每一個本能都在說要逃跑。

Remus thought for a moment Sirius might kiss him, but they had another lesson to go to, and the DADA teacher had returned, knocking on his own classroom door in confusion. Sirius looked disappointed (or at least, Remus thought so – it might have been wishful thinking) and gave a final squeeze before they parted.
雷穆斯想了一會兒，小天狼星可能會吻他，但他們還有另一節課要上，而且黑魔法防禦術老師已經回來了，困惑地敲著自己的教室門。小天狼星看起來很失望（至少，雷穆斯這麼想——這可能是他的一廂情願），在他們分開前最後擠了一下。

“Don’t tell James!” Remus said, hurriedly, as they unlocked the door, “Please, don’t tell anyone.”
“不要告訴詹姆斯！”雷穆斯匆忙說，當他們打開門時，“拜託，不要告訴任何人。”

“Ok, Moony,” Sirius nodded slowly, “Anything you want.”
“好的，月亮臉，”小天狼星慢慢點頭，“你要什麼我都會做。”

 

 

 

Chapter 105: Sixth Year: Spilling Secrets 

Friday 14th January 1977

Remus tossed and turned under his bedsheets, unable to settle. His bed at Hogwarts rated as one of the most comfortable he had ever slept in – a close second to the one he used at the Potter’s, anyway. Rarely had he ever struggled to sleep in it. But the past few nights had been almost entirely sleepless.
雷木斯在床上翻來覆去，無法入睡。他在霍格華茲的床被評為他睡過的最舒適的床之一——至少與他在波特家用的床相比接近第二名。他很少在這張床上難以入睡。但過去幾晚幾乎完全無法入睡。

He couldn’t stop thinking about the werewolf in Hogsmeade, about the poor dead woman, and the man who would wake up in St Mungo’s to find that his entire life had been destroyed. Remus had been afflicted for as long as he could remember – the thought of this man being forced to transform for the first time – probably alone, probably still grieving. It was unbearable. He felt a horrible, unmoveable sense of guilt.
他無法停止思考霍格斯密的狼人、那個可憐的死去的女人，以及那個會在聖蒙戈醫院醒來發現整個生活被摧毀的男人。雷木斯從記憶開始就一直受到詛咒——想到這個男人第一次被迫變身——可能是獨自一人，可能還在哀悼。這讓人無法忍受。他感到一種可怕的、無法移動的內疚感。

So Remus did not sleep. He had been resorting to reading most of the night, until he couldn’t keep his eyes open any longer. Tonight, he couldn’t even concentrate on a book.
所以雷木斯沒有睡覺。他幾乎整晚都在讀書，直到他再也無法睜開眼睛。今晚，他甚至無法專注於一本書。

He rolled onto his front, to see if that would help. No, his face was all squashed in his pillow that way. He rolled on his side, but this made his hip hurt. The other side made his ear too hot. He groaned under his breath.
他翻到身子的一側，看看是否會有幫助。不，這樣他的臉被擠壓在枕頭上。他側身，卻使他的臀部感到疼痛。另一邊則使他的耳朵太熱。他低聲呻吟。

“Oi, Moony,” Sirius whispered, as the curtains parted, “What’s wrong?” He crawled inside silently, with a quick lumos and a silencing spell. He knelt at the end of the bed, looking at Remus.
“喂，月亮狼，”小天狼星低聲說，拉開窗簾，“怎麼了？”他靜靜地爬了進來，施了個光明咒和靜音咒。他跪在床邊，看著雷木斯。

“Sorry, did I wake you up?” Remus squinted at the unnecessary brightness.
“對不起，我把你吵醒了嗎？”雷木斯瞇著眼看著那不必要的亮光。

“Yeah, but it’s ok.” Sirius shifted and plonked himself down next to Remus.
“是的，但沒關係。”小天狼星移了移身體，重重地坐在雷木斯旁邊。

“Oh,” Remus twisted his mouth, embarrassed, “Look, I’m not really in the mood for…”
“哦，”雷木斯扭了扭嘴巴，感到尷尬，“看，我現在真的沒心情……”

“Oh, no, me neither! I mean… well, actually, now you mention it… but no, not why I came over.”
“哦，不，我也沒有！我的意思是……其實，現在你提到這個……但不是我過來的原因。”

“Right.”
“對。”

“So, what’s up?”
“那麼，怎麼了？”

“Can’t sleep.”
“無法入睡。”

“I can tell. Want a fag?”
“我能看出來。要抽根煙嗎？”

“Run out.”
“沒有了。”

“It’s ok, I’ve got some off Emmeline. C’mon, shall we go downstairs? It's late, no one’ll be there and Prongs’ll give us shit if we smoke here.”
“沒關係，我有一些是從艾美琳那裡弄來的。來吧，我們下樓去吧？現在很晚了，沒人會在那裡，還有，如果我們在這裡抽煙，角狼會給我們麻煩的。”

“Ok.” Remus pretended to go reluctantly. Secretly he was thrilled that:
“好的。”雷木斯假裝不情願地去。秘密裡他很興奮的是：

Sirius was worried about him, and;
小天狼星擔心他，並且；

Sirius wanted to spend time alone with him without waking up James.
小天狼星想和他單獨待會兒而不吵醒詹姆斯。

The fact that the offered cigarettes came from Sirius’s current girlfriend was a fact Remus was willing to overlook for now. Downstairs, they settled by the window, on the little loveseat there. Both drew their knees up and sat facing each other, so that if Remus stretched just a little their toes would touch.
提供的香煙來自小天狼星現在的女朋友，這一點雷木斯現在願意忽略。下樓後，他們在那裡的小沙發旁坐下了。兩人都把膝蓋縮起來，面對面坐著，以便雷木斯稍微伸展一下腳趾就能碰到對方。

“So,” Sirius sucked in, lighting a cigarette wordlessly then passing it to Remus, before lighting his own. It was probably something that impressed girls. It impressed Remus too, but he wasn't going to show it. “What's the plan?”
“那麼，”小天狼星吸了一口，無言點燃一支香煙，然後把它遞給雷木斯，接著點燃自己的香煙。這可能是會讓女孩印象深刻的事。雷木斯也覺得印象深刻，但他不打算表現出來。“計劃是什麼？”

“Plan?” Remus frowned.
“計劃？”雷木斯皺著眉頭。

“You’ve been up all night for the past three nights and you haven’t got a plan?! Are you sure you’re Moony??”
“你這幾晚都沒睡過，你還沒有計劃？！你確定你是月亮狼嗎？”

“I want to go back to The Hog’s Head.” Remus said, promptly.
“我想回到酒吧頭。”雷木斯迅速地說。

Sirius let his eyes flicker, but took this news in slowly. He exhaled smoke, looking out of the dark window at the waning moon above them before returning to Remus to speak.
小天狼星的眼神閃爍了一下，但慢慢接受了這個消息。他吐了口煙，望向窗外那微弱的月亮，然後回頭對雷木斯說話。

“Right. Ok, I think I can understand why.” He took a hard drag on his cigarette, “Invisible?”
“對。好的，我想我能理解為什麼。”他狠狠地抽了一口煙，“隱形？”

“No.” Remus shook his head, taking short, nervous pulls on his fag, “No, if they’re there – if she’s there, then I want to meet her.”
“不。”雷木斯搖頭，短暫而緊張地抽了一口煙，“不，如果他們在那裡——如果她在那裡，那麼我想見她。”

“Remus. No.”
“雷木斯。不行。”

“Why not?” Remus shot back, hotly. He was ready for a fight, if Sirius wanted one. That would feel good; that would be something.
“為什麼不？”雷木斯激烈地反駁。如果小天狼星想打架，他已經準備好了。那會讓人感覺好一些；那會是什麼。

“Because it's dangerous?! Because you’ve never met them before and you don’t know what they’re like except that they murdered a woman the other night?! Because you’re not even seventeen yet and if you have to defend yourself with magic you could get kicked out of school??”
“因為這很危險？！因為你從未見過他們，你不知道他們是什麼樣的人，只知道他們前晚殺了一個女人？！因為你還不到十七歲，如果你必須用魔法自衛，你可能會被開除？”

Sirius was staring at him as he said all of this, incredulous. Remus blinked in shock. He stubbed out his cigarette and stood up, using his height against Sirius,
小天狼星在說這些話時盯著他，感到不可置信。雷木斯震驚地眨了眨眼。他熄滅了香煙，站起來，利用自己的身高對抗小天狼星，

“You can’t tell me what to do. Just don’t get in my way.”
“你不能告訴我該怎麼做。只要別擋我路就行了。”

“Don’t be like that! Look, I understand how you feel--”
“別這樣！看，我理解你的感受——”

“Ha.”
“哈。”

“Ok, I don’t understand,” Sirius shook his head impatiently, “but I want you to be safe!”
“好的，我不理解，”小天狼星不耐煩地搖頭，“但我希望你安全！”

“I will be - it’s ages until the next full moon, she won’t have any advantage over me--”
“我會的——下次滿月還有很久，她不會對我有任何優勢——”

“Don’t you think this is exactly what Greyback wants?!”
“你不覺得這正是格雷巴克想要的嗎？！”

“What are you saying?” Remus growled. “That I’m being stupid?”
“你在說什麼？”雷木斯低聲咆哮。“你是說我很愚蠢嗎？”

“No, not stupid, just… reckless.”
“不，不是愚蠢，只是……魯莽。”

“Sirius Black, lecturing me on recklessness? Very bloody funny, that.”
“小天狼星·布萊克，給我講授魯莽？真是特別好笑。”

“Oi.” Sirius stood up now, angry.
“喂。”小天狼星現在站起來，生氣。

Yes, here we go, something in Remus said, go on, try it.
是的，來了，雷木斯心裡想，來吧，試試吧。

“Well it’s pretty rich of you to tell me not to put myself in danger.” Remus continued, knowing he was being cruel, “You weren’t so concerned about my safety this time last year!”
“嗯，你告訴我不要把自己置於危險中，這真是夠有錢的。”雷木斯繼續說，知道自己有些殘忍，“去年這個時候你可沒那麼擔心我的安全！”

Sirius’s face fell, he looked down at the carpet and Remus saw what he had done.
小天狼星的臉色變了，他看向地毯，雷木斯看到了他所做的事。

“That’s… that’s not fair, Moony.” Sirius said, quietly.
“那……那不公平，月亮狼。”小天狼星低聲說。

Life’s not fair, Remus wanted to say - but he knew how childish and petulant that would sound. This wasn’t an argument either of them was going to win, and he was tired, so exhausted from worrying and thinking and imagining and not sleeping.
雷木斯想說，生活不公平——但他知道那聽起來會多麼幼稚和任性。這不是他們任何一方能贏得的爭論，而且他很累，因為擔心、思考、想像和無法入睡而感到疲憊。

“I have to meet them.” He said, finally. “I think I’ll go mad otherwise. I think I’m already going mad.”
“我必須見他們。”他最終說，“否則我覺得我會瘋掉。我覺得我已經快瘋了。”

“Ok.” Sirius recovered, and ran his hand through his hair. “Ok, what about Ferox, have you tried talking to him?”
“好的。”小天狼星恢復了過來，手插進頭髮裡。“好的，那費羅克斯怎麼樣，你試過和他談談嗎？”

“Thought about it. He’ll try to stop me. Moody too. It’s their idea not to let me go to Hogsmeade in the first place.”
“考慮過了。他會試圖阻止我。穆迪也是。他們的主意是不讓我去霍格斯密。”

“All right… all right, we’ll go, ok? Together. We’ll tell James, and--”
“好吧……好吧，我們去，好嗎？一起去。我們會告訴詹姆斯，然後——”

“I don’t want anyone else to know.” Remus said, fiercely, “It’s private.”
“我不想讓其他人知道。”雷木斯激烈地說，“這是私事。”

“Merlin, Moony, you’re not making this easy--”
“梅林啊，月亮狼，你讓這事變得不容易——”

“It’s not easy! It’s fucking difficult, ok, but I have to do it!”
“這不容易！這他媽的很難，好吧，但我必須做到！”

“Ok!” Sirius raised both hands in a peace-making gesture.
“好的！”小天狼星雙手舉起，表示和解。

We’re fighting, Remus thought, we’re fighting and he’s the one trying to calm me down. That made him feel a bit dizzy, and he sat down on the nearest sofa. He leaned forward, head in his hands.
我們在爭吵，雷木斯想，我們在爭吵，而他卻在試圖讓我冷靜下來。這讓他有點暈眩，他坐在最近的沙發上，身子前傾，頭埋在雙手裡。

“I’m sorry,” he said, in a small voice, “I know I’m being… it’s just all so…”
“對不起，”他小聲說，“我知道我很……這一切都……”

“I do understand, Moony.” Sirius sat next to him. “I’m trying to help.”
“我理解的，月亮狼。”小天狼星坐在他旁邊。“我在試圖幫助。”

“You can’t help,” Remus said, “I have to do this on my own, I can’t risk anyone else, it has to be me, I have to…” Remus began talking, and it all came out in a jumble of sleep-deprived babble. “If I can meet her, then maybe… I have to meet Greyback, one day. I just know I have to. And I want to - not to join him, or anything like that, just to - to know him. And to understand. Why he did what he did and why… why he made me who I am.”
“你不能幫忙，”雷木斯說，“我必須自己做這事，我不能冒其他人的風險，必須是我，我必須……”雷木斯開始說話，所有話語都在睡眠不足的胡言亂語中湧出。“如果我能見到她，那也許……我有一天必須見到格雷巴克。我知道我必須這樣做。而且我想——不是要加入他，或其他那樣的事，只是——了解他。並理解。他為什麼做了他所做的事，以及為什麼……為什麼他讓我成為我現在的樣子。”

Tears had sprung out of nowhere, and he covered his face, ashamed. Sirius was quiet beside him.
淚水突然湧出，他捂住臉，感到羞愧。小天狼星在他旁邊安靜地坐著。

“Moony…” he laid a cool, tentative hand on Remus’s shoulder, lightly, as if Remus might spin around and snap at him like a wild animal, “He didn’t make you who you are.”
“月亮狼……”他輕輕地把冰涼的手放在雷木斯的肩上，像是雷木斯會突然轉身像野獸一樣咬他，“他沒有讓你成為你現在的樣子。”

“He made me what I am.” Oh god, he was sobbing, now. He wished he hadn’t started this whole conversation, wished he’d just sent Sirius back to bed.
“他把我變成了現在的樣子。”哦天啊，他現在哭得很厲害。他希望自己沒開始這整個對話，希望自己只是把小天狼星送回床上。

The last time he’d cried had been a similar situation - he had been sitting next to a boy he loved, saying something which hurt to say. Grant had held him, and made him feel like everything would be all right. Remus knew he had no right to expect the same from Sirius.
上次他哭的時候是類似的情況——他坐在他愛的男孩旁邊，說出一些傷人的話。格蘭特擁抱了他，讓他覺得一切都會好起來。雷木斯知道他無權期望小天狼星能給予同樣的安慰。

As Remus’s shoulders began to shake with emotion, Sirius moved slightly, but he didn’t go anywhere. Remus heard him give a strange little noise – which might have been sympathetic, or just confused, but he shifted closer and slid his hand down into Remus’s and squeezed his fingers. Pathetically, Remus squeezed back as he wept angrily about Greyback, and the poor murdered woman, and the dreadful unfairness of everything.
當雷木斯的肩膀開始因情緒而顫抖時，小天狼星稍微移動了一下，但他沒有離開。雷木斯聽到他發出了一聲奇怪的小聲音——可能是同情，也可能是困惑，但他向雷木斯靠近，把手滑進雷木斯的手中，緊緊握住他的手指。可憐的是，雷木斯在憤怒地哭泣關於格雷巴克、那個可憐的被殺女人，以及一切的可怕不公平時，手指也回握住小天狼星。

 

* * *

 

Saturday 15th January 1977

Remus woke up at dawn, still curled up on the couch, covered in a woollen blanket from the dresser kept in the corner of the common room. He frowned against the sunlight, blinking and confused while he slowly remembered where he was. Sirius was still there, at the other end, sitting up with his head lolling back in sleep, mouth open. Of course Sirius didn’t snore.
雷木斯在黎明時分醒來，仍然蜷縮在沙發上，裹著一條從公共休息室角落的衣櫃裡拿出來的毛毯。他皺起眉頭對抗陽光，眨眼且困惑地慢慢記起自己身在何處。小天狼星仍然在那邊，坐著，頭靠在後面睡著了，嘴巴張開。當然，小天狼星不打鼾。

Remus wished he could watch him for a bit longer in the dim early light, but he had been scrunched up all night and desperately needed to stretch. He moved carefully, his stiff limbs creaking like the branches of an ancient yew. Sirius stirred, coughed lightly and opened his eyes.
雷木斯希望能在昏暗的清晨光線中多看一會兒他，但他整夜蜷縮著，急需伸展。他小心翼翼地移動，僵硬的四肢像古老的紫杉樹枝一樣發出吱吱聲。小天狼星醒來了，輕輕咳嗽了一下，睜開了眼睛。

“Morning,” he grunted, straightening up. “What time is it?”
“早安，”他咕噥道，挺直身子。“現在幾點？”

“Nearly seven.” Remus replied, after a quick glance at the grandfather clock.
“差不多七點。”雷木斯回答道，快速瞥了一眼落地鐘。

“James’ll be up for quidditch in a minute.”
“詹姆斯一會兒就要起來打魁地奇了。”

“Yeah.”
“是的。”

“You ok?”
“你還好嗎？”

Remus set his bare feet down on the carpet and rubbed the pins and needles out of his left leg.
雷木斯把赤腳放在地毯上，揉搓著左腿上的刺痛感。

“I slept, at least.” He replied. “Sorry for last night.”
“至少我睡了。”他回答說。“對不起昨晚。”

“Pff.” Sirius waved his hand, yawning, “It was nothing. I’ve had much worse meltdowns.”
“噗。”小天狼星揮了揮手，打著哈欠，“沒什麼。我以前經歷過更糟糕的崩潰。”

“What are you two tossers doing down here at this hour?” James came bounding down the stairs, broom in hand. He looked at them both, took in their pyjamas and Remus’s blanket. “Did you sleep here?”
“你們這兩個傢伙在這個時候在這裡幹什麼？”詹姆斯拿著掃帚奔下樓梯。他看著他們倆，注意到他們穿著睡衣和雷木斯的毛毯。“你們在這裡睡了嗎？”

“Had to,” Sirius replied, stretching, “Anything to get away from your snoring.”
“不得不這樣，”小天狼星回答，伸展身體，“無論如何都要逃離你的鼾聲。”

James grinned, shaking his head.
詹姆斯咧嘴笑了，搖了搖頭。

“Weirdos. Don’t fancy joining me for a quick go around the pitch before practice, Padfoot?”
“一群怪胎。想不想跟我一起在練習前快速繞場地一圈，帕德腳？”

“Nah,” Sirius yawned again, “I’m going back to bed. It’s Saturday, Potter, you lunatic.”
“不，”小天狼星再次打著哈欠，“我要回去睡覺。今天是星期六，波特，你這個瘋子。”

“It’s Hogsmeade, later, don’t oversleep.” James warned, “Sorry, Moony.” He gave an apologetic glance.
“稍後要去霍格斯密，別睡過頭了。”詹姆斯警告說，“對不起，月亮狼。”他給了雷木斯一個抱歉的眼神。

“S’ok,” Remus replied, “You lot go and have fun. I’ve got homework. Obviously. The common room will be nice and quiet.”
“沒關係，”雷木斯回答，“你們去玩吧。我有作業要做。顯然。公共休息室會很安靜。”

“See you both for breakfast, then?” James asked, halfway out of the room already, eager to be the first on the pitch.
“那早餐見吧？”詹姆斯問，已經半出房間，急於成為第一個到達場地的人。

The common room would start filling up, soon - the Gryffindor quidditch team first, then some of the keener students looking to get their homework out of the way before the trip into the village scheduled for later. Remus looked at Sirius,
公共休息室很快就會開始熱鬧起來——首先是格蘭芬多的魁地奇隊，然後是一些急於在稍後的村莊之行之前完成作業的學生。雷木斯看向小天狼星，

“Are you really going back to bed?”
“你真的要回去睡覺嗎？”

Sirius raised an eyebrow.
小天狼星挑了挑眉。

“Yeah. Want to come?”
“是的。想來嗎？”

For the first time in days, Remus laughed.
幾天來第一次，雷木斯笑了。

“Hi Remus, can I sit here?”
“嗨，雷木斯，我可以坐這裡嗎？”

Remus looked up with a small frown that had more to do with a complex Astronomy chart than being interrupted. He smiled as soon as he saw who it was, and nodded,
雷木斯抬頭時皺起了小眉頭，這更多是因為複雜的天文圖表而不是被打擾。他一看到對方是誰就笑了起來，點了點頭，

“Of course, Chris, take your pick.” He motioned to the five empty chairs at the table he was using. Christopher sat just one seat away from Remus. “Didn’t fancy Hogsmeade?”
“當然，克里斯，隨便選吧。”他示意那張桌子上的五把空椅子。克里斯多坐在雷木斯旁邊一個座位上。“不想去霍格斯密嗎？”

“Oh, well, I knew you couldn’t go, and I’m behind on a few things, so…” Christopher looked slightly nervous. He sat with his notebooks and parchment clutched in his lap, eyeing Remus shiftily.
“哦，我知道你不能去，而且我還有一些事情沒做完，所以……”克里斯托弗看起來有點緊張。他坐著，膝蓋上放著筆記本和羊皮紙，警惕地看著雷木斯。

“Er… did you want to get your work out?” Remus prompted, vaguely amused.
“呃……你想做你的作業嗎？”雷木斯提示道，有些好笑。

“Yeah! Sorry…” Christopher quickly started spreading out his notes, awkwardly, blushing fiercely.
“是的！對不起……”克里斯托弗迅速地把筆記展開，尷尬地臉紅。

“You ok, Chris?”
“你還好嗎，克里斯？”

“Mm hmm, yep…”
“嗯嗯，是的……”

“Ok. Well, I’m doing Astronomy and making a proper mess of it. You’re quite good at stars and stuff, aren’t you?”
“好吧。我在做天文作業，搞得一團糟。你對星星之類的東西很在行，不是嗎？”

“Yeah. I mean not brilliant. But ok, yeah, er… want me to look?”
“是的。我的意思是還不是很出色。但還好，是的，呃……要我看看嗎？”

“Thanks,” Remus slid over his chart.
“謝謝，”雷木斯把他的圖表滑過去。

“Oh right, I can see where you’ve gone wrong, you’re a few degrees out…” Christopher pulled out his compass and began plotting a new trajectory for Venus. Remus was quite happy to let him get on with it, and started flicking through his planner. He had History to do, but had perversely planned to save it for last as a treat. He could probably tell Christopher that to lighten the mood; it was the sort of thing Chris did too. Sirius would only shake his head in bafflement and call him a swot.
“哦，我看到你哪裡搞錯了，你偏差了幾度……”克里斯托弗拿出他的羅盤，開始為金星繪製新的軌跡。雷木斯很樂意讓他繼續進行，並開始翻看他的計劃本。他有歷史作業要做，但出於一種逆反心理計劃把它留到最後當作獎勳。他可以告訴克里斯托弗來輕鬆一下心情；這也是克里斯做的事。小天狼星只會困惑地搖搖頭，叫他書呆子。

He was just about to say something, when Christopher beat him to it.
他正要說些什麼時，克里斯托弗搶先了。

“I started reading some muggle books.” He said, in a rush, as if he had been building up to it for a while. “Over Christmas.”
“我開始讀一些麻瓜書了。”他匆忙地說，好像他已經酝酿了一段時間。“在聖誕節期間。”

“Did you?” Remus smiled, politely. He’d been telling Christopher for ages that he was limiting himself by not reading books by non-magical authors. “How’d you get on?”
“是嗎？”雷木斯禮貌地笑了笑。他已經告訴克里斯托弗很久了，不讀非魔法作者的書是在限制自己。“你讀得怎麼樣？”

“Yeah! It’s been great. I like poetry best…” It was a fairly innocuous statement, but Christopher looked as though he was spilling his very darkest secret. His cheeks were crimson now, and he wasn’t looking at Remus when he spoke. “I er… I like Oscar Wilde, a lot.”
“是的！讀得很好。我最喜歡詩……”這是一個相當無害的聲明，但克里斯托弗看起來好像在洩露他最黑暗的秘密。他的臉頰現在紅得像火一樣，說話時不看雷木斯。“我呃……我非常喜歡奧斯卡·王爾德。”

“Oh?” Remus replied, steadily, wondering where this was going.
“哦？”雷木斯穩定地回答，想知道接下來會怎樣。

He thought he had a pretty good idea what Christopher was getting at, actually, but he needed to stall for time while he worked out how to react. Surely they weren’t going to talk about this here and now, at three o’clock on a Saturday in an only half empty common room? There were first years playing gobstones on the carpet, for goodness sake!
他其實對克里斯托弗想表達的內容有了相當清楚的想法，但他需要拖延時間，以便弄清楚如何反應。他們不會在這裡、現在，星期六下午三點，僅半滿的公共休息室裡討論這個話題吧？天哪，地毯上還有一年級學生在玩石子！

“Yes, and… and Christopher Isherwood.” Chris continued, valiantly. It was brave, Remus decided. It was maybe the bravest thing he had ever witnessed.
“是的，還有……還有克里斯托弗·伊舍伍德。”克里斯勇敢地繼續說。雷木斯決定這是勇敢的。這可能是他見過的最勇敢的事情。

“Right, yeah…” He cleared his throat, wishing he knew the right way to respond. “You might like Truman Capote, too.”
“對，是的……”他清了清喉嚨，希望自己知道如何正確回應。“你也許會喜歡特魯曼·卡波特。”

Christopher looked at him, half eager, half afraid.
克里斯托弗看著他，半期待半害怕。

“They’re er… they’re your sort of writers too, then?” Christopher was gnawing his lip very hard now, Remus was worried he would bite through the skin.
“他們呃……他們也是你喜歡的作家嗎？”克里斯托弗現在非常用力地咬著嘴唇，雷木斯擔心他會咬破皮膚。

“Um… yeah.”
“嗯……是的。”

He didn’t know how he felt about it really. He’d had an inkling – more than an inkling – about Christopher for quite some time. But he hadn’t expected this in a million years. Christopher looked incredibly relieved, and leaned in,
他真的不知道自己對此有什麼感覺。他對克里斯托弗早有些預感——不只是預感。但他萬萬沒想到會是這樣。克里斯托弗看起來非常放鬆，向他靠近，

“How long have you known?” He whispered.
“你知道了多久？”他低聲問道。

Remus leaned back, panicking over who might be listening. He glanced around quickly, then rubbed the back of his head.
雷木斯向後靠去，驚慌地擔心會有人在偷聽。他迅速地掃視了一下四周，然後揉了揉頭後。

“Christ.” He breathed, “I really need a cigarette. Want to go for a walk?”
“天哪。”他嘆了口氣，“我真的需要一根香煙。想去散步嗎？”

This was perhaps the worst possible time to talk about this. But that wasn’t Christopher’s fault. Christopher didn’t know about the werewolf situation, or Greyback, or Sirius’s nonsensical attitude to sexuality, or even that the marauders were planning to go to war in just a year’s time. Christopher only knew one thing, and Remus knew that he needed a friend.
這也許是談論這個話題的最糟糕時機。但這不是克里斯托弗的錯。克里斯托弗不知道狼人情況，或格雷巴克，或小天狼星對性取向的荒謬態度，甚至不知道調皮鬼們計劃在一年後開戰。克里斯托弗只知道一件事，雷木斯知道他需要一位朋友。

They went to the Astronomy Tower, knowing it was likely to be empty – all of the couples were in Hogsmeade today. They sat outside, backs against the parapet, and Remus smoked and Christopher twisted his hands in his lap.
他們去了天文塔，知道那裡可能會空蕩蕩的——所有的情侶今天都在霍格斯密。他們坐在外面，背靠著欄杆，雷木斯抽煙，而克里斯托弗在腿上扭動著手。

“How long have you known?” He asked again.
“你知道了多久？”他再次問道。

“Since I was fifteen.” Remus replied. “Summer before last. You?”
“從我十五歲時開始。”雷木斯回答。“前年的夏天。你呢？”

“Um… I think I sort of always had an idea. But. Yeah, maybe only for a few months.”
“嗯……我想我一直都有這樣的想法。但。是的，也許只有幾個月。”

“It’s going to be ok, you know.” Remus said, hoping he sounded believable. It wasn’t exactly a lie - but he didn’t know for sure.
“你知道的，一切會好的。”雷木斯說，希望自己聽起來可信。這不完全是一個謊言——但他不確定。

“Do the other marauders know? About you?”
“其他的調皮鬼知道嗎？關於你？”

Remus flinched, remembering the heat of Sirius’s skin against him from earlier that morning. How he had held his hand as he cried. How he had left breakfast early to meet Emmeline. He shook his head,
雷木斯畏縮了一下，記起了早晨小天狼星肌膚的溫熱。他如何在他哭泣時握住他的手。他如何提前離開早餐去見艾梅琳。他搖了搖頭，

“Nah. Not yet.”
“不，還沒有。”

“None of my friends know. You’re the only person I’ve told.”
“我所有的朋友都不知道。你是我唯一告訴過的人。”

Remus didn’t know what to say about that. Not everybody had a Grant, he supposed. He half laughed, half sighed.
雷木斯不知道該怎麼說。不每個人都有格蘭特，他猜想。他一半笑著，一半嘆了口氣。

“Sorry, Chris. Wish I had some advice or something, but I’m just muddling through.”
“對不起，克里斯。希望我能給點建議，但我也只是勉強過日子。”

“That’s ok. It’s just good to know there’s someone else… is it like this with muggles?”
“沒關係。知道還有別人也很好……這樣對麻瓜也是這樣嗎？”

“Hm? Oh, well… I mean there are queer muggles, yeah. Obviously, Oscar Wilde and that. They used to be able to send you to prison, but it’s ok now. Well. Not ok. It’s not… I mean, it’s still better not to be queer, I suppose. What about with wizards?”
“嗯？哦，嗯……我的意思是有奇怪的麻瓜，對，奧斯卡·王爾德之類的。他們以前能把你送進監獄，但現在已經沒事了。嗯。不是完全的好。我的意思是……我想，還是最好不要是奇怪的。我想，巫師呢？”

“Same,” Christopher replied, glumly, “Better not to be.”
“一樣。”克里斯托弗沮喪地回答，“最好不要是。”

They were quiet for a bit. Remus started another cigarette. It was becoming a dreadful habit; he struggled to climb the stairs any more without wheezing.
他們沉默了一會兒。雷木斯點燃了另一根香煙。這已經變成了一個可怕的習慣；他爬樓梯時再也無法不喘氣了。

“Remus?” Christopher said.
“雷木斯？”克里斯托弗說。

“Yeah?”
“嗯？”

“I’m glad… er, I’m glad that if there was anyone else who… knew… then I’m glad it’s you.”
“我很高興……呃，我很高興如果還有其他人……知道……那我很高興是你。”

God. Remus thought, why’d you have to be so bloody sweet?
天哪。雷木斯想，為什麼你要如此甜美？

All in all, it had been a very busy Saturday. And it wasn’t over yet, Remus told himself as he lay in the dark, still as possible, waiting for his friends’ breathing to level out, to tell him they were all asleep. He was keeping still and quiet to try and trick Sirius - he couldn’t afford an interruption tonight. He had places to be.
總的來說，這是一個非常忙碌的星期六。雷木斯告訴自己，當他在黑暗中躺著，儘量保持靜止，等待朋友們的呼吸變得平穩，告訴他們已經都睡著了。他保持靜止和安靜，試圖欺騙小天狼星——他今晚不能承擔打擾。他有地方要去。

Yes, ok; he had told Sirius he wouldn’t go to The Hog’s Head. Or at least that he wouldn’t go without him. But, Remus justified to himself, this was too important, and he had to go alone. He couldn’t be responsible for putting any more people in danger than he already had. And, actually, he thought, grumpily, as he began to creep out of the room, James’s cloak stuffed under his robes, who was Sirius to demand anything from Remus? Tossing each other off every now and then clearly didn’t mean they had any special claim on each other. Sirius couldn’t have everything his way.
是的，好吧；他曾告訴小天狼星他不會去“豬頭酒吧”。或者至少說他不會在沒有他的情況下去。但雷木斯告訴自己，這太重要了，他必須獨自去。他不能再讓更多的人陷入危險。其實，他心情不好地想到，當他開始悄悄地離開房間，詹姆斯的斗篷塞在他的袍子下時，小天狼星憑什麼要求雷木斯做什麼？偶爾互相擺弄顯然並不意味著他們對彼此有任何特殊的要求。小天狼星不能總是按自己的方式來。

He covered himself with the invisibility cloak in the darkness of the stairway, and then stole quietly through the half empty common room and out of the portrait hole. He had the map and he had his wand, and nothing else.
他在樓梯的黑暗中披上了隱形斗篷，然後悄悄地穿過半滿的公共休息室，走出畫像洞。他有地圖，有魔杖，別無他物。

Sooner than he had expected, Remus found himself already outside the statue of the humpbacked witch, and then he was in the tunnel, walking at a speed he rarely managed. He didn’t need to light his wand, as he usually did when the others were with him. He just ploughed on through the cold air, the smell of chocolate was getting stronger by the minute and it had never been less appetising.
比他預期的更快，雷木斯發現自己已經在駝背女巫的雕像外，然後他進入了隧道，以他罕見的速度行走。他不需要像平時和其他人一起時那樣點燃魔杖。他只是迎著寒冷的空氣前進，巧克力的氣味變得越來越濃，從未像現在這樣讓人不感興趣。

In Honeyduke’s, he was able to get through to the front of the shop with little trouble, though he had a hairpin he’d pinched off Mary just in case. And all of a sudden, he was there; standing alone in Hogsmeade. He kept going, it was the only option. He could smell her already, she was still there, or had been recently. Remus’s heart began to pound. He was more frightened than he ever had been in his life – more frightened than he had been last year, waking up to find out what Sirius had done.
在霍尼杜克糖果店，他能夠毫不費力地走到店前，儘管他有一根從瑪麗那裡偷來的髮夾以防萬一。突然間，他來到了那裡；獨自在霍格斯密站著。他繼續前進，這是唯一的選擇。他已經能聞到她的氣味了，她仍然在那裡，或者最近在那裡。雷木斯的心開始狂跳。他比自己一生中任何時候都更害怕——比去年更害怕，當時他醒來發現小天狼星做了什麼。

Outside The Hog’s Head he finally stopped for breath. The scent was very strong now. Light glowed through the dirty pub windows, and Remus could see that it was not busy inside, though there were customers. He pulled back the cloak, breathing in the chill January air.
在“豬頭酒吧”外，他終於停下來喘息。氣味現在非常強烈。燈光透過髒兮兮的酒吧窗戶，雷木斯可以看到裡面不擁擠，雖然有顧客。他收回了斗篷，呼吸著寒冷的1月空氣。

There was movement behind him; a noise like a gasp of delight.
他身後有動靜；像是欣喜的驚呼聲。

“There you are! Who’s a pretty boy, then?”
“你來了！誰是乖寶貝呢？”

Chapter 106~110Chapter Summary

106. Sixth Year: The Long Night (2017-10-27)
107. Sixth Year: Negotiations (2017-10-31)
108. Sixth Year: Mary, Mary (2017-11-01)
109. Sixth Year: Heniokhos (2017-11-02)
110. Sixth Year: Seventeen (2017-11-03)

Chapter 106: Sixth Year: The Long Night 

 

She was not what he had expected. Well, he had not known what to expect - but it was certainly not this. She was small bodied, but had the bearing of someone much taller. Her sharp angular features were made more severe by her shaved head and huge fog grey eyes which focussed on him with a predator’s glint. She had a wide mouth, and her lip had been split at some point, and healed badly. She had scars too; as many as he did, but almost invisible under a complex lacework of small circular tattoos, spiralling across her weatherbeaten skin in untraceable sequences.
她不是他預期中的樣子。嗯，他不知道應該期待什麼——但肯定不是這樣。她身材瘦小，但舉止卻像是比她高得多。她的鋭利的棱角特徵因為剃光的頭和巨大的霧灰色眼睛而顯得更加嚴厲，那雙眼睛以掠食者的光芒盯著他。她有一張寬大的嘴，嘴唇曾經裂開過，愈合得很糟糕。她還有傷疤；跟他一樣多，但幾乎被複雜的圓形紋身遮掩，紋身在她被風霜侵蝕的皮膚上以無法追踪的序列螺旋分布。

“Remus Lupin,” she said, in a low, gravelly voice. She had a horrible, menacing smile. She showed all of her teeth - which were in bad condition, discoloured and uneven. “I’ve been waiting for you, my dear.”
“雷木斯·盧平，”她用低沉、沙啞的聲音說。她有一個可怕、威脅的微笑。她露出了所有的牙齒——那些牙齒狀況很差，變色且不均勻。“我一直在等你，我的親愛的。”

He pulled out his wand at once, adopting a duelling stance.
他立刻拔出魔杖，採取了決鬥的姿勢。

“Drop that!” She snarled, raising a hand - her nails were long, yellow and clawed, filthy with dirt.
“放下它！”她咆哮道，抬起一隻手——她的指甲又長又黃，像爪子一樣，髒兮兮的。

His wand clattered to the ground, and he gasped. Remus was frozen to the spot. She stood only meters away, and his wand was within reach, but he couldn’t move a muscle. She laughed, her breath stark and white in the winter air, “I saw you here on Christmas Eve,” she said. She pointed to the dark alley, “I saw you there, with the human. I followed you both.”
他的魔杖掉落在地，他喘了口氣。雷木斯僵硬地站在原地。她只距離他幾米遠，而他的魔杖就在觸手可及之處，但他動不了一根手指。她笑了，冬天的空氣中她的呼吸清晰而白皙，“我在聖誕夜看到了你，”她說。她指向那條黑暗的小巷，“我看到你和那個人類在那裡。我跟蹤了你們倆。”

“What do you want?” He asked, steadily, staring her down. She was repulsive, unclean - her cloak was heavy matted animal fur, crawling with lice and other vermin. She stank of the forest, and rot, and blood. Despite this, something drew him in - something familiar, safe and welcoming. Pack, the wolf told him, a low growl from somewhere inside. Pack.
“你想要什麼？”他穩定地問道，盯著她看。她令人厭惡，不潔——她的斗篷是厚重的蓋滿絨毛的動物皮，裡面爬滿了蝨子和其他害蟲。她散發著森林、腐爛和血腥的氣味。儘管如此，有些東西吸引了他——一些熟悉的、安全的、令人歡迎的東西。狼告訴他，包裹，內心深處傳來低沉的咆哮。包裹。

“We want you, brother.” She said, stepping forward.
“我們要你，兄弟。”她說，向前走了一步。

She lowered her hand, and he felt a sort of un-clicking in his muscles, and stepped back, automatically.
她放下了手，他感覺到肌肉中有一種解除僵硬的感覺，自動地後退了一步。

“We?” He asked, finding courage now that he could move again. He snatched up his wand and she allowed it.
“我們？”他問道，現在他能再次移動時找到了勇氣。他抓起了魔杖，她允許了。

“We. Us.” She said, stepping forward again. She walked with one foot in front of the other, like an animal. Her feet were bare on the cobbles, black with filth.
“我們。我們。”她說，再次向前走。她的步伐像動物一樣，一腳在前，一腳在後。她的腳裸露在鵝卵石上，黑乎乎的，沾滿了污垢。

“Who’s ‘us’?” He asked, glancing back, quickly. He was almost at the door. If he backed away far enough, he’d be visible from inside the pub windows.
“‘我們’是誰？”他問道，快速地回頭看。他已經快到門口了。如果他後退得足夠遠，他會從酒吧窗戶裡被看到。

“Your family, Remus Lupin.”
“你的家人，雷木斯·盧平。”

“Oh, right?” He asked, still distracted by his progress towards the pub. He had to get closer to people. “Well,” he tried smiling, “If we’re family, I’d better buy you a drink…”
“哦，是嗎？”他問道，仍然分心地看向酒吧的進展。他必須接近一些人。“嗯，”他試著微笑，“如果我們是家人，我最好請你喝一杯……”

“You reek of human terror, Remus Lupin.” She said, tilting her head to one side.
“你身上散發著人類的恐懼氣味，雷木斯·盧平。”她說，將頭歪向一邊。

“Sorry,” he said, with a shrug. “Do you want a drink, or not?”
“抱歉，”他說，耸耸肩。“你要喝酒嗎？”

“If it pleases you.”
“如果你願意。”

“Great…” he pushed open the door with some relief, and stepped into the grimy pub. He had never really felt ‘safe’ in The Hog’s Head, but he had never been quite so glad to be surrounded by other wizards; dark or not. There were maybe five or six of them, including the old white-bearded barman. A few patrons glanced up from under their hoods as the two werewolves entered - but if they had any clue about the situation, they made no sign of it.
“太好了……”他有些鬆了一口氣，推開了門，走進了這間骯髒的酒吧。他在“豬頭酒吧”從未真正感到‘安全’，但他從未如此高興被其他巫師包圍；無論黑暗與否。那裡大約有五六個人，包括那位白鬍子的大酒保。一些顧客在兩隻狼人進入時從頭巾下瞥了一眼——但如果他們對情況有任何線索，他們沒有表露出來。

She sat at a table, not taking her eyes off Remus for a moment. He didn’t order drinks, just sat opposite her. He placed both hands on the table, feeling that this was the safest option; hoping that she would see he was not planning to attack.
她坐在一張桌子上，片刻未曾把視線從雷木斯身上移開。他沒有點酒，只是坐在她對面。他雙手放在桌子上，覺得這是最安全的選擇；希望她能看到他不打算攻擊。

“So. You know my name. What’s yours?” He didn’t know where this cavalier attitude had come from - whether it was a momentary madness or just the outcome of his own stupidity, but it was keeping him safe for now.
“那麼。你知道我的名字。那你呢？”他不知道這種隨意的態度從何而來——無論是瞬間的瘋狂還是自己愚蠢的結果，但它目前讓他安全。

“Livia.”
“莉維亞。”

“Livia…?”
“莉維亞……？”

“We do not need other names. We belong to the pack.”
“我們不需要其他名字。我們屬於這個狼群。”

“Right, ok. So… you were sent by the pack?”
“好吧，那麼……你是狼群派來的？”

“I was sent by my father.”
“我是我父親派來的。”

“Greyback.”
“灰背。”

She did not reply, she just kept staring at him with her strange, violent eyes. She did not belong indoors, he felt. The train of her cloak was caked in mud, and dirt smeared the parts of her skin that were visible. Up close, he could see that her tattoos were not simply circles - they were moon phases. “Is Greyback really your father?” Remus asked, keeping his voice low.
她沒有回答，只是繼續用她那奇怪、暴力的眼睛盯著他。他感覺她不適合待在室內。她的斗篷拖地，沾滿了泥巴，泥土弄髒了她可見的皮膚部位。近看，他可以看到她的紋身不僅僅是圓圈——它們是月亮的相位。“灰背真的是你的父親嗎？”雷木斯低聲問。

“He is our father.” She said.
“他是我們的父親。”她說。

“Order or leave.” The tall, ancient bar man appeared by their side. Remus looked up at him, wishing he knew how to transmit thoughts.
“點餐或離開。”高大的古老酒保出現在他們身邊。雷木斯抬頭看著他，祈禱他知道如何傳達思想。

“Er… butterbeer, please.”
“呃……一杯奶油啤酒，請。”

Livia did not say anything, and the barman did not question her, only snapped his fingers, and the bottle appeared. He shuffled away, back behind his bar. Remus wiped the rim of the bottle cautiously, and took a sip. It was much too sickly, and not cold enough. “Ok,” he said to Livia again, “You’re in Greyback’s pack. That er… must be nice? Do you--”
莉維亞沒有說什麼，酒保也沒有質疑她，只是打了個響指，瓶子就出現了。他溜回到他的酒吧後面。雷木斯小心翼翼地擦拭瓶口，喝了一口。味道太甜了，也不夠冷。“好吧，”他再次對莉維亞說，“你在灰背的狼群裡。那，呃……一定不錯？你--”

“I called for you, Remus Lupin.” Livia interrupted, settling back in her chair. Remus was convinced that he had not yet seen her blink. “I heard you calling for me, you sang so beautifully.”
“我呼喚過你，雷木斯·盧平。”莉維亞打斷了他，靠回椅子上。雷木斯相信他尚未看到她眨眼。“我聽到你呼喚我，你唱得如此美妙。”

“You mean on the moon…”
“你是說在月亮上……”

“I waited as long as I could, but the hunt was too good and I was hungry…” her eyes gleamed brightly, as if the memory was still very fresh, “Why didn’t you come to me? They did not lock you up; I followed your scent for days afterwards.”
“我等了很久，但狩獵太好，我又很餓……”她的眼睛閃閃發光，彷彿記憶仍然很新鮮，“你為什麼不來找我？他們沒有把你關起來；我在之後跟蹤了你的氣味好幾天。”

“I’m not a killer.” He said. “I don’t hunt.”
“我不是殺手。”他說。“我不狩獵。”

She laughed,
她笑了，

“Madness. What have they done to you, my poor brother? Father told me you had suffered at the human’s hands, but I did not know how much.”
“瘋狂。他們對你做了什麼，我可憐的兄弟？父親告訴我你曾遭受人類的折磨，但我不知道有多嚴重。”

“I don’t suffer.” Remus replied, indignantly. “I’ve been lucky. They take care of me.”
“我不受折磨。”雷木斯憤然回答。“我一直很幸運。他們照顧我。”

“Poor boy,” she said sadly, “You do not know. But of course, that is not your fault. ‘How could they see anything but the shadows if they were never allowed to move their heads?’”
“可憐的孩子，”她悲傷地說，“你不知道。但是當然，這不是你的錯。‘如果他們從未被允許轉動頭部，他們怎麼能看到影子以外的東西？’”

“Plato?” Remus sat up, curious, “Greyback lets you study muggle philosophy?”
“柏拉圖？”雷木斯坐直了身子，充滿好奇，“灰背讓你學習麻瓜哲學？”

“My father places no limitations on me. My father wishes me to be free and strong and wise.”
“我父親對我沒有任何限制。我父親希望我自由、強壯和智慧。”

“And a murderer.”
“還有一個殺手。”

“Wolves cannot murder. You know this, Remus Lupin.”
“狼不能謀殺。你知道的，雷木斯·盧平。”

“But we aren’t wolves, are we?” He whispered. “Not all the time.”
“但我們不是狼，對嗎？”他低聲說。“不是一直都是。”

“We are what we are.” She replied. She was enjoying this, he could tell. “You can wear that uniform and wave your silly stick, but you know that you have more in common with me than anyone in that castle.” She licked her lips, “I have come to bring you home, Remus Lupin.”
“我們就是我們。”她回答。她似乎很享受這一刻，他可以看出來。“你可以穿著那套制服，揮舞你的愚蠢魔杖，但你知道你和我比城堡裡的任何人都有更多的共同點。”她舔了舔嘴唇，“我來是為了帶你回家，雷木斯·盧平。”

“Why now?”
“為什麼是現在？”

“The time is right,” She cocked her head, “Father prefers to wait until we are of age - so that we come to him with a true understanding of our place in the world; the place the human filth have forced on us. But time is short for us all, these days.”
“時機正好，”她歪著頭說，“父親更喜歡等到我們成年——以便我們帶著對自己在世界上位置的真正理解來到他面前；那是人類污穢強加給我們的位置。但是如今我們的時間都很短。”

“I’m not going with you.” He said. “I belong here. I’m a wizard.”
“我不會跟你走。”他說。“我屬於這裡。我是巫師。”

She laughed again, a throaty, deep laugh that rattled in her chest and spoke of long cold winters in hard, unforgiving environments.
她再次笑了，那笑聲沉厚而深沉，在她的胸腔中迴響，透露出在寒冷而嚴酷的環境中度過漫長冬季的痕跡。

“A wizard,” she spat, ruefully. “To think that a magnificent beast like you would aspire to be such a creature! You don’t know half of the power you hold, Remus Lupin. Nor does Dumbledore.”
“巫師，”她不屑地吐出這個詞，“想到像你這樣的壯麗獸類會渴望成為這樣的生物！你不知道你擁有的一半力量，雷木斯·盧平。鄧布利多也不知道。”

“I’m still not going anywhere.”
“我還是不會去任何地方。”

“Father suspected you would be difficult. He is very eager to meet you.”
“父親懷疑你會很難對付。他非常急於見到你。”

That sent a chill down Remus’s spine. She smiled again, reading him like a book. Remus swallowed, dryly, ignoring the butterbeer now,
這讓雷木斯感到一陣寒意。她再次微笑，像讀書一樣讀懂了他。雷木斯乾澀地吞了口水，現在不再關心奶油啤酒，

“I’d like to meet him.” He replied, stiffly.
“我想見見他。”他僵硬地回答。

“In time,” she nodded, “Once you have come to understand your place.”
“等時候，”她點了點頭，“一旦你明白自己的位置。”

“What’s he like?” Remus barely breathed the question. Livia’s eyes shone, and he had the impression that she could not see him; she was imagining something wonderful.
“他是什麼樣的人？”雷木斯幾乎沒有呼吸地問。莉維亞的眼睛閃閃發光，他覺得她看不到他；她在幻想著一些美好的事物。

“He is magnificent.”
“他是壯麗的。”

“You think that…?!” Remus could hardly keep the emotion from his voice, “You call him your father, after what he did to you?”
“你覺得……？！”雷木斯幾乎無法掩飾語氣中的情感，“在他對你做了那些事之後，你稱呼他為你的父親？”

“He elevated me.” She hissed, her eyes focussing again, eyebrows knitting into a frown, “He gave me the greatest gift. And he gave it to you, Remus Lupin. Your father is calling you home.”
“他提升了我。”她嘶嘯著說，眼睛再次聚焦，眉毛皺起來，“他給了我最偉大的禮物。他也給了你，雷木斯·盧平。你的父親在召喚你回家。”

“And that’s what you’re here for, is it?” He looked her up and down. She gave a small shrug,
“所以這就是你來這裡的原因，對嗎？”他上下打量她。她輕輕地聳了聳肩，

“My father had hoped that I might be the right one to persuade you. I learnt on Christmas Eve that he was mistaken – we did not know that your desires lay elsewhere.” She licked her lips again, her eyes raking over him, “This will not be a problem, I should let you know. The pack does not discriminate. You will find someone to your taste.”
“我父親希望我能夠說服你。我在聖誕夜了解到他錯了——我們不知道你的願望在別處。”她再次舔了舔嘴唇，眼睛掃過他，“我應該讓你知道，這不會成為問題。狼群不會歧視。你會找到適合你的人的。”

“I’m not going anywhere.” He repeated. “You can tell him that. And I want you gone before the next moon.”
“我還是不會去任何地方。”他重複說。“你可以告訴他這個。我要你在下一次月亮之前消失。”

“Don’t flatter yourself, my dear brother,” she arched an eyebrow, “I am here at my father’s request. I came to speak with you, and nothing more.”
“不要自以為是，我親愛的兄弟，”她挑起一眉，“我來是應父親的要求。我來是為了和你談話，僅此而已。”

“You murdered a woman!”
“你殺了一個女人！”

“Wolves cannot murder, Remus Lupin. I waited for you. When you did not come, I followed my nature. It is not easy, I know. Learning that the world is not as it seems is very painful. But you will learn. And you will come to us.”
“狼不能謀殺，雷木斯·盧平。我等了你。當你沒有來時，我遵循了我的本性。我知道這不容易。了解世界並非如它看起來那樣是非常痛苦的。但你會學會的。你會來到我們身邊。”

She tapped out a rhythm on the beer soaked table with her disgusting fingernails, and once again Remus found himself frozen in place. She smiled, and ran a blackened talon across his arm, slowly. It was hideous, vile, revolting, raising goosebumps in his flesh, but he couldn’t get away.
她用她那令人作嘔的指甲在被啤酒浸透的桌子上打起節奏，雷木斯再次發現自己動不了。她微笑著，慢慢地用一根漆黑的爪子在他的手臂上劃過。這是可怕的、惡心的、令人厭惡的，讓他的皮膚起了雞皮疙瘩，但他無法逃脫。

“They will trap you, like this,” she whispered, “They will cage you, shackle you and tie you down until you are half mad with hunger. You will be beaten and betrayed. You will be alone and you will live in fear. This is a promise, Remus Lupin.”
“他們會像這樣困住你，”她低聲說，“他們會把你囚禁、束縛、綁住，直到你因飢餓而幾乎瘋狂。你會被打擊和背叛。你會孤獨，並且活在恐懼中。這是一個承諾，雷木斯·盧平。”

His heart was hammering against his ribcage, he was giddy with terror, but still he could not move, or speak, or react. She dug her nails into his arm, and he could not cry out, but tears of pain welled in his eyes as beads of dark blood bubbled up through his broken skin. “And you will come to us, crawling, defeated, and your father will welcome you with open arms and the love of the pack. You will never be lonely again.”
他的心臟在胸腔內猛烈跳動，他因恐懼而感到暈眩，但仍然無法動彈、說話或反應。她的指甲深深刺入他的手臂，他無法尖叫，但痛苦的淚水在他的眼中彌漫，暗紅的血珠透過破碎的皮膚冒出來。“你會來到我們這裡，爬行著，敗北著，你的父親會張開雙臂歡迎你，並且擁有狼群的愛。你將不再孤單。”

 

“Fine.” Remus nodded, so, so grateful to James Potter.

 

ChatGPT

CRACK

Someone apparated into the pub, catching Livia’s attention. Remus couldn’t turn his head to see, but she did, still gripping Remus’s arm with all her strength, her face turned sour and angry.
有人出現在酒吧裡，吸引了莉維亞的注意。雷木斯無法轉頭去看，但她卻看到了，仍然用所有的力量緊緊抓住雷木斯的手臂，她的臉色變得酸澀而憤怒。

“Argentum creo!” A gruff voice shouted, and Livia shrieked, letting go of Remus and covering her face as silver chains burst forth from the incantation, coiling themselves around her neck and arms. Groaning in pain, she hissed at Remus,
“白銀來吧！”一個粗糙的聲音喊道，莉維亞尖叫起來，放開雷木斯，捂住自己的臉，當咒語中的銀色鏈條湧出來，纏繞在她的脖子和手臂上。她痛苦地呻吟，對雷木斯嘶嘯道，

“I will see you soon, brother!” Before apparating herself, with a blistering CRACK.
“我很快會見到你，兄弟！”隨後她自己也消失在一個刺耳的CRACK聲中。

The silver chains fell to the saw dust covered floor like a glistening snake, and Remus slumped forward, finally free. He turned away from his rescuer and threw up, his arm throbbing and the silver making his head swim.
銀色鏈條像閃閃發光的蛇一樣掉落在鋸屑覆蓋的地板上，雷木斯向前傾斜，終於自由了。他轉過身，對著他的救援者嘔吐，手臂劇烈跳動，銀色使他的頭暈目眩。

“Finite.” The same gruff voice said, making the chains (and the vomit) disappear in an instant, “Sorry about that, Remus.”
“止住。”同樣的粗糙聲音說道，讓鏈條（和嘔吐物）瞬間消失，“抱歉了，雷木斯。”

Leo Ferox sat down in the seat opposite, where Livia had been only seconds before. Remus blinked at him through watering eyes, and shook his head, wiping his mouth quickly,
里奧·費洛克斯坐在對面的位置，正是莉維亞幾秒鐘前坐的地方。雷木斯透過淚眼瞪著他，搖了搖頭，迅速擦拭嘴巴，

“S’ok…” he croaked, feeling weak and shaken to the core. “Thanks.”
“沒事……”他喃喃道，感到虛弱和震驚。“謝謝。”

“Are you all right?” Ferox asked, his blue eyes filled with parental concern.
“你還好嗎？”費洛克斯問道，他的藍眼睛充滿了父母般的關切。

“I think so, it’s just the silver…” Remus nodded, clutching his arm, and taking a quick swig of butterbeer to clear the bitter taste in his mouth. “Yeah.” He nodded again.
“我想還好，只是銀子……”雷木斯點了點頭，抓住自己的手臂，迅速喝了一口奶油啤酒以清除口中的苦味。“對。”他再次點頭。

“Good.” Ferox’s face turned stern. He reached across the table and slapped Remus around the back of the head. Remus yelped and ducked, more out of shock than pain. He stared at Ferox, wounded. His old teacher glared back at him, “Then you can tell me what the bloody hell you think you’re doing!”
“很好。”費洛克斯的臉色變得嚴厲。他伸手跨過桌子，給了雷木斯一巴掌。雷木斯尖叫著低頭，更多的是震驚而非痛苦。他盯著費洛克斯，受傷的表情。他的老教師瞪回去，“那麼你可以告訴我你到底在做什麼！”

“I was… she was…”
“我當時……她當時……”

“I know exactly what she was. We’ve been tracking her for weeks.”
“我正確知道她是什麼。我們已經追蹤她好幾個星期了。”

“We?”
“我們？”

“Me and Moody,” Ferox said, impatiently, as if this was not the point, “Didn’t I tell you how dangerous Greyback was? Was I not clear!?”
“我和穆迪，”費洛克斯不耐煩地說，好像這不是重點，“我不是告訴過你格雷巴克有多危險嗎？我是不是不夠清楚！？”

“You were clear.” Remus scowled. “But I can make my own choices.”
“你很清楚。”雷木斯皺起眉頭。“但我可以做出自己的選擇。”

“Obviously.” Ferox growled.
“顯然。”費洛克斯咆哮道。

The tall, white bearded barman appeared at Ferox’s shoulder, with a tumbler of firewhisky. Ferox accepted it, and downed it in one. “Thanks, Aberforth,” he nodded to the barman, who nodded and shuffled away again. Ferox shook his head, still angry, “You’re lucky he saw you. You’re lucky he knew enough to contact Moody before he contacted anyone else!”
高大的白鬍子酒保出現在費洛克斯的肩膀上，拿著一杯火焰威士忌。費洛克斯接過酒杯，一口喝下。“謝謝，阿伯福斯，”他向酒保點了點頭，酒保也點了點頭，隨後離開了。費洛克斯搖了搖頭，仍然生氣，“你很幸運他看到了你。你幸運的是，他知道要先聯繫穆迪，才聯繫其他人！”

“Why, who is he?” Remus turned to look.
“為什麼，他是誰？”雷木斯轉過身看了看。

“It doesn't matter.” Ferox snapped, drawing Remus’s attention back. “But you’re damned lucky.”
“這不重要。”費洛克斯厲聲說道，把雷木斯的注意力拉回來。“但你真的是非常幸運。”

“Ok, ok!” Remus looked at his hands. His arm had stopped bleeding, but it was stinging very unpleasantly. Who knew what kind of muck she’d had under her nails. “I’m sorry.”
“好的，好的！”雷木斯看了看自己的手。他的手臂已經停止流血，但仍然非常刺痛。誰知道她指甲下藏了什麼爛泥。“對不起。”

“It’s not good enough, Remus!” Ferox sighed, deeply. “You were stupid, and careless, and you could have been killed! Do you know what they want? Do you know why she was waiting for you?!”
“這不夠好，雷木斯！”費洛克斯深深地嘆了口氣。“你很愚蠢，粗心大意，你本來可能會被殺！你知道他們想要什麼嗎？你知道她為什麼在等你嗎？！”

“Yes.” He replied, churlishly, folding his arms, careful not to bump the one that hurt, “She told me.”
“知道。”他不客氣地回答，交叉著手臂，小心不碰到疼痛的地方，“她告訴我了。”

Ferox huffed, furiously,
費洛克斯氣喘吁吁，憤怒地說，

“They want to make you one of them!”
“他們想讓你成為他們的一份子！”

“I’m already one of them!” Remus shouted, standing up so fast his stool flew backwards, clattering on the dirty pub floor and attracting everyone’s attention. Remus didn’t care. He started for the door. Ferox followed him outside. Remus walked faster, heading for Honeyduke’s, “You’re not my dad. You’re not even my teacher anymore, so piss off and leave me alone!”
“我已經是他們中的一員了！”雷木斯大喊，迅速站起來，椅子向後飛去，在骯髒的酒吧地板上發出響聲，吸引了所有人的注意。雷木斯不在乎。他向門口走去。費洛克斯跟在他身後。雷木斯走得更快，朝霍尼杜克走去，“你不是我的父親。你甚至不再是我的老師了，所以滾開，讓我一個人待著！”

His terror had turned to rage so quickly, his head still throbbing from the silver, and from being slapped (just like bloody Matron, bloody adults are all the bloody same), his arm hurting and itching more than ever. And Remus was not quick on his feet at the best of times. Ferox caught up easily. He grabbed his shoulder,
他的恐懼轉瞬間變成了憤怒，他的頭仍然因銀子的影響而疼痛，還有被打了一巴掌（就像該死的護理員，該死的成年人都是一樣的），他的手臂比以往更加痛苦和癢。雷木斯本來腳步就不快。費洛克斯很容易追上來。他抓住了雷木斯的肩膀，

“Oi! Look, maybe I was a bit harsh, but… Jesus christ, Lupin! You gave us all such a fright.”
“喂！看看，或許我有點過於苛刻，但……天啊，雷木斯！你給我們所有人都帶來了巨大的驚嚇。”

Remus stopped at that,
雷木斯聽到這句話停下了，

“All?”
“所有人？”

Ferox sighed again.
費洛克斯再次嘆了口氣。

“Come on. I’d better take you back to the castle. There are some people waiting for you.”
“走吧。我還是把你帶回城堡吧。有人在等你。”

Before they began to walk back, Ferox cast a patronus, a huge, long legged bird, to send a message up to Hogwarts that they were both safe.
在他們開始回去之前，費洛克斯施了一個護法咒，一隻巨大的長腿鳥，向霍格華茲發送了一個他們都安全的消息。

“Dumbledore knows, then.” Remus sighed.
“那麼，鄧布利多知道了。”雷木斯嘆了口氣。

“‘Fraid so.”
“怕是如此。”

“And McGonagall, I s’pose.”
“還有麥格教授，我想。”

“You’re looking at a lot of detention, Remus, I won’t lie to you.”
“雷木斯，你要面對很多的拘留，我不會對你撒謊。”

Remus snorted, and looked up at Ferox properly for the first time. Actually - he didn’t have to look up. In the two years since they had last met, Remus had caught up in height. They were eye to eye. Ferox was still golden haired, ruggedly handsome and weather beaten, but he was no longer the hero Remus had worshipped at thirteen. He was just a man – a soldier in a war, like all of them.
雷木斯哼了一聲，第一次正眼看著費洛克斯。實際上——他不必仰視。在他們上次見面後的兩年中，雷木斯的身高已經追上來了。他們平視而坐。費洛克斯仍然是金色的頭髮，粗獷英俊，饱经风霜，但他不再是雷木斯在十三歲時崇拜的英雄。他只是一個人——一場戰爭中的士兵，就像他們所有人一樣。

“I’m really sorry.” Remus said, “I knew it was stupid, I can’t even explain myself.”
“我真的很抱歉。”雷木斯說，“我知道這很愚蠢，我甚至無法解釋自己。”

“Ah, you don’t have to, lad,” Ferox clapped a hand to his shoulder, “It’s only natural, knowing what you know about him.”
“啊，你不必這麼做，孩子，”費洛克斯拍了拍他的肩膀，“知道你對他了解的情況下，這是很自然的。”

“I’ve never met another… werewolf… before.” He said. “Are they all like that?”
“我從未見過其他……狼人……”他說。“他們都那樣嗎？”

Ferox glanced at him sideways,
費洛克斯側眼看了看他，

“What do you think?”
“你怎麼認為？”

Remus thought about this while they walked, and eventually shook his head.
雷木斯在他們走路的時候思考了這個問題，最後搖了搖頭。

“No, I suppose they can’t be.” He sighed, “There are good and bad people. Good and bad wizards. Why should monsters be any different?”
“不，我想他們不能都這樣。”他嘆了口氣，“有好人也有壞人。好巫師和壞巫師。為什麼怪物會有什麼不同呢？”

“Remus me old pal, if you could get everyone else to understand that then I don’t think there would be a war on.”
“雷木斯，我的老朋友，如果你能讓其他人明白這一點，那我想就不會有戰爭了。”

He was brought straight to Dumbledore’s office. Remus had never been inside it before, and it was almost as anxiety inducing as meeting Livia. It was a high ceilinged airy room with portraits covering the walls and cabinets full of strange curiosities. Terrifyingly, Dumbledore was alone, sitting at his desk, writing on a long piece of parchment. Remus stood in silence for at least five minutes.
他被直接帶到鄧布利多的辦公室。雷木斯以前從未進入過這裡，這幾乎讓他像見到莉維亞一樣感到焦慮。這是一個高挑的明亮房間，牆壁上掛滿了肖像，櫥櫃裡擺滿了奇怪的好奇物品。令人恐懼的是，鄧布利多獨自坐在辦公桌前，正在寫一張長長的羊皮紙。雷木斯沉默地站了至少五分鐘。

“Mr Lupin.” The headmaster said, finally. “We seem always to meet under the most unpleasant conditions.”
“雷木斯先生。”校長終於說道，“我們似乎總是在最不愉快的情況下見面。”

“Yeah. Fair enough.” Remus nodded. He’d had too much of a night to care much about what Dumbledore had to say. I said I’d fight for your bloody cause, old man, what more do you want?
“是的。公平。”雷木斯點了點頭。他已經經歷了太多的一夜，對鄧布利多要說什麼不太在意。我說過我會為你的該死的事業而戰，老頭子，你還想要什麼？

Dumbledore watched his nonchalance carefully.
鄧布利多仔細觀察著他的漠不關心。

“You have done a very dangerous thing, tonight.”
“今晚你做了一件非常危險的事情。”

“Yeah,” he raised his bandaged arm.
“是的，”他舉起了包紮過的手臂。

“You know that is not what I am referring to.”
“你知道我不是在說這個。”

“I know.” Remus replied, hanging his head, trying to look remorseful. If he hadn’t had the chance to cool off with Ferox, then he might have a lot more to say. I know, professor, you aren’t referring to any bodily harm I might have come to. That is clearly the least of your concerns, considering I had been tearing myself apart for eight years before anyone decided to intervene.
“我知道。”雷木斯回答，低下頭，試圖表現出悔恨。如果他沒有機會在費洛克斯那裡冷靜下來，他可能會有更多要說的。我知道，教授，你不是在說我可能遭遇的身體傷害。顯然，這是你最不擔心的，考慮到在任何人決定介入之前，我已經折磨了自己八年。

Dumbledore, of course, didn’t know about the marauder’s secret. He may well have known about Madam Pomfrey’s efforts to help Remus, but if he did, he showed no interest.
鄧布利多當然不知道掠奪者的秘密。他可能知道波莫弗雷夫人的努力幫助雷木斯，但如果他知道，他卻表現出沒有興趣。

So Remus shut up and took his punishment, hoping that eventually Dumbledore would release him and he could just go back to bed. There was a lecture on responsibility and maturity. A stern reminder that the war is bigger than him, and that his own personal motives did not matter. “We all have to make sacrifices…” (yeah, Remus scoffed, inwardly, some more than others, presumably.)
所以雷木斯閉嘴接受了懲罰，希望最終鄧布利多會釋放他，他可以回去睡覺了。校長講了關於責任和成熟的講座。嚴厲地提醒他，戰爭比他本人更大，他自己的個人動機不重要。“我們都必須做出犧牲……”（是的，雷木斯在心裡嗤之以鼻，大概有些人比其他人更多。）

“Do you understand, Remus?”
“你明白了嗎，雷木斯？”

“Yes, headmaster.”
“是的，校長。”

After that, he had to give Dumbledore a detailed account of everything he and Livia had discussed. It wasn’t much – Remus couldn’t help feeling a little bit disappointed by how little he had learnt himself. Dumbledore seemed pleased, however – as much as Dumbledore ever seemed to be one thing or another. Several of the clocks in one of the glass cabinets began to chime, and Remus realised that it was three o’clock in the morning. He stifled a yawn.
之後，他不得不向鄧布利多詳細描述他和莉維亞討論的所有內容。沒什麼——雷木斯不禁感到有些失望，因為他自己學到的東西太少了。然而，鄧布利多似乎很高興——至於鄧布利多是否真的對某一件事情感到高興。玻璃櫃中的幾個時鐘開始敲響，雷木斯意識到已經是凌晨三點了。他抑制住了哈欠。

“Yes,” Dumbledore nodded, as if Remus had just made a very interesting point, “Perhaps that is enough for tonight. You may go to bed, Mr Lupin.”
“是的，”鄧布利多點了點頭，就像雷木斯剛剛提出了一個非常有趣的觀點，“也許今晚到此為止。雷木斯先生，你可以去睡覺了。”

Remus nodded dozily and stood up, rubbing his hip which was stiff from sitting on hard wooden seats all evening.
雷木斯昏昏欲睡地點了點頭，站起來，揉了揉因整晚坐在硬木椅子上而僵硬的臀部。

“Professor?” He asked, just before leaving. Dumbledore had returned to his letter writing, and made no sign he had heard the boy, so Remus just continued anyway, “Livia said that I didn’t know half the power I had. And she could do wandless magic, and wordless magic, and—“
“教授？”他在離開前問道。鄧布利多已經回到寫信中，沒有表示他聽到了男孩的話，所以雷木斯繼續說，“莉維亞說我不知道自己擁有一半的力量。她能夠做沒有魔杖的魔法，還有無聲的魔法，還有——”

“Her talents were nothing out of the ordinary, Mr Lupin,” Dumbledore replied, not looking up, “She has clearly studied the dark arts, and may be particularly gifted. Do not dwell on it.”
“她的才能並不尋常，雷木斯先生，”鄧布利多回答，沒有抬頭，“她顯然研究過黑魔法，可能特別有天賦。不要過於糾結於此。”

“Ok then.” Remus replied, even more disappointed. “Is er… is Professor Ferox still here?”
“好吧。”雷木斯回答，更加失望。“那……費洛克斯教授還在這裡嗎？”

“Mr Ferox is staying in Hogsmeade for a few more days. Good night, Remus.”
“費洛克斯先生在霍格斯米德再待幾天。晚安，雷木斯。”

“Um… goodnight, headmaster.”
“嗯……晚安，校長。”

Professor McGonagall was waiting for him outside the office. She looked furious, but she didn’t say anything.
麥格教授在辦公室外等他。她看起來很生氣，但沒有說什麼。

“I’m sure you’ve had enough of a telling off for one night.” She said, stiffly.
“我敢肯定你已經受夠了一晚的斥責。”她生硬地說。

“Oh,” Remus sighed, “I can take a bit more, if it’ll make you feel better.”
“哦，”雷木斯嘆了口氣，“如果這會讓你感覺好一些，我還能再承受一點。”

She raised an eyebrow at him, tutted, but kept walking. When they arrived at the portrait hole, she stopped and said,
她對他挑了挑眉，發出輕蔑的聲音，但仍然繼續走。在他們到達畫像洞口時，她停下來說，

“Two month’s detention, every night except full moons. And tell those boys to get to bed at once.”
“兩個月的拘留，除了滿月之夜之外的每晚都要。還有，讓那些男孩們立刻上床睡覺。”

He crawled through to the common room and found James, Sirius and Peter there, waiting in their pyjamas. James was pacing by the fireplace, Peter was trying not to fall sleep, leaning on his elbow, and Sirius, who had been sitting bolt upright in an armchair, leapt to his feet the moment he saw Remus.
他爬過畫像洞口進入公共休息室，發現詹姆斯、獵狐和彼得在那裡，穿著睡衣等他。詹姆斯在壁爐旁徘徊，彼得靠在手肘上，努力不讓自己入睡，而獵狐一看到雷木斯，就立刻從扶手椅上跳了起來。

“What do you think you’re playing at?!” He shouted, striding across the room, “Running off on your own!”
“你以為自己在玩什麼？！”他大喊著，跨步走向房間，“自己跑掉了！”

“Please don’t, Padfoot, I’m knackered…” Remus sighed, wincing. He was getting a headache. He just wanted to go to sleep – enough talking tonight.
“別這麼做，帕德腳，我累壞了……”雷木斯嘆了口氣，皺著眉頭。他頭疼得厲害。他只想去睡覺——今晚夠多了。

“Do you have any idea what it was like finding out you’d sneaked off?!” Sirius shouted. Remus raised an eyebrow at him.
“你知道發現你偷偷溜走是什麼感覺嗎？！”獵狐大喊。雷木斯對他挑了挑眉。

Sirius blinked, and stepped back, slightly, looking down. “For all of us, I mean.”
獵狐眨了眨眼，稍微退後了一步，低下頭。“我是說，對我們所有人來說。”

“I can imagine.” Remus said, “And I’m sorry, but please can I just go to bed? You can have a go at me in the morning.”
“我可以想像。”雷木斯說，“而且我很抱歉，但請我現在可以去睡覺了嗎？你們可以在早上再批評我。”

“Yeah, back off, Black.” James came over, and placed a hand on Sirius’s shoulder. Sirius shrugged it off, agitated. James sighed, taking his glasses off. “It’s late, we’re all tired. You sure you’re ok, Moony?”
“對，別再這樣了，布萊克。”詹姆斯走過來，拍了拍獵狐的肩膀。獵狐擺脫了詹姆斯，顯得有些焦躁。詹姆斯嘆了口氣，摘下眼鏡。“已經很晚了，我們都累了。你確定沒事嗎，月亮？”

“Fine.” Remus nodded, so, so grateful to James Potter.
“沒事。”雷木斯點了點頭，非常感激詹姆斯·波特。

 

Chapter 107: Sixth Year: Negotiations

 

Sunday 15th January 1977

He slept as late as possible the next morning, to put off further confrontation. He couldn't talk to them, not yet, not until his head was straight. They’d have so many questions – some he couldn’t answer, some he didn’t want to. He showered for longer than usual – something of Livia seemed to cling to him, and he turned the tap right up, trying to scald it off. The claw marks she had left were healing already, but still itched under Remus’s scratchy wool jumper.
他睡到盡可能晚，以推遲進一步的對峙。他不能現在就和他們談，至少在他的頭腦清醒之前不能。他們會有很多問題——一些他無法回答，一些他不想回答。他洗澡洗得比平時久——莉維亞的某些東西似乎黏在他身上，他把水龍頭調到最大，試圖把它燙掉。她留下的爪痕已經在癒合，但仍然在雷木斯的粗毛衣下癢得難忍。

Washed and dressed, Remus went to his trunk and looked for a spare bit of parchment, before scrawling an untidy note:

If you’re still in the village, I’d like to talk to you again.

He folded it in a hurry, shoved it in his pocket and headed for the owlery. The marauders were all in the common room, in much the same state as they had been the night before. Remus looked at them, panicked, then bent his head and kept walking.
洗漱完畢，雷木斯走到他的行李箱前，找了張多餘的羊皮紙，草草寫了一張不整潔的便條：

如果你還在村子裡，我想再和你談談。

他匆忙地把便條折好，塞進口袋，前往貓頭鷹廳。四個麻瓜流氓都在公共休息室，狀態和前一晚差不多。雷木斯看了看他們，驚慌地低下頭，繼續走著。

“Moony, wait…” they followed him, all three, through the portrait hole. No matter, they couldn’t discuss it in the open, he knew this and they knew it.

“I’m going to the owlery.” He said, marching ahead.

“Don’t you want breakfast?” Peter asked.

“After.”

“Moony, can we talk about what happened last night?” James asked, sounding very tired still. Remus supposed he’d been bearing the brunt of Sirius’s frustration. Good; let someone else do that for a bit.

“Not here.”

Unfortunately, they all followed him to the owlery – which happened to be completely empty – except for owls, of course, most of which were sleeping.
“月亮，等一下……”他們三個跟著他穿過畫像洞口。不管怎麼樣，他們知道這件事不能在公開場合討論，他也知道。他說道：“我要去貓頭鷹廳。”

“你不想吃早餐嗎？”彼得問道。

“等會再說。”

“月亮，我們能談談昨晚發生的事嗎？”詹姆斯問道，聽起來仍然很疲倦。雷木斯推測他一定承擔了獵狐的沮喪。好吧，讓別人來擔當一下吧。

“這裡不行。”

不幸的是，他們都跟到了貓頭鷹廳——那裡碰巧完全空無一人——當然，貓頭鷹除外，大部分都在睡覺。

“Who are you writing to?” Sirius asked at once. Remus closed his eyes, sighed, and resumed tying his note to the nearest owl.

“Ferox. My old professor.”

“Why?!”

Remus dropped the string he was using and tutted as he had to bend to pick it up. He continued to explain, calmly.

“He’s in Hogsmeade. I saw him last night, but I want to see him again.”

“What was he doing in--”

Remus tutted again, fumbling with his third attempt to tie the note to the agitated owl’s leg. Sirius was standing much too close, leaning over him, demanding answers, and Remus could barely concentrate.
“你在寫信給誰？”獵狐立刻問道。雷木斯閉上眼睛，嘆了口氣，繼續把便條綁在最近的貓頭鷹身上。

“費洛克斯。我的舊教授。”

“為什麼？！”

雷木斯放下了他正在使用的繩子，嘖了一聲，彎下腰撿起來。他繼續平靜地解釋。

“他在霍格斯米德。我昨晚見過他，但我想再見他一次。”

“他在做什麼——”

雷木斯再次嘖了一聲，試圖第三次把便條綁在焦躁的貓頭鷹腿上。獵狐站得太近，俯身過來，要求答案，雷木斯幾乎無法集中精力。

“He’s working with Moody, and he got summoned there to bring me back--”

“Summoned by who?”

“Fucking hell, give me a minute, will you?!” Remus snapped.

Sirius stood back, looking as if he’d very much like to say something else, but was biting his tongue. James touched his shoulder again. Remus ignored them both and tied the letter to the bird - maybe a bit too tight, because it pecked him angrily before flying off, down towards the village. He could stay there, maybe, it might not take very long. But his stomach growled. He turned to look at his friends.
“他和穆迪一起工作，他被召喚去把我帶回來——”

“被誰召喚？”

“該死的，給我一分鐘，好嗎？！”雷木斯怒聲說道。

獵狐退後一步，看起來很想說些別的話，但咬著舌頭。詹姆斯再次拍了拍他的肩膀。雷木斯忽視了他們兩個，把信綁在鳥身上——也許綁得有點緊，因為鳥在飛走之前氣憤地啄了他一口，朝村莊方向飛去。他可以待在那裡，也許不會花太長時間。但他的胃在咕嚕咕嚕叫。他轉過身看著他的朋友們。

“Ok. Breakfast?”

“Are you going to tell--”

“Yes, Padfoot, fine. Let’s um… get some toast and go for a walk or something, ok?”

So that’s what they did. Remus buttered at least five slices of toast in the Great Hall, wrapped them in napkins and stuffed them into the pockets of his robes. The other three marauders followed him, watching cautiously as if they weren’t quite sure what to make of him yet.
“好的。早餐？”

“你要告訴——”

“是的，帕德腳，好吧。讓我們……去拿點吐司，去散步或做點別的事，好嗎？”

於是他們這麼做了。雷木斯在大禮堂裡抹了至少五片吐司，包裹在餐巾裡，塞進袍子的口袋裡。其他三個麻瓜流氓跟在他身後，謹慎地看著他，好像還不太確定該怎麼看待他。

“Right.” He said, once they were outside, “You all need to shut up and let me tell it to you, ok? No interruptions.”

They nodded solemnly as they walked. He saw Sirius purse his lips. Tough, Remus thought, spitefully. You can listen to me, for once. So, he talked.

He found it much easier than telling Dumbledore – at least he knew for sure that the marauders were on his side. He tried to explain everything with as little emotional context as possible. He had known there was a werewolf nearby. He went to find them, he met Livia, Ferox intervened.
“好了。”他說，一旦他們在外面，“你們都需要閉嘴，讓我告訴你們，好嗎？不要打斷。”

他們在走路的時候嚴肅地點了點頭。他看到獵狐抿了抿嘴唇。雷木斯心裡想，這很艱難，你可以聽我說話，這一次。因此，他開始講述。

他發現這比告訴鄧布利多容易得多——至少他確定麻瓜流氓是站在他這邊的。他試圖以最少的情感背景來解釋一切。他知道附近有一隻狼人。他去找他們，遇到了莉維亞，費洛克斯介入了。

“Moody talked to me last summer,” he explained, finally, “He said something to me, and it made me… it just made me think about how useful I can be, that’s all. I have to stop looking at my furry little problem as… well, as a problem. If we’re going to war with dark creatures, then as a dark creature I ought to be--”

“You’re not a dark creature.” James said, suddenly, “You’re our Moony.”

Remus shrugged. He wouldn’t have put money on James being the first to interrupt, but now he was pretty glad he had. He left a pause; there was nothing more to tell. James was still looking at him, with a small crease between his eyebrows. He pushed his glasses up his nose, clearly thinking very deeply. Peter, of course, looked anxious. He was staring at his feet, rubbing his hands together. Remus didn’t look at Sirius. He looked for his fags instead.
“穆迪去年夏天跟我談過，”他最後解釋道，“他對我說了一些話，讓我……讓我開始思考自己能有多大用處，就這樣。我必須停止把我的毛茸茸的小問題看作……嗯，看作問題。如果我們要與黑暗生物開戰，那麼作為一個黑暗生物，我應該——”

“你不是黑暗生物。”詹姆斯突然說，“你是我們的月亮。”

雷木斯聳了聳肩。他原本不會賭詹姆斯會是第一個打斷的人，但現在他很高興他這樣做了。他留下了一個暫停；沒有更多的事情可以告訴了。詹姆斯仍然看著他，眉頭微微皺起。他把眼鏡推上鼻樑，顯然在深思。彼得當然看起來很焦慮。他盯著自己的腳，揉著雙手。雷木斯沒有看獵狐，而是找他的香煙。

“So,” James said, after swallowing, “She’s gone now, has she? The werewolf?”

“Livia,” Remus said, cigarette between his teeth, “Yeah, I think Ferox scared her off.”

“Too bloody right,” James nodded, much more comfortable talking action, “And I bet with Moody on the case she won’t be back any time soon, eh? So, are you in a lot of trouble? With Dumbledore?”

“I don’t think so.” Remus sighed. He rubbed his sore hip, “I think Dumbledore was more worried about me mucking up his spy ring, rather than breaking any rules.”

“He wouldn’t want to see you hurt. Any of us.” James said, sincerely. He eyed Remus’s awkward posture, “C’mon, there’s a bench down here, you can finish your toast.”

They made slow progress down towards the edge of the lake, where there were a few stone benches. It was too cold for anyone else to be out at this time on a Sunday, and Remus watched the late morning mist drift across the dark surface of the water as he chewed on the remains of his crusts. Sirius hadn’t spoken yet, since the owlery, and Remus was trying not to notice it. Sirius felt betrayed - Remus knew that as sure as he knew his own name. Betrayed even if he didn’t really have a right to feel it. This isn’t about you. Remus wanted to hiss at doleful, silent Sirius.
“那麼，”詹姆斯說，吞下去後，“她現在走了，對嗎？那隻狼人？”

“莉維亞，”雷木斯說，煙草夾在牙齒間，“是的，我想費洛克斯把她嚇跑了。”

“那是再對不過了，”詹姆斯點了點頭，談到行動時更自在，“我敢打賭有穆迪在場她不會很快回來的，那麼，你現在麻煩多嗎？和鄧布利多？”

“我不認為。”雷木斯嘆了口氣。他揉了揉酸痛的臀部，“我覺得鄧布利多更擔心我搞砸了他的間諜網，而不是違反規則。”

“他不會希望看到你受傷的。任何一個我們。”詹姆斯真誠地說。他盯著雷木斯尷尬的姿勢，“來吧，這裡有張長椅，你可以在這裡吃完吐司。”

他們慢慢地向湖邊走去，那裡有幾張石凳。這時候的星期天太冷了，沒有人會出門，雷木斯看著清晨的霧氣在水面上漂浮，咀嚼著剩下的麵包皮。自從貓頭鷹廳以來，獵狐還沒說話，雷木斯試圖不去注意。獵狐感到被背叛——雷木斯知道這一點，就像他知道自己名字一樣。即使他其實沒有權利感受到這種背叛。這不是關於你的。雷木斯想對憂鬱的、沉默的獵狐咆哮。

“Can’t believe we all slept through the most exciting night of the year, eh.” James nudged Remus, trying to bring a bit of levity to the otherwise rather sombre atmosphere.

“It wasn’t that exciting,” Remus grinned back, giving him what he wanted, “I was crap. If Ferox hadn’t come… I dunno.”

“D’you think she could have disapparated with you?” Peter asked, still wringing his pudgy little hands.

“I dunno.” Remus replied, “I think… I got the impression, anyway, that she needed to me agree. Like it had to be me who made the decision – otherwise I s’pose they could all just gang up and snatch me.”

“Well then!” James said, slapping his thigh triumphantly, “There’s no problem, is there? Well I mean, there’s no question.”

“No, of course not.” Remus said, quickly, “I’d never join Greyback.”

“Well then.” James repeated, satisfied.

Remus looked at his hands, still greasy from the toast. He wiped them on his trouser legs. Of course not. Of course he would never. Except. “Moony?” James said, sensing the odd quiet.

“I’d never join him.” Remus said, carefully. “And Livia was… she was awful, but.” He breathed in, “Not everything she said was wrong.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?” Sirius burst out. Remus still didn’t look at him, growing hot.

“Just that – well wizards treat us unfairly, and… and… Ugh, you lot wouldn’t understand.”

Sirius sprang up, as if he had been wound up to breaking point. He glared at Remus as if he was about to start screaming at him. Then he walked away, at an impossible pace.
“真不敢相信我們全都錯過了今年最激動人心的夜晚。”詹姆斯輕推雷木斯，試圖為這個相當陰沉的氛圍帶來些許輕鬆。

“也沒那麼激動人心，”雷木斯回以微笑，給了他想要的，“我表現很糟。如果費洛克斯沒來……我不知道。”

“你覺得她會不會和你一起消失？”彼得問道，仍在擰著他那胖乎乎的小手。

“不知道。”雷木斯回答道，“我覺得……反正我得到的印象是，她需要我同意。就像必須是我來做決定——否則我想他們可以一起圍攻，抓住我。”

“那麼！”詹姆斯拍了拍大腿，得意洋洋地說，“那就沒問題了，是吧？我意思是，沒有問題。”

“不，當然沒有。”雷木斯迅速說道，“我永遠不會加入格雷巴克。”

“那麼。”詹姆斯滿意地重複道。

雷木斯看著他那雙仍然沾滿吐司油脂的手。他把手擦在褲子上。當然不會。當然不會。除了。

“Moony?” James said, sensing the odd quiet.

“I’d never join him.” Remus said, carefully. “And Livia was… she was awful, but.” He breathed in, “Not everything she said was wrong.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?” Sirius burst out. Remus still didn’t look at him, growing hot.

“Just that – well wizards treat us unfairly, and… and… Ugh, you lot wouldn’t understand.”

Sirius sprang up, as if he had been wound up to breaking point. He glared at Remus as if he was about to start screaming at him. Then he walked away, at an impossible pace.

“Black!” James stood up, “Oi!”

“It’s fine.” Remus waved a hand, “Sorry, I shouldn’t have said anything, I can’t explain properly.”

“He’s been such a moody git lately.” James huffed, still watching the other boy storm away.

“Go after him, if you want,” Remus said. “Honestly, you’re the best at sorting him out when he’s like that. Me and Wormy’ll find you later, yeah?”

“Ok…” James said, already moving, “Thanks, Moony!”

“Those two are so weird sometimes.” Peter said, watching James catch up. “I swear I never know what anyone’s on about any more. It’s all war this and war that…”

“Yeah, it’s a bit of a pain, innit.” Remus replied. He had meant it sarcastically, but poor Peter had never been very quick on the uptake.

“Yeah, you know what I mean, don’t you, Moony? I just think… we’re only sixteen, can’t we think about something other than doing the ‘right thing’ all the time? We used to have fun.”

Remus was only half listening. He stretched, rubbing his hip again to see if it would move for him.

“Think I might to back to bed, Pete. Or the library. Why don’t you go and see Dezzie?”

“What? You didn’t know?!” Peter stared at him incredulously as he helped Remus to his feet.

“Know what?” Remus asked, arching his back again for good measure.

“She dumped me.”

“Oh shit.” Remus blinked, “Sorry, mate! Was that last night too?”

“Last week.” Peter said, with an uncharacteristic coldness in his voice.

“Sorry!” Remus said again embarrassed. He didn’t think he had actually spoken to Peter about anything much in weeks – he’d been so wrapped up in Sirius, and the wolf pack, and Sirius, and Christopher… he resolved to do much better with all of his friends. After all, as soon as he turned seventeen they would be all he had. “I’m really sorry, Wormtail.” He said, kindly, “Want to play chess instead, then?”

“月亮？”詹姆斯感覺到那異樣的靜默。

“我永遠不會加入他。”雷木斯小心翼翼地說，“莉維亞……她很可怕，但。”他吸了口氣，“她說的不是所有事情都是錯的。”

“那是什麼意思？”獵狐突然冒出來。雷木斯仍然沒有看他，臉變得紅熱。

“只是……嗯，巫師們對我們不公平，然後……然後……唉，你們不會理解的。”

獵狐彷彿被上緊發條到達了崩潰的邊緣。他怒視著雷木斯，彷彿他馬上就要開始對他大喊大叫。然後他以不可能的速度走開了。

“黑！詹姆斯站起來，“喂！”

“沒事的。”雷木斯揮了揮手，“對不起，我不該說什麼，我解釋得不好。”

“他最近一直很情緒低落。”詹姆斯喘息著，仍然看著另一個男孩暴走。

“如果你想，去找他吧，”雷木斯說，“說真的，你最擅長處理他這樣的情況。我和蟲尾稍後會去找你的，好嗎？”

“好的……”詹姆斯說，已經開始移動，“謝謝你，月亮！”

“那兩個有時候真奇怪。”彼得說，看著詹姆斯追上去，“我發誓我再也搞不懂他們在說什麼了。全是戰爭什麼的……”

“是啊，這有點煩。”雷木斯回答道。他本來是帶有諷刺的，但可憐的彼得總是很慢。

“是啊，你知道我的意思，不是嗎，月亮？我只是覺得……我們才十六歲，不能想些其他的事情嗎？除了總是做‘正確的事情’之外？我們以前有過快樂的時光。”

雷木斯只是半聽。 他伸展了一下，再次揉著他的臀部，看它是否能動一動。

“我想我可能會回床上，彼得。或者去圖書館。你為什麼不去找德茲呢？”

“什麼？你不知道？！”彼得驚訝地盯著他，幫他站起來。

“知道什麼？”雷木斯再次拱起背部，確保自己姿勢正確。

“她甩了我。”

“哦，糟了。”雷木斯眨了眨眼，“對不起，朋友！那也是昨晚的事嗎？”

“上星期。”彼得說，聲音中帶著不尋常的冷漠。

“對不起！”雷木斯再次感到尷尬。他覺得自己其實幾周來沒和彼得談過什麼——他一直忙於獵狐、狼人小組、獵狐、克里斯托弗……他決定要更好地對待所有朋友。畢竟，一旦他滿十七歲，他們將會是他唯一擁有的。“我真的很抱歉，蟲尾。”他友善地說，“那要不要改去玩棋？”

 

Monday 16th January 1977

Remus was genuinely sorry to hear about Peter and Dezzie. She’d never really been part of their group, but she was a nice enough girl, and had made Peter happy – she had given him something that James and Sirius did not have, and that was special in itself. The breakup had ostensibly been simply down to a change in attitudes. They had been seeing each other since they were fourteen, and at sixteen it seemed that Desdemona wished to spread her wings a bit.

“她可能會改變主意嗎？”Remus 在第三局棋賽中對愁眉苦臉的 Peter 提議。

“She might change her mind?” Remus suggested to a glum faced Peter over their third chess game.

“Doubt it,” Peter huffed. “Reckon she’s got a crush on that Roman Rotherhide bloke. Wanker. Knight to F3.”

“我不太相信。”Peter 吹了口氣，“我覺得她對那個 Roman Rotherhide 小子有點意思。混蛋。騎士到 F3。”

“I thought Mary was seeing him?”

“我以為 Mary 正在和他交往？”

“Mary sees everyone,” Peter sniggered, meanly. “She’s like the girl version of Padfoot.”

“Mary 看過每個人，”Peter 嘲弄地笑了，“她就像 Padfoot 的女孩版。”

Ferox’s reply arrived later that Sunday evening.

Ferox 的回信在那個星期天晚上晚些時候到達了。

Remus,

I’m afraid I can’t invite you into Hogsmeade, but I can meet you for supper on Monday evening at the castle. I’ll meet you outside the Great Hall at 6pm.

“Remus，

我恐怕不能邀請你進入霍格斯米德，但我可以在星期一晚上在城堡裡和你共進晚餐。我會在下午六點在大禮堂外面見你。”

That was ok. Good enough – he could ask what he needed to ask anywhere. Remus went to his lessons as usual on Monday, and told the marauders at lunch time. Sirius was speaking to him again, but not properly. For every small step forward, he and Remus seemed to take three enormous steps back again.

“那沒問題。足夠好了——他可以在任何地方問他需要問的問題。Remus 照常上課，並在午餐時間告訴萬獸部的夥伴們。Sirius 又開始和他說話，但不是很正常。每邁出一步，他和 Remus 似乎又退了三步。”

“I’m having tea with Ferox tonight,” he explained. “So I won’t see you until later.”

“今晚我和 Ferox 一起喝茶，”他解釋說，“所以我不會在晚些時候見到你們。”

He knew James had quidditch practice, which Peter would be watching, now that he had no girlfriend. Sirius sat up straighter.

“我知道 James 有魁地奇練習，Peter 會去看，既然他沒有女朋友。Sirius 坐得更直了。”

“Should we come too?”

“我們也應該來嗎？”

“Why?” Remus asked, fixing him with a cold stare. Sirius shrugged and looked back at his soup.

“為什麼？”Remus 以冷漠的眼神盯著他。Sirius 聳了聳肩，回頭看著他的湯。

By the time six o’clock rolled around, Remus was practically pacing the halls. He didn’t want to look overeager, so he’d waited at the top of the landing before going down the main staircase at just one minute past the hour. This turned out to be something of a mistake. By the time he got there, Mary had found Ferox and struck up a conversation.

“當六點鐘來臨時，Remus 已經幾乎在走廊裡徘徊。他不想看起來過於急切，所以他在樓梯上等到整點過後的一分鐘才下樓。這結果證明是一個錯誤。當他到達那裡時，Mary 已經找到了 Ferox，開始了對話。”

“Remus!” She grinned as he descended, “Look who’s here!”

“Remus！”她微笑著說，“看看誰在這裡！”

“It’s Mr Lupin I’m here to see,” Ferox smiled easily, shaking Remus’s hand. It all felt very grown up.

“是我來見 Lupin 先生的，”Ferox 輕鬆地微笑著，握著 Remus 的手。這一切都感覺非常成熟。

“I’m trying to convince him to come back and teach us again,” Mary explained cheerfully, “We miss him, don’t we, Remus?”

“我在試圖說服他回來再教我們，”Mary 樂觀地解釋說，“我們很想念他，不是嗎，Remus？”

“Er… yeah, of course.” Remus nodded. Mary smiled at him and touched his forearm, leaning into him in a very familiar sort of way. He couldn’t remember if she’d ever done that before.

“嗯……是的，當然。”Remus 點點頭。Mary 對他微笑，輕觸他的前臂，以非常親密的方式靠近他。他不記得她以前是否這樣做過。

“Can you wait here?” She asked Ferox, still touching Remus, “Marlene’ll be down in a minute, she’d love to see you…”

“你能在這裡等一下嗎？”她問 Ferox，仍然觸摸著 Remus，“Marlene 一會兒就會下來，她會很高興見到你……”

“I’m afraid we need to be getting on,” Ferox said, kindly, “Maybe another time, Miss MacDonald. Remus, shall we?”

“我恐怕我們需要繼續前行了，”Ferox 善意地說，“也許下次吧，Miss MacDonald。Remus，我們走吧？”

Remus followed Ferox up the staircase, rather than towards the hall, leaving Mary at the bottom. “Thought we could do with a bit of privacy,” Ferox murmured, “Professor Kettleburn has kindly let me borrow my old office.”

“Remus 跟隨 Ferox 上樓，而不是向大廳走去，留下 Mary 在樓下。“我覺得我們可以需要點隱私，”Ferox 低聲說，“Kettleburn 教授好心讓我借用了我的舊辦公室。”

Remus had only been in the Care of Magical Creatures office once since Ferox had left – to request an extension on an essay after a full moon. Kettleburn was a spartan sort of man, who had chosen not to decorate at all, but who had stacks of paperwork strewn all over the place. Ferox tidied this neatly away with a swish of his wand, before summoning drinks and two plates for supper. The food appeared just as it did in the Great Hall – ham, egg and chips tonight.

“自從 Ferox 離開後，Remus 只進過一次魔法生物護理辦公室——在滿月後申請延長一篇論文的時間。Kettleburn 是個簡樸的人，他選擇完全不裝飾，但文件堆得滿地都是。Ferox 用魔杖輕輕一揮，將這些整齊地收拾好，然後召喚了飲料和兩盤晚餐。食物和大禮堂裡的一樣——今晚是火腿、雞蛋和薯條。”

“My favourite,” Ferox smiled, motioning that Remus begin eating. They tucked in quietly for a few minutes, and Remus enjoyed the novelty of sharing dinner with a friend, rather than hundreds of other people.

“我最喜歡的，”Ferox 微笑著示意 Remus 開始吃。他們安靜地吃了幾分鐘，Remus 享受著和朋友共進晚餐的感覺，而不是數百個其他人。

“So.” He said, mopping up the last of his egg yolk with a chip, “I wanted to talk about Livia.”

“所以。”他說，用薯條擦拭掉最後的蛋黃，“我想談談 Livia。”

“Look at you,” Ferox nodded at him, “Two years ago I could barely get you to say two words to me about yourself.”

“看看你，”Ferox 對他點點頭，“兩年前我幾乎無法讓你對我談論你自己兩句話。”

Remus shrugged,

“Remus 聳了聳肩，

“No time to be shy anymore, I s’pose. There’s a war on.”

“我想，沒有時間再害羞了。戰爭在打。”

“Don’t I bloody know it.” Ferox sighed. “All right, go on lad,”

“我真他媽知道。”Ferox 嘆了口氣，“好吧，繼續說吧，小子。”

“Ok.” Remus took a deep breath. “I don’t want to join her – them – Greyback. I don’t want to be a part of their… their pack, or anything like that.”

“好的。”Remus 深吸了一口氣。“我不想加入她——他們——Greyback。我不想成為他們……他們的包夥的一部分，或者類似的東西。”

Ferox nodded, but said nothing. Remus, emboldened, continued, “But… I think I could find them easily. I think they could find me. And they still want me. That’s what Dumbledore wants, isn’t it? A backdoor to the werewolves. I can do that. I know what I did was stupid – and I won’t do it again, not while I’m at Hogwarts, not until I’m at least of age. But… now I know her, now I know what they’re like, I’m not afraid. I can do it.”

“Ferox 點點頭，但什麼也沒說。Remus 鼓起勇氣繼續說，“但……我覺得我可以輕鬆找到他們。我覺得他們可以找到我。他們還是想要我。那是 Dumbledore 想要的，不是嗎？一條通向狼人世界的後門。我可以做到這一點。我知道我之前做的事很愚蠢——我不會再這麼做了，不會在霍格沃茲的時候，不會在我至少成年之前。但……現在我了解她了，現在我知道他們的樣子，我不害怕。我可以做到。”

“I see. Has Dumbledore said—”

“我明白了。Dumbledore 說過——”

“No, but I’m not stupid.” Remus said, dismissively, “He hasn’t asked me to do anything, because he never asks. He just makes sure you know what he wants. But there are things I want, too.”

“沒有，但我不是傻子。”Remus 不屑地說，“他沒有讓我做任何事情，因為他從不問。他只是確保你知道他想要什麼。但我也有一些想要的東西。”

“And what are those?”

“那些是什麼？”

“I’m not signing the register, on my birthday.” Remus said, steadily. “I’m not exposing myself to the ministry. I’ve looked into it – if I do, I have to report to them for three days every month. They’ll lock me up – I assume, it’s not very clear from the information they put out. I can’t keep a job, like that. If Dumbledore needs a spy, then he needs me to be untraceable, too.”

“我不會在我的生日那天簽署登記。”Remus 穩定地說，“我不會暴露自己給魔法部。我查過了——如果我這麼做，我每個月必須向他們報到三天。他們會把我鎖起來——我猜測，從他們公布的信息中並不太清楚。我不能那樣保持一份工作。如果 Dumbledore 需要一個間諜，那麼他需要我也不能被追蹤。”

“I see,” Ferox said again, “But—”

“我明白了，”Ferox 再次說道，“但——”

“I’m not finished.” Remus snapped. “Afterwards. If we win. I want amnesty for the werewolves. Even Greyback’s pack. Not Greyback, obviously, but his followers.”

“我還沒說完。”Remus 突然說，“之後。如果我們贏了。我想要狼人們的特赦。甚至是 Greyback 的包夥。不是 Greyback，顯然，但他的追隨者。”

“Remus, that’s completely—”

“Remus，這完全——”

“No it isn’t.” Remus folded his arms. “You don’t know. Livia might be batshit, but she’s not wrong. A choice between freedom under Greyback or imprisonment under the ministry is an easy one to make.”

“不是。”Remus 抱著雙臂。“你不知道。Livia 可能瘋了，但她並不錯。選擇在 Greyback 下的自由或在魔法部下的監禁是很容易的。”

Ferox looked at him, for a very long time. Remus drank his pumpkin juice, his throat very dry. His heart was beating so fast he thought that Ferox must be able to hear it.

“Ferox 盯著他看了很久。Remus 喝了他的南瓜汁，喉嚨非常乾。他的心跳得如此之快，他以為 Ferox 一定能聽到。”

“These aren’t necessarily things Dumbledore can do,” Ferox said, slowly.

“這些不一定是 Dumbledore 能做到的事情，”Ferox 慢慢地說。

“Bullshit.” Remus set down his goblet, a little too hard on the desk.

“胡說。”Remus 把酒杯放下，稍微用力了一些在桌子上。

“I can bring it to him.” Ferox sighed, sounding defeated, “But I can’t make promises.”

“我可以把它帶給他。”Ferox 嘆了口氣，聽起來很沮喪，“但我不能保證。”

“Well,” Remus replied, coolly, “I’m seventeen in two months. So there’s the deadline.”

“那麼，”Remus 冷冷地回應，“我兩個月後就滿十七歲了。所以這是最後期限。”

“Blimey.” Ferox scratched his head. He sounded impressed, rather than angry, “You don’t half remind me of Lyall, right now. What happened to the hot-headed kid always getting into scrapes?”

“哎呀。”Ferox 抓了抓頭。他的語氣聽起來更像是印象深刻，而不是生氣，“你現在真是讓我想起了 Lyall。那個總是惹麻煩的急躁小子去哪了？”

“I’m still hot-headed.” Remus said, simply, “I think Lyall probably was too. It’s not that I think Dumbledore can solve all my problems. But I wanted to lay all my cards on the table.”

“我仍然很急躁。”Remus 簡單地說，“我覺得 Lyall 也可能是這樣。我不是認為 Dumbledore 能解決我所有的問題。但我想把我的底牌都攤開。”

“Fair enough.” Ferox nodded. “All’s fair in love and war, eh?”

“公平。”Ferox 點點頭，“愛情和戰爭中一切都公平，對吧？”

“I wouldn’t know about that.” Remus replied.

“我不知道這些。”Remus 回答道。

Their plates vanished, suddenly, and then reappeared, bearing two big wedges of chocolate cake topped with fruit. They ate them quietly, both deep in thought, occasionally shooting looks at each other.

“他們的盤子突然消失了，然後再出現，擺著兩大塊上面有水果的巧克力蛋糕。他們靜靜地吃著，兩人都陷入了沉思，偶爾互相瞥了一眼。”

“How’s it going with Moody?” Remus asked, casually. “I s’pose you probably can’t tell me anything.”

“和 Moody 的情況怎麼樣？”Remus 隨口問道，“我想你可能不能告訴我什麼。”

“You suppose right,” Ferox nodded. “Moody’s well, though. Complete nutter, but glad he’s on our side.”

“你猜對了，”Ferox 點點頭，“Moody 還好。完全是個瘋子，但很高興他在我們這邊。”

“And Achilles?”

“Achilles 很好。”Ferox 微笑道，“和我一位朋友住在一起。說到這個——和 MacDonald 小姐的戀情進展怎麼樣，Lupin？”

“The what?!” Remus stared at him, wide eyed. Ferox laughed,

“什麼？！”Remus 眼睛瞪大地盯著他。Ferox 笑了，

“With Miss MacDonald, down there? I’d have matched you better with Marlene, but I s’pose the heart wants what it wants, eh?”

“和下面的 Miss MacDonald？我會更匹配你和 Marlene，但我想心想要的就是想要的，對吧？”

“Oh!” Remus relaxed, “No, Mary’s just a friend.”

“哦！”Remus 放鬆了，“不，Mary 只是朋友。”

“Hm,” Ferox said, obviously not quite believing him. “What’s brought on this personality switch, then?”

“嗯，”Ferox 說，顯然不太相信他。“那麼這種性格轉變是什麼原因呢？”

“Why does it have to be about a girl? Two years is a long time.” Remus said, annoyed. “It’s not like I’ve suddenly changed. Look, I first said I’d help Dumbledore fight when I was fourteen.” He tried to explain. “And then last year, James Potter told us all that he planned to join, as soon as he left school, and we all said we would too, and I… I was always going to, you know, but just because James and Sirius wanted to. I never had a reason myself, really.”

“為什麼一定要跟女孩有關？兩年是很長的時間。”Remus 生氣地說，“我並不是突然改變了。你看，我第一次說我要幫助 Dumbledore 作戰的時候我才十四歲。”他試著解釋，“然後去年，James Potter 告訴我們他打算在離開學校後立即參加，我們都說我們也會參加，而我……我一直都會，知道嗎，但只是因為 James 和 Sirius 想要。我自己其實並沒有真正的理由。”

“We’re all going to suffer, if you know who wins.” Ferox said.

“如果你知道誰贏了，我們都會遭受痛苦。”Ferox 說道。

“Yeah, I s’pose.” Remus nodded diplomatically. “I know that. But I meant… well I never really had much of a stake in it, before. Now I’ve met Livia, I don’t think anything’s going to be that great for me after school finishes, no matter who’s in power. I want a stake. If I live.”

“是的，我想。”Remus 外交性地點點頭，“我知道。但我的意思是……嗯，我以前真的沒有太多利害關係。現在我遇見了 Livia，我不認為在學校結束後，無論誰掌權，都會有什麼對我來說特別好的。我想要有一份利害關係。如果我活著。”

“You shouldn’t compare yourself to them, Remus. The pack.”

“Remus，你不應該拿自己和他們比較。那一群人。”

“I can’t really help it, can I? Everybody else will. You know my friend, Sirius Black?”

“我真的無法幫助自己，不是嗎？其他人會的。你知道我的朋友 Sirius Black 嗎？”

“Not well,” Ferox replied, “The Potters took him in, didn’t they? I thought it was a bit odd, knowing his family.”

“不太熟悉，”Ferox 回答，“Potters 收養了他，不是嗎？我覺得這有點奇怪，知道他的家庭。”

“Exactly!” Remus said, triumphantly, “Sirius is my best friend, and a Gryffindor, and the Potters love him – but to everyone else he’s still a Black. He’ll spend the rest of his life trying not to be, no matter how many good things he does. Because people never forget things like that – they think that what you are makes you who you are. It’s the same for me.”

“正是如此！”Remus 驕傲地說，“Sirius 是我最好的朋友，還是 Gryffindor，Potters 愛他——但對其他人來說，他仍然是個 Black。他會用餘生來試圖不成為 Black，不管他做多少好事。因為人們從不會忘記這樣的事情——他們認為你的身份決定了你是誰。對我來說也是一樣。”

Remus was struggling now to keep explaining. Ferox looked completely lost. He sighed, heavily, “I’m sorry it has to go through you. You’re the only person I know who has any weight with Dumbledore who I trust. Who trusts me.”

“Remus 現在努力著繼續解釋。Ferox 看起來完全迷失了。他重重地嘆了口氣，“對不起，這件事得由你來處理。你是我知道唯一一個在 Dumbledore 那裡有影響力且我信任的人。信任我的人。”

Ferox watched him again, with a steady expression.

“Ferox 再次用穩定的表情看著他。”

“I will try, Remus. You’re asking a lot.”

“我會試試的，Remus。你要求的太多了。”

Remus frowned. He thought about Livia – her bare feet, her ragged clothes; her terrible cough and the hollow look in her eyes. It was no way to live.

“Remus 皺著眉頭。他想到 Livia——她赤裸的腳，她破舊的衣服；她可怕的咳嗽和眼中的空洞目光。這不是一種活法。”

He might be asking for a lot. But Remus had never asked for anything before in his life. He hoped Dumbledore remembered that.

“他可能要求很多。但 Remus 在一生中從未要求過任何東西。他希望 Dumbledore 記得這一點。”

 

Chapter 108: Sixth Year: Mary, Mary

 

 Mary, Mary, where you goin' to?

Mary, Mary, can I go too?

This one thing I will vow ya,

I'd rather die than to live without ya,

Mary, Mary, where you goin' to?

 

 

 

Friday 5th February 1977

The rest of January seemed to whizz by in a blur, and Remus just tried to get back to normal. The full moon landed early in the month, and Remus threatened to lock the marauders out of the shack if they didn’t promise to stay inside this time. Eventually he knew he would weaken and allow them to begin letting him out again - but he felt that they ought to play it safe, at least for a while.
一月的剩餘時間似乎在朦朧中迅速過去，雷姆斯試圖回到正常的生活。月初的滿月來臨，雷姆斯威脅如果他們不保證這次待在小屋裡，就會把萬惡的巫師們鎖在外面。最終他知道自己會動搖，允許他們再次讓他出來——但他覺得他們應該先保持安全，至少一段時間。

The sudden distance between Remus and Sirius was painful, and made all the more difficult by the fact that their relationship (such that it was) had been a secret all along. Remus resorted to his usual tactic, burying himself in his studies, while Sirius absorbed himself in Emmeline. He was sulking, Remus knew. And for once, he didn’t blame him. The whole messy situation only proved to Remus that they had to put a stop to it as soon as they could. It was becoming impossible to stay friends, and they needed to be friends before anything else.
雷姆斯和天狼星之間突然的距離令人痛苦，更加困難的是，他們的關係（不管它是什麼）一直是秘密。雷姆斯採取了他一貫的策略，把自己埋在學業中，而天狼星則全心投入到艾蜜琳中。他在陰沉，雷姆斯知道。這次，他不責怪他。這整個混亂的局面只證明了雷姆斯，他們必須儘快停止這一切。保持朋友變得不可能了，他們需要先做朋友，然後才能做其他的。

The problem was, Sirius hadn’t come to him at all since that night they’d slept in the common room. Remus was terrified that this meant it was already over - that Sirius had come to the realisation on his own, and simply chosen to stop. And Remus would not allow that. It couldn’t just be finished , without either of them saying anything about it. Surely?
問題是，自從那晚他們在公共休息室睡覺後，天狼星根本沒有來找過他。雷姆斯害怕這意味著一切已經結束——天狼星自己意識到這一點，然後選擇停止。而雷姆斯不會允許這樣。這不能僅僅結束，沒有任何人談論這個問題。難道不是嗎？

You held my hand. He wanted to say. You saw me cry.
你牽過我的手。他想說。你看見我哭了。

The day after the February full moon, Remus lay in his usual hospital bed, pondering these things. He had a cut on his arm, which Madam Pomfrey had told him to practice his healing charms on. It was very basic, but he was so tired after his transformation,
滿月後的第二天，雷姆斯躺在他常用的醫院床上，思索著這些事情。他的手臂上有一道傷口，波芬夫人告訴他要在傷口上練習治療咒語。這很基本，但在變身後他已經很疲憊了，

“You have to try, dear,” the medi-witch said, unsympathetically, “You wanted to be able to take care of yourself after the moons, so you’ll just have to learn to find the strength.”
“你得嘗試一下，親愛的，”女醫師無情地說，“你想要在月亮過後能夠照顧自己，所以你得學會找到力量。”

He prodded the cut, already healing by itself anyway, making another half-hearted attempt to fix it. Nothing. The marks Livia had left were dulled to pale pink now, and Madam Pomfrey thought they would probably vanish, in time, as they weren’t inherently magical wounds.
他戳了戳那道已經自行癒合的傷口，再次心不在焉地嘗試修復它。什麼也沒有。莉維亞留下的痕跡現在變成了淡粉紅色，波芬夫人認為它們隨著時間的推移可能會消失，因為它們並不是固有的魔法傷口。

“You’re welcome to leave,” she called to him, now, from her office. “If you’re just going to sit there moping… Go and see your friends.”
“你可以離開了，”她現在從她的辦公室裡喊道，“如果你只是坐在那裡愁眉苦臉……去見你的朋友們吧。”

Remus didn’t bother telling her that it was his friends - or rather, one friend in particular - he was moping about. But he never thought twice when she gave permission for him to leave, so he got up and dressed quickly, hurrying out of the hospital wing,
雷姆斯沒有告訴她他所愁苦的其實是他的朋友——或者說，特定的一個朋友。但當她允許他離開時，他從未多想，所以他迅速起床穿衣，急忙走出醫院翼，

“See you Tuesday!” He called, on his way out.
“星期二見！”他在出去的時候叫道。

It was after lunch, and there was only one lesson left that day - Care of Magical Creatures - which Remus wasn’t much in the mood for. He was ahead of the rest of the class anyway, and no one would miss him. He sloped along the corridors aimlessly for a while, still thinking about Sirius and Emmeline, and how he was ever going to... wait a minute .
午餐後，只剩下一節課——魔法生物護理——雷姆斯對這門課沒有什麼興趣。他已經在班級中領先了，沒有人會錯過他。他漫無目的地沿著走廊走了一會兒，仍然在想天狼星和艾蜜琳，還有他怎麼辦……等等。

He stopped and frowned, looking at the nearest portrait. Something was very off about it. The painting depicted an elderly wizard with thinning hair and a neat little goatee peering through a large golden telescope. For some reason, he was wearing an enormous bright red curly wig. It didn’t seem to bother him - he just kept adjusting the sight on his contraption, murmuring quietly to himself. Remus snorted, and looked at the next picture along.
他停下來皺著眉頭，看著最近的一幅畫。畫中描繪了一位年老的巫師，頭髮稀疏，梳著整潔的小鬍子，透過一個大金色望遠鏡觀察。出於某種原因，他戴著一個巨大的鮮紅色捲髮假髮。這似乎不困擾他——他只是繼續調整他裝置上的視野，低聲自言自語。雷姆斯哼了一聲，接著看下一幅畫。

This one contained a group of pretty, buxom young shepherdesses tending to their flock - and they all had bright red wigs on too. The same with the next portrait - a witch carrying an overflowing basket of fruit, garish scarlet curls bouncing on her head. And the next - a sinister looking monk, whose red wig actually sat on top of his hood. None of the subjects of the paintings seemed at all perturbed, as Remus followed the trail of bizarre headwear to the third floor mezzanine.
這幅畫描繪了一群美麗的豐滿小牧女們照顧她們的羊群——她們都戴著鮮紅色的假髮。接著是下一幅畫——一位巫婆提著滿滿一籃的水果，鮮豔的猩紅色捲髮在她頭上跳動。再下一幅——一位看起來陰森的僧侶，他的紅色假髮實際上坐落在他的頭巾上。畫中的人物似乎都沒有受到困擾，雷姆斯跟隨著這些奇異的頭飾來到了第三層夾層。

“Padfoot!” Remus gasped, when he found the culprit.
“天狼星！”當他找到罪魁禍首時，雷姆斯驚呼道。

Sirius was at ease, hands in his pockets, chatting casually to a painting of a giggly sea nymph in a large golden frame. When she saw Remus she gave a shriek and dived into the waves below.
天狼星輕鬆地站著，雙手插在口袋裡，隨意地跟一幅大金框中的咯咯笑的海妖畫作聊天。當她看到雷姆斯時，她尖叫了一聲，然後跳進了下面的波浪中。

“Aw, Moony, what’d you scare her for?” Sirius tutted, “I was just about to cast the spell.”
“哦，月亮，你為什麼嚇到她了？”天狼星咂了咂嘴，“我正打算施咒。”

“This is brilliant!” Remus grinned, gesturing at all of the pictures he’d passed, “How come you never told me you were doing it? Is James in on it?”
“這太棒了！”雷姆斯笑著，指著他經過的所有畫，“你怎麼從來沒告訴我你在做這些？詹姆斯知道嗎？”

“Yeah, he’s taking the east wing,” Sirius nodded, moving on to the next painting. “We just had the idea walking back to bed this morning. Sorry, thought you’d be sleeping still.”
“是的，他在東翼，”天狼星點了點頭，繼續看下一幅畫。“我們只是早上回床上的時候想到的。抱歉，以為你還在睡覺。”

“Madam Pomfrey let me go…”
“波芬夫人讓我離開了……”

“Oh right. You’ll probably want to go to the library, or something? I’m nearly finished here, no need for you to stick around.”
“哦，對了。你可能想去圖書館，或者其他地方？我快完成了，你不需要留在這裡。”

“No, I--”
“不，我——”

“Oh shit!”
“哦，天啊！”

The big grandfather clock in the great hall had begun chiming - every classroom door was about to burst open, and students come pouring out for their next lesson. “They’ll know it’s us!” Sirius said, “Quick!” He pulled James’s invisibility cloak out from his robes and raised it up like a tent.
大禮堂裡的大掛鐘開始敲響——每個教室的門即將打開，學生們蜂擁而出，準備上他們的下一節課。“他們會知道是我們！”天狼星說，“快點！”他從袍子裡拿出詹姆斯的隱形斗篷，像帳篷一樣舉起來。

Remus hurried over to get under it, crouching slightly to compensate for their height difference. They both backed against the wall and waited. The doors began to slam open one at a time, and torrents of students filled the previously quiet space. Invisible and trapped, Remus realised that this was the best chance he’d had in days.
雷姆斯急忙走過去鑽進斗篷下，稍微蹲下以彌補他們的身高差異。他們倆靠在牆上等待。門開始一個接一個地砰然打開，學生們湧入之前安靜的空間。隱形並且被困住，雷姆斯意識到這是他幾天來最好的機會。

“Oi,” he whispered, directly into Sirius’s ear. He felt the other boy tense. “Are you still angry with me?”
“喂，”他低聲對天狼星的耳朵說。他感覺到另一個男孩緊張起來。“你還在生我的氣嗎？”

“What do you--”
“你說什麼——”

“You’re avoiding me.”
“你在避開我。”

“No I’m not.” Sirius pushed back, suddenly, as a third year girl came a bit too close. He backed straight into Remus’ chest, so that their whole bodies were now touching, practically. “James said to give you space.” He murmured, “ And you left me out of the Hog’s Head mission, even after we said we’d go together.”
“不，我沒有。”天狼星突然推開，當一名三年級的女孩靠得太近時。他直挺挺地撞到雷姆斯的胸口，使他們的整個身體幾乎接觸在一起。“詹姆斯說給你空間。”他低聲說，“而且你把我排除在豬頭酒吧的任務之外，即使我們說過要一起去。”

“It wasn’t a mission!” Remus whispered, struggling to keep his voice low. People were noticing the vandalised portraits now, pointing and laughing around them. “And I never agreed to go together!”
“那不是任務！”雷姆斯低聲說，努力保持聲音低沉。人們現在注意到那些被破壞的畫作，指指點點，圍繞著他們笑。“而且我從未同意一起去！”

“Well it sent the message that you wanted space!” Sirius shot back. He turned around, so that he could whisper into Remus’s ear too. They were still touching in some places, trying not to in others.
“那就傳達了你想要空間的信息！”天狼星反駁道。他轉過身來，這樣也能低聲對雷姆斯耳語。他們在某些地方仍然接觸著，其他地方則努力避免接觸。

“I’m sorry, ok?” Remus replied, “I didn’t think you’d take it so hard!”
“對不起，好嗎？”雷姆斯回答道，“我沒想到你會這麼難受！”

“I’m not taking it hard!” Sirius spluttered, mortally offended, “You make me sound like--”
“我並沒有這麼難受！”天狼星結結巴巴地說，感到受了重大的冒犯，“你讓我聽起來像是——”

“Like what?” Remus challenged.
“像什麼？”雷姆斯挑釁道。

He could feel Sirius begin to pull away, so he kissed him. Fuck it . Thankfully, Sirius kissed him back, and as the hallways emptied once again, the noise slowly petering out, the two boys hidden in plain sight under the cloak were completely oblivious.
他感覺到天狼星開始要抽身，所以他吻了他。該死。幸運的是，天狼星回吻了他，隨著走廊再次變得空蕩，噪音逐漸減少，這兩個在斗篷下暴露無遺的男孩完全無知。

Finally, Sirius did pull away, and Remus allowed it.
最後，天狼星確實抽身了，雷姆斯允許了這一點。

“So now you like me again.” Sirius grumbled. “Can’t bloody keep up with you.”
“所以現在你又喜歡我了。”天狼星嘟囔道。“真是跟不上你。”

“What are you talking about? You were avoiding me!”
“你在說什麼？你在避開我！”

“I thought you wanted me to!”
“我以為你想要我這樣！”

“Well… yeah, ok, I did, but not until we’d at least talked.”
“嗯……是的，我是這麼想的，但不是直到我們至少談過話。”

“I really don’t see what there is to talk about,” Sirius threw off the cloak. His hair fell softly back into place, while Remus’s was abuzz with static until he smoothed it down. “We’re either doing… y’know, or we’re not.”
“我真的不明白還有什麼好談的，”天狼星把斗篷扔掉。他的頭髮輕柔地回到了原位，而雷姆斯的頭髮則靜電在空中，直到他把它撫平。“我們要麼在做……你知道的，要麼就不做。”

God, I love arguing with you, Remus thought, feeling the heat flare up his neck, desire for Sirius just about burning him up, I could argue with you forever.
天啊，我愛跟你爭論，雷姆斯想，感覺到熱度在脖子上升起，對天狼星的慾望幾乎燒盡了他，我可以跟你爭論到永遠。

“So?!” Sirius said, backing away from Remus, knocking him out of his lustful haze. “Which is it?”
“那麼？！”天狼星說，退後一步把雷姆斯從他的慾望迷霧中驚醒。“到底是哪一種？”

“Well it’s a bit unfair to ask me that right now …”
“嗯，現在問我這個有點不公平……”

Sirius bit his bottom lip and cocked an eyebrow. Remus just about died.
天狼星咬著下唇，挑起一邊的眉毛。雷姆斯差點兒死掉了。

“C’mon, then.” Sirius jerked his head, moving towards the nearest staircase, “I’m bunking off Divination, dorm’s empty…”
“那麼，走吧。”天狼星揮了揮頭，走向最近的樓梯，“我逃了占卜課，宿舍空著……”

 

 

Thursday 10th February 1977

What a mess. By the end of the next week they were basically back to the beginning again. No talking, just touching. Sirius went out publicly with Emmeline, and at night he crept into Remus’s bed - provided the coast was clear, of course. Sirius was nothing if not discreet, in this case at least. Conversely, Remus was finding that part more difficult than ever.
真是一團糟。到下週結束時，他們基本上又回到了最初的狀態。沒有交談，只有接觸。天狼星公開和艾美琳約會，晚上則偷偷溜進雷姆斯的床上——當然，前提是安全的。至少在這種情況下，天狼星是非常謹慎的。相對地，雷姆斯發現這部分比以往任何時候都更加困難。

A few months ago it would have been fine - it had been fine. Just another secret to add to the list, another part of himself that he mustn’t let others see. But a lot had happened since then. Lily knew he was a werewolf, for example - that had been a surprising relief. Sharing the secret with her had been a good thing; he was quite sure. Then there was Christopher, so courageous in bearing his soul, and all Remus could offer back were half-truths.
幾個月前這一切還會是可以的——那時的確沒問題。只是再多一個秘密，再多一部分自己必須隱瞞。但自那以後發生了很多事。例如，莉莉知道了他是狼人——那是一種意外的解脫。與她分享這個秘密是一件好事；他很確定。然後還有克里斯托弗，勇敢地袒露自己的心聲，而雷姆斯能回應的只有半真半假的話。

When it came down to it, Remus could face a vicious killer in a dark alley; could make demands on Dumbledore himself. But he could not say no to Sirius. A real bloody mess.
說到底，雷姆斯可以在黑暗的小巷中面對兇狠的殺手；可以對鄧布利多提出要求。但他不能對天狼星說不。真是一團亂七八糟的麻煩。

In one moment of utter weakness, Remus even found himself nearly confessing everything to James. They were in the library, looking for some obscure Defence Against the Dark Arts textbook, when Potter brought up Valentine's Day, which was looming.
在一刻的徹底脆弱中，雷姆斯甚至發現自己差點向詹姆斯坦白一切。他們在圖書館裡，尋找一本晦澀的《黑魔法防禦術》教科書，當時波特提到了即將來臨的情人節。

“I’m asking Evans to Hogsmeade this weekend, obviously,” he said cheerily, “She’ll say no, for tradition’s sake, but I’m winning her over, I can feel it.”
“我當然要邀請埃文斯這個週末去霍格斯密德，”他愉快地說，“她會說不，為了傳統，但我能感覺到我會贏得她的心。”

“Mm.” Remus sighed, running his finger along the supple leather spines of the ancient texts. It wasn’t that he wanted to celebrate Valentine’s Day - it was a stupid, girly day which he wanted nothing to do with - but he resented everyone else wanting to do things for it.
“嗯。”雷姆斯嘆了口氣，沿著古老書籍柔軟的皮革書脊滑動手指。他並不想慶祝情人節——那是一個愚蠢的、少女氣的節日，他不想參與——但他對其他人想要為此做些什麼感到不滿。

“And Wormtail actually asked out Dorcas Meadowes.” James laughed, crouching down to check a lower shelf, “Can you believe that? Sometimes I think he’s got more guts than any of us.”
“而且蟲尾居然約了多卡斯·梅多斯。”詹姆斯笑著蹲下檢查低層書架，“你能相信嗎？有時候我覺得他比我們任何人都要有膽量。”

“Who’s Dorcas Meadowes?”
“多卡斯·梅多斯是誰？”

“You’ve met her, haven’t you? Hufflepuff in our year.”
“你見過她，對吧？我們年級的赫夫帕夫。”

Remus shrugged.
雷姆斯聳了聳肩。

“I s’pose Sirius is taking Emmeline to Hogsmeade.” He said.
“我猜天狼星會帶艾美琳去霍格斯密德。”他說。

“Yeah, ‘spect so.” James replied, pulling out a book and opening it to check the index. “Or another one of his many adoring fans, if she dumps him before then.”
“是的，估計是這樣。”詹姆斯回答，拿出一本書，打開查看索引。“或者是他眾多崇拜者中的另一位，如果她在那之前拋棄了他。”

“Hmph.”
“哼。”

“What?”
“什麼？”

“Nothing.” Remus shook his head, picking up a book at random and pretending to read it.
“沒什麼。”雷姆斯搖了搖頭，隨便拿起一本書假裝在讀。

“Not being a wee bit judgemental there, are you, Moony?” James wheedled, grinning.
“莫妮，你不是有點批判性嗎？”詹姆斯撒嬌地問，露出笑容。

"No. Of course not!” Remus fought to keep a straight face, “Padfoot can do whatever he wants. But... don't you think he's... I dunno, it's a bit much, all these girls. Like he’s showing off."
“不，當然不是！”雷姆斯努力保持嚴肅，“天狼星可以做任何他想做的事。但……難道你不覺得他……我也不知道，這些女孩有點太多了。就像他在炫耀一樣。”

“It’s not loads of girls, he’s been with Emmeline since December, hasn’t he?”
“這可不是很多女孩，自十二月以來他一直和艾美琳在一起，不是嗎？”

“January.” Remus replied, archly. “He was single over Christmas.”
“一月。”雷姆斯尖刻地回答，“聖誕節期間他是單身。”

“Well then. That’s fine. The rest are just flirting. He's always liked attention."
“那麼。這樣就好。其他的只是調情。他一直喜歡被注意。”

"Yeah, but..."
“是的，但……”

"Look, you just need to let Sirius be Sirius. He's a bit of a twat sometimes, but he's had a rough time of it. Let him enjoy himself if he wants." James stood up and looked at him sideways, appraising. "You know, Moony, wouldn't kill you to have a bit of fun either."
“聽著，你只需要讓天狼星做他自己就好。他有時候有點傻，但他經歷了艱難的時期。如果他想，就讓他好好享受吧。”詹姆斯站起來，側身看了看他，“你知道，莫妮，搞點樂子對你也不會有什麼壞處。”

“Ha.” Remus snorted.
“哈。”雷姆斯哼了一聲。

“Oh, mate!” James leaned over his shoulder to read the book Remus had open, “Well done, you’ve found it!”
“哦，夥計！”詹姆斯俯身看了看雷姆斯打開的書，“幹得好，你找到了！”

Have a bit of fun. So, perhaps Remus could blame it all on James - what happened next, anyway.
搞點樂子。所以，也許雷姆斯可以把一切都怪罪於詹姆斯——無論接下來發生了什麼。

Saturday 12th February 1977

She’d been flirting with him for ages – Remus knew pretty well what flirting looked like, by now. In the way she smiled, head tilted downwards. The way she had started pressing a hand to his chest when he made her laugh (which definitely seemed to happen more than usual, too). That cute little wiggle girls do when they’re fixing their tights. Eventually, they found themselves alone in the common room on that Hogsmeade weekend just before Valentine’s Day, homework finished, sitting squashed up on the sofa – and she just asked. Which was more than Sirius had ever done.
她對他調情已經很久了——雷姆斯現在對調情的樣子很了解。她笑的方式，低著頭的姿勢。當他讓她笑的時候，她開始把手放在他的胸前（這種情況似乎比平時更多了）。她修補絲襪時那可愛的小擺動。最終，他們在情人節前的霍格斯密德週末的公共休息室裡獨處，作業完成，擠在沙發上——她就那麼直接問了。這比天狼星做過的任何事都要多。

Remus and Mary had always been good friends; he liked her a lot. Her sunny, carefree nature had always appealed to his own gloomier side; her confidence to his introversion. He had ignored the flirting altogether, finding it mildly flattering, but otherwise uninteresting, until she decided to stay at the castle with him instead of going to Hogsmeade.
雷姆斯和瑪麗一直是好朋友；他很喜歡她。她陽光、無憂無慮的性格一直吸引著他那陰鬱的一面；她的自信與他的內向形成對比。他完全忽略了調情，覺得有點受寵若驚，但除此之外並不有趣，直到她決定留在城堡裡而不是去霍格斯密德。

“How come you’re not on a date, anyway?” Remus asked, as they signed off the last few notes for their History essays.
“那你為什麼沒有約會呢？”雷姆斯問，當他們為歷史論文簽署最後幾個筆記時。

“I wanted to spend time with you,” she smiled at him, settling back into the couch, her thigh touching his. “Can’t have you here all lonely.”
“我想和你一起度過時間，”她對他微笑，舒適地靠在沙發上，她的腿碰到了他的腿。“不能讓你在這裡孤單。”

“I’m not as much fun as Roman Rotherhide, I bet,” Remus laughed, still not quite believing the direction this was going. Her hand was on his knee. Was she going to leave it there? Oh crikey, no, she wasn’t…
“我打賭我沒有羅曼·羅瑟海德那麼有趣，”雷姆斯笑著說，仍然不太相信事情的發展。她的手在他的膝蓋上。她會把它留在那裡嗎？天啊，不，她不是……

“Well I don’t know about that,” she said, her voice low, leaning into him now as her long fingers moved slowly upwards, “I’d like to judge for myself…” she blinked slowly, and leaned in, kissing him softly on the lips. He was frozen to the spot. She smiled cheekily, “Well? Do you fancy it?”
“那我就不知道了，”她低聲說，現在靠在他身上，長手指慢慢向上移動，“我想自己判斷一下……”她慢慢眨了眨眼，靠近他，輕輕吻了他的嘴唇。他僵在原地。她顯得有些調皮地笑了，“那麼？你覺得怎麼樣？”

She was very pretty. He wasn’t as close to her as he was with Lily, so really, he reasoned – where was the harm? Whatever was going on with Sirius clearly didn’t mean neither of them could look elsewhere. And if Sirius could do it, then so could he. Only fair.
她非常漂亮。他和她的關係不像和莉莉那麼親密，所以他推理說——這有什麼害處呢？無論天狼星發生了什麼，顯然並不意味著他們兩人不能另尋他人。如果天狼星可以這樣做，那他也可以。公平點。

He led her upstairs.
他帶她上樓。

“You’re lovely,” she whispered, lying on his bed, eyes dark. He ran his hand up her soft thigh. Between her legs she was slick like warm oil.
“你很可愛，”她低聲說，躺在他的床上，眼睛黯淡。他把手滑上她柔軟的大腿。她雙腿之間的感覺滑膩得像溫暖的油。

Afterwards, he wasn’t sure what to make of it. It was certainly nothing to complain about – she was gorgeous, and the blood heat of her around him was definitely very exciting. But it wasn’t the same as those dark furtive nights with Sirius; had none of the rich complexity, the sure understanding. Mary’s soft jelly breasts were no substitute for Sirius’ firm grip. Her sweet panting sighs did not arouse him in the same way as Sirius’ hot, rasping groans.
事後，他不確定該如何看待這件事。這確實沒有什麼可抱怨的——她非常迷人，她的體溫在他身邊確實非常令人興奮。但這和那些與天狼星的黑暗秘密之夜不同；沒有那種豐富的複雜性，沒有那種確定的理解。瑪麗柔軟的乳房無法替代天狼星堅定的握把。她甜美的喘息聲也無法像天狼星的熱烈粗聲那樣激起他的情欲。

All things said and done, while Remus was certainly glad to have had the experience, he didn’t think it was something he was much interested in repeating.
總的來說，雖然雷姆斯對於這次經歷感到高興，但他並不認為這是他感興趣重複的事情。

Sunday 13th February 1977

Only a day after the Mary experiment, Sirius was back. It was mid-afternoon, but James and Peter were both in the library studying for an upcoming Muggle Studies exam. It began as ever, in silence and quiet, desperate need. Sirius was clutching and pulling at Remus’s clothes – then he rolled over and seemed to stop. He sniffed the pillow.
瑪麗的實驗只過了一天，天狼星又回來了。那是下午時分，但詹姆斯和彼得都在圖書館為即將到來的麻瓜研究考試而學習。一如既往地開始，充滿沉默和靜謐，急切的需求。天狼星抓著和扯拉雷姆斯的衣服——然後他翻了個身，似乎停了下來。他嗅了嗅枕頭。

“Is that…? That smells like…” he inhaled again. “Mary’s perfume?”
“那是……？那聞起來像……”他再深吸了一口氣。“瑪麗的香水？”

“Yeah,” Remus replied, uneasily. He had just removed his shirt and was feeling exposed already, not sure if they were stopping altogether or just making casual conversation. “She was here. Yesterday.”
“是的，”雷姆斯不安地回答。他剛脫下襯衫，感到已經很暴露，不確定他們是否完全停下來或只是隨便聊聊。“她昨天來過這裡。”

“Oh. Right. You and her?”
“哦。對了。你和她？”

“Well… it was just a one off sort of thing. Is that… ok?”
“嗯……這只是一次性的事情。這樣……可以嗎？”

“Yeah,” Sirius’ eyes clouded over slightly, as if his mind was working extra fast. “Yeah, of course. Good for you, mate!”
“是的，”天狼星的眼神略顯混濁，彷彿他的思緒在加速運轉。“是的，當然。對你來說好極了，夥計！”

“I know you two were… but it was ages ago now, and you’re with Emmeline, so…”
“我知道你們之前……但那是很久以前的事了，而且你現在和艾美琳在一起，所以……”

“Of course! I’m pleased for you, honestly, Mary’s great!”
“當然！我真的很為你高興，瑪麗很棒！”

“Yeah, she is.”
“是的，她確實很棒。”

There were a few moments of silence and Remus considered putting his shirt back on. But then Sirius leaned over, his expression changing, like a storm passing. He touched the scar that started at Remus’ collar bone, dragged his finger down along its ragged path to his naval. Remus shivered.
有幾分鐘的沉默，雷姆斯考慮是否要把襯衫穿上。但隨後天狼星靠過來，表情變化，像風暴過去。他觸摸了從雷姆斯鎖骨開始的傷疤，沿著那條破爛的路徑拖下來，直到肚臍。雷姆斯顫抖了一下。

“So, how was it?”
“那麼，感覺怎麼樣？”

“Wh-what?” Remus just wanted to close his eyes, relax under Sirius’ long fingers.
“什、什麼？”雷姆斯只是想閉上眼睛，放鬆在天狼星的長指下。

“Sex.” Sirius said.
“做愛。”

Remus’s eyes opened, confused. He wanted to know?!

“It was… good. She’s, um… so soft, y’know. I mean, you know …”

“Yeah,” Sirius breathed into his neck, half on top of him now, his hand working Remus’ belt. 

Afterwards they sat beside each other and all Remus wanted to do was lay his head on Sirius’s burning chest and close his eyes and just be . But he didn’t. He stared at his friend, who was already lighting a cigarette, skin still pink and shining, and thought to himself, ruefully – this will never be enough .

 

Chapter 109: Sixth Year: Heniokhos 

 

Friday 4th March 1977

“I’m going to go mad.” Marlene said, one evening, as the library was closing. She pressed her fingers into her eyes, exhausted. Her hair was fluffed up on her head like a dandelion from running her hands through it so often. “I thought the OWLs were bad…”
“我要瘋了。”瑪琳在一個晚上圖書館關閉時說。她把手指按在眼睛上，疲憊不堪。她的頭髮因為經常用手撥弄而蓬鬆地像蒲公英一樣。 “我以為OWLs已經很糟了……”

“That rhymes,” Mary sang, cheerfully, neatly rolling up her parchment.
“那真押韻，”瑪麗愉快地唱著，整齊地捲起她的羊皮紙。

“Helpful, thanks, MacDonald.” Marlene rolled her eyes.
“幫得上忙，謝謝，麥克唐納。”瑪琳翻了翻白眼。

“ You decided to keep Potions.” Mary bopped her friend lightly on the head with her rolled up essay.
“你決定繼續學習魔藥學。”瑪麗輕輕地用捲好的論文敲了敲她的朋友的頭。

“It’s a requirement for Healer training college.” Marlene sighed. “I wish I didn’t have to do it.”
“這是成為治療師培訓學院的要求。”瑪琳嘆了口氣。“我希望我不必這麼做。”

“I don’t know why you all hate it so much,” Lily yawned, hoisting her satchel onto her shoulder, “Potions is fun, it’s logical.”
“我不知道你們為什麼那麼討厭它，”莉莉打了個哈欠，將書包搭在肩上，“魔藥學很好玩，它很有邏輯。”

“Oh, shut up, Evans.” Mary and Marlene said in unison.
“哦，閉嘴，埃文斯。”瑪麗和瑪琳異口同聲地說。

Remus laughed, and put a fond arm around the redhead,
雷姆斯笑了，親切地把手臂搭在紅髮女孩的肩上，

“Poor Lily,” he said, in mock sympathy, “So misunderstood in your quest for knowledge.”
“可憐的莉莉，”他假裝同情地說，“在你尋求知識的過程中如此被誤解。”

She laughed too, and they all left the library together. They’d been there every night of the week - except when Lily had prefect duties or Marlene had quidditch; then it was just Remus and Mary. Which was surprisingly ok - Mary had made a few teasing jibes about their brief liaison, but hadn’t mentioned wanting to do it again, and appeared to be seeing Roman Rotherhide once more. Remus was relieved. One secret affair was quite enough.
她也笑了，他們一起離開了圖書館。他們一周的每個晚上都在那裡——除了莉莉有學監職責或瑪琳有魁地奇比賽的時候；那時只有雷姆斯和瑪麗。這出乎意料地還不錯——瑪麗對他們短暫的關係做了一些調侃，但沒有提到想要再做一次，看起來似乎再次與羅曼·羅瑟海德約會了。雷姆斯感到鬆了口氣。一次秘密的戀情已經足夠了。

It was early to be revising, but the four of them had decided to reconvene their study group this year in order to get through the first stage of their NEWTs. Final exams were still over a year away, but in Remus and Lily’s opinion, there was no such thing as being too prepared, particularly with the foundation year exams due in June.
雖然這時候還早，但他們四人已經決定今年重新召開學習小組，以便完成NEWTs的第一階段。期末考試還有一年多，但在雷姆斯和莉莉看來，沒有準備過頭的事，特別是基礎年考試將於六月到來。

“I’m knackered,” Mary said, as they approached the portrait of the fat lady (her wig had been removed by Professor Flitwick only a few days beforehand - she had apparently grown quite fond of it). “Day off, tomorrow?”
“我累壞了，”瑪麗說，當他們接近胖夫人的畫像（她的假髮在幾天前被弗立維克教授取下了——她顯然對那假髮頗有感情）。“明天休息一天？”

“If you want,” Remus said, catching her yawn, “I said I’d do a big study group on Sunday, so I’d be glad of the rest.”
“如果你想的話，”雷姆斯說，捕捉到她的哈欠，“我說過我會在週日做一個大的學習小組，所以我會很高興休息一下。”

“I don’t know how you do it, Lupin,” Mary shook her head in disbelief. “That’s perfect, though, leaves Saturday evening free.”
“我不知道你是怎麼做到的，盧平，”瑪麗搖頭表示不信。“不過這樣很好，星期六晚上可以空出來。”

“Got another date with Roman, have you?” Marlene asked, sounding a bit annoyed.
“又和羅曼約會了嗎？”瑪琳問，聽起來有點生氣。

“Yes, Marlene,” Mary rolled her eyes, “Despite your very apparent disapproval…”
“是的，瑪琳，”瑪麗翻了翻白眼，“儘管你非常明顯地不贊成……”

“I just think you ought to slow down, that’s all!” Marlene snapped, running her fingers through her hair again.
“我只是覺得你應該慢下來，就是這樣！”瑪琳咬牙切齒地說，再次把手指梳過頭髮。

“Well, as we’ve discussed before, it’s none of your business who I go out with, is it?!” Mary said, arching an eyebrow at her friend. Marlene had turned an uncharacteristic shade of hot pink, and was looking at the floor. Remus looked at both girls in surprise. He’d never seen them talk like that to each other before - usually they were the best of friends.
“好吧，正如我們之前討論過的，我和誰約會和你無關，不是嗎？！”瑪麗對她的朋友挑了挑眉。瑪琳的臉紅得異常，低頭看著地板。雷姆斯驚訝地看著兩個女孩。他從未見過她們這樣互相對話——通常她們是最好的朋友。

“Come on, we’re all tired,” Lily said, pushing forward, “ Blatherskite ,” she addressed the fat lady, who moved aside so they could all enter.
“來吧，我們都累了，”莉莉說，向前推，“胡說八道，”她對胖夫人說，胖夫人讓開了，他們都能進去。

“Evans!” James’s shout met them even before they were halfway through.
“埃文斯！”詹姆斯的叫聲在他們還沒走到一半時就迎接了他們。

“Yeah yeah, good evening, Potter,” Lily sighed, shaking her head. Remus caught her tiny smile, though she tried to cover it behind her long hair.
“是的，是的，晚上好，波特，”莉莉嘆了口氣，搖了搖頭。雷姆斯看到她微小的笑容，儘管她試圖用長髮遮掩。

“And Moony!” James continued, “Where are you been?”
“還有莫妮！”詹姆斯繼續說，“你去哪了？”

“Making furious love to us all, obviously,” Mary said, deadpan, pushing Sirius aside to sit nearest the fireplace.
“顯然是在和我們所有人激情做愛，”瑪麗冷冷地說，推開天狼星坐在離壁爐最近的位置。

“It’s true,” Lily grinned, sitting on the hearth rug, “He’s a stallion.”
“這是真的，”莉莉笑著說，坐在壁爐地毯上，“他是匹種馬。”

“It took all three of us to satisfy him!” Marlene piped up, looking a little bit happier.
“我們三個人都要一起才能滿足他！”瑪琳插話說，看起來有點高興。

“Oh my god, please shut up…” Remus groaned, taking his seat in his usual armchair. “We were in the library, as if you didn’t know.”
“哦，我的天啊，請閉嘴……”雷姆斯呻吟道，坐在他平常的扶手椅上。“我們在圖書館裡，難道你們不知道嗎。”

“Ah, of course,” James winked at him. “Say no more, Casanova.”
“啊，當然，”詹姆斯對他眨了眨眼。“別再說了，卡薩諾瓦。”

“Brr.” Mary held her hands up to the fire, “This castle is freezing.”
“哆嗦。”瑪麗把手伸向火爐，“這個城堡冷得要命。”

“ Scotland is freezing.” Sirius replied, monotonously. He was levitating a paper plane lazily about the room, slouched down in his chair.
“蘇格蘭很冷。”天狼星單調地回答。他懶洋洋地在房間裡懸浮著一架紙飛機，靠在椅子上。

“It’s only March,” Lily said, perkily, “It’ll start warming up soon enough. I can’t wait for the summer.”
“現在才三月，”莉莉愉快地說，“很快就會開始變暖了。我迫不及待想迎接夏天。”

“Nah, then I’ll be too hot,” Mary sighed, “Our flat is ridiculous, even if you open all the windows. S’pose I can do magic this year, though – am I allowed to if my family are muggles?”
“不，到了夏天我會太熱，”瑪麗嘆了口氣，“我們的公寓真是太糟糕了，即使你打開所有窗戶也是如此。不過我想今年我可以施魔法——如果我的家人是麻瓜，我允許這樣做嗎？”

“Oh, I do,” Lily said, biting her lip, “Are we not supposed to?”
“哦，我知道，”莉莉說，咬著嘴唇，“我們不是不應該這樣做嗎？”

“Why don’t you come and stay with me, Mary?” Marlene said, “More room at our house, it’s cooler.”
“為什麼不來我這裡住呢，瑪麗？”瑪琳說，“我們家有更多的空間，更涼爽。”

“Well I wouldn’t mind a holiday,” Mary mused, still rubbing her hands. “Haven’t had once since dad lost his job. We used to go to the seaside every year. Margate or Skegness.”
“嗯，我不介意休個假，”瑪麗沉思著，仍然擦著手。“自從爸爸失業以來就沒有度假過。我們以前每年都去海邊。馬格特或斯基根斯。”

“Ooh, I went to Cornwall last year,” Lily said, “It was lovely, we camped right near the beach.”
“哦，我去年去了康沃爾，”莉莉說，“那裡很美，我們就露營在海灘旁邊。”

“Camping again.” Sirius grumbled. “Don’t get Potter started…”
“又是露營。”天狼星嘟囔道。“別讓波特開始說了……”

“Evans, have I ever told you how much love camping?” James said, grinning madly from his position at the mantelpiece. He was fiddling with his golden snitch, tossing it from palm to palm, “It is one of my greatest pleasures in life.”
“埃文斯，我曾經告訴過你我多麼喜歡露營嗎？”詹姆斯說，從壁爐架上的位置瘋狂地笑著。他在玩弄他的金色飛賊，把它在手掌間擲來擲去，“這是我生活中最大的樂趣之一。”

“I’m talking about muggle camping, Potter,” Lily tutted, smoothing her skirt over her knees self-consciously, “In muggle tents – no fancy extension charms…”
“我說的是麻瓜露營，波特，”莉莉嘟囔道，自覺地把裙子抹平在膝蓋上，“在麻瓜帳篷裡——沒有華麗的擴展咒語……”

“Can’t be that different,” James replied, undeterred, “These two haven’t even been camping,” he nodded to Remus and Sirius.
“應該沒那麼不同，”詹姆斯回答道，毫不受阻，“這兩個人甚至都沒有露營過，”他對雷姆斯和天狼星點了點頭。

“We sort of did, over Christmas,” Remus said, throwing a daring glance at Sirius, who gave him a slow, conspiratorial smile.
“我們算是有過，聖誕節時，”雷姆斯說，向天狼星投去挑戰性的目光，天狼星給了他一個緩慢的陰謀微笑。

“Hey!” James said, suddenly, tossing the snitch high in the air, then reaching to snatch it back, “We should all go camping!”
“嘿！”詹姆斯突然說，將飛賊高高拋起，然後伸手去抓回來，“我們應該都去露營！”

“What?” Sirius said, sitting up.
“什麼？”天狼星說，坐直了身子。

“This summer!” James nodded, excited, “It’s our last summer before we all have to be grownups – and we’ll all be of age, we should do it!”
“這個夏天！”詹姆斯點頭，激動地說，“這是我們在成為成年人之前的最後一個夏天——而且我們都會成年，我們應該去！”

“All of us?” Marlene asked, eyeing Mary.
“我們所有人？”瑪琳問，瞄了一眼瑪麗。

“All of us,” James confirmed. “What’d you think, Evans?”
“我們所有人，”詹姆斯確認說。“你覺得怎麼樣，埃文斯？”

“Well…” Lily looked up at him, “Separate tents for boys and girls, right?”
“嗯……”莉莉抬頭看著他，“男孩和女孩要分開帳篷，對吧？”

“Pfft, you’re no fun.” Mary smirked. Lily kicked her from the floor, and continued,
“噗，你真沒趣。”瑪麗冷笑著。莉莉從地上踢了她一下，繼續說道，

“Ok, Potter – on one condition…”
“好吧，波特——有一個條件……”

“Anything!”
“任何事！”

“Muggle tents.”
“麻瓜帳篷。”

“Oh.”
“哦。”

 

 

Saturday 5th March 1977

If you are seventeen years of age, or will turn seventeen on or before the 31st of August 1977, you are eligible for a twelve-week course of Apparition Lessons from a Ministry of Magic Apparition instructor, beginning on Monday 4th April 1977.
如果你已經十七歲，或者在1977年8月31日之前將滿十七歲，你有資格參加一個由魔法部幻影移形講師授課的為期十二周的課程，將於1977年4月4日星期一開始。

Please sign below if you would like to participate.
如欲參加，請在下方簽名。

Cost: 12 Galleons.
費用：12加隆。

Remus stared up at the notice pinned to the Gryffindor notice board and sighed.
雷姆斯抬頭看著釘在格蘭芬多公告板上的通知，嘆了口氣。

“I’ll lend you the money,” Sirius said, at his shoulder.
“我會借錢給你，”天狼星在他肩膀上說。

“I’d rather you didn’t.”
“我希望你不要。”

“Remus, I’m ridiculously rich.”
“雷姆斯，我非常富有。”

“I’m quite aware of that.” He snapped, irritably. He looked at the board again. Remus had wanted to learn how to apparate for almost his entire time at Hogwarts. “Ok.” He nodded, “But I’ll pay you back. I really will.”
“我完全知道。”他不耐煩地說。他再次看了看公告板。雷姆斯在霍格華茲的幾乎整段時間裡都想學習幻影移形。“好吧。”他點了點頭，“但我會還你的。我真的會的。”

“I know,” Sirius nudged him with his hip, playfully. “You’re going to be making more money than any of us, one day, you big swot.”
“我知道，”天狼星用臀部輕輕撞了撞他，調皮地說，“總有一天你會賺比我們任何人都多的錢，你這個書呆子。”

“Ha.” Remus snorted. “Not likely, unless Dumbledore gets his act together.”
“哈。”雷姆斯嗤之以鼻。“不太可能，除非鄧不利多能振作起來。”

“Dumbledore? What’s he got to do with anything?”
“鄧不利多？他和這有什麼關係？”

Remus looked around, furtively. The common room wasn’t busy, but it wasn’t empty either.
雷姆斯四下張望，偷偷摸摸地。公共休息室不擁擠，但也不空曠。

“I can’t tell you here,” he said, “Upstairs?”
“我不能在這裡告訴你，”他說，“樓上？”

Sirius cocked his head, with a mock innocent expression that made Remus burst out laughing,
天狼星歪著頭，露出一副假裝無辜的表情，讓雷姆斯忍不住笑了出來，

“Not for that. Get your mind out of the gutter, Black.”
“不是那個。別想那些不正經的事，天狼星。”

They headed up to the bedroom. It was nice and quiet there – Peter was serving a detention somewhere with Filch and James was patrolling.
他們上了樓去到臥室。那裡安靜得很好——彼得在某處和費爾奇一起接受拘留，詹姆斯正在巡邏。

“So?” Sirius went straight for Remus’s bed, sitting cross-legged and alert, “What’s going on with Dumbledore?”
“那麼？”天狼星直奔雷姆斯的床，盤腿坐下，警覺地問道，“鄧不利多怎麼了？”

Remus sat down opposite him, not too close.
雷姆斯坐在他對面，保持著一定的距離。

“I… remember I had that dinner with Ferox? After I met Livia.”
“我……記得我和費羅克斯吃過晚餐？在我遇見莉維亞之後。”

“...yeah, of course.” Sirius sobered up at once. They hadn’t discussed it, since they’d made up.
“……是的，當然。”天狼星立刻變得嚴肅。他們自從和好後就沒有再討論這個問題。

“Ok, well don’t get angry with me, but… I sort of made some demands. On Dumbledore.”
“好吧，不要對我生氣，但……我有點提出了一些要求。對鄧不利多的要求。”

Sirius stared at him, blankly. Remus continued, with a hard swallow, “I told him that if they want me to help them, if they want me to be like an emissary to the werewolves, or whatever, then I wanted something in return. Protection, for the others in Greyback’s pack, first of all,”
天狼星呆呆地盯著他。雷姆斯吞了口唾沫，繼續說：“我告訴他，如果他們想讓我幫助他們，如果他們想讓我像一個使者一樣對待狼人，或者其他什麼，那麼我希望得到一些回報。首先是保護灰背狼群中的其他人。”

Sirius opened his mouth, then – apparently thinking better of it – closed it again, and waited. Remus carried on, watching him carefully for any sign of anger or disapproval, “And I’ve asked not to be forced to sign the register, on my birthday.”
天狼星張開嘴巴，然後——顯然覺得不妥——又關上了，等待著。雷姆斯繼續說，仔細觀察他的臉上是否有憤怒或不滿的跡象，“我還要求不要在我生日那天被迫簽名。”

“Well, that’s reasonable, at least,” Sirius breathed. “But, Moony… the other thing…”
“嗯，至少這是合理的，”天狼星喘了口氣。“但，莫妮……另一件事……”

“I know,” Remus nodded, “They’re murderers, some of them. I know that. But they’re… I don’t think they know any other way. I think that if we want to show them that there are other choices, better ways to live, then… that has to start with kindness.”
“我知道，”雷姆斯點了點頭，“他們是殺人犯，其中一些。我知道這一點。但他們……我不認為他們知道其他的生活方式。我認為如果我們想向他們展示其他的選擇，更好的生活方式，那麼……這必須從善意開始。”

“Kindness.” Sirius repeated.
“善意。”天狼星重複道。

“Not forgiveness,” Remus said, quickly, “I’m not saying they should go completely unpunished, but… I mean, you have to admit, the ministry has handled lycanthropy pretty poorly, so far. When we win this war, there’s a chance to make things better. For all wizards. Even half-breeds.”
“不是寬恕，”雷姆斯迅速說，“我不是說他們應該完全不受懲罰，但……我的意思是，你必須承認，到目前為止，魔法部對待狼人症的方式非常糟糕。當我們贏得這場戰爭時，有機會改善現狀。對所有巫師來說。甚至是混血種。”

Sirius was looking back at him, his brow very slightly furrowed. His deep blue eyes focussed intensely, as if he was searching for something in Remus’s face. Then he gave a slight nod.
天狼星看著他，眉頭微微皺起。他那深藍色的眼睛專注地凝視著，就像在尋找雷姆斯臉上的某些東西。然後他微微點了點頭。

“This is really important to you, isn’t it?”
“這對你來說真的很重要，是不是？”

“Yes.” Remus said, without missing a beat.
“是的。”雷姆斯說，毫不猶豫。

“You’ll have to convince a lot of people.”
“你得說服很多人。”

Remus nodded.
雷姆斯點了點頭。

“I know.”
“我知道。”

“We’ll help you, though.” Sirius said, not breaking eye contact. “Me and Peter and James – Evans too, probably, that girl worships you.”
“我們會幫助你的。”天狼星說，沒有打破眼神交流。“我、彼得和詹姆斯——還有埃文斯，可能，那女孩崇拜你。”

“I couldn’t ask--”
“我不能要求——”

“You don’t need to,” Sirius shook his head. He leaned forward and kissed Remus so, so gently on the lips, barely a whisper. “Anything for our Moony.”
“你不需要，”天狼星搖了搖頭。他向前傾身，輕輕地吻了雷姆斯的嘴唇，幾乎是耳語般的親吻。“為我們的莫妮做任何事。”

Later that day, Remus was on his way to Flitwick’s classroom – the kindly Charms professor had allowed him to use it for his tutoring sessions, provided everything was tidied up afterwards. He had a map of the south coast in his bag, and was hoping to get there early enough to have the chance to study it. If they were all going on holiday that summer, then someone was going to have to organise it.
當天稍晚，雷姆斯正前往弗立維教授的教室——那位和藹的咒語教授允許他使用教室進行輔導，只要一切在之後整理好。他的包裡有一張南海岸的地圖，希望能夠早點到達，爭取時間研究它。如果他們這個夏天都去度假，那麼就需要有人來組織這件事。

The first full moon of the summer would fall on the first of July, and Remus was hoping to stay one extra night at Hogwarts for that. He had already asked James if he could stay with the Potters for the following week, and James, of course, had eagerly agreed. Then they would have the camping trip, and then… Remus didn’t have a clue what his next move would be. Back to Mile End, maybe; if Grant was still there. He couldn’t just stay at the Potters forever; not once he was seventeen.
夏天的第一次滿月會落在七月一日，雷姆斯希望能在霍格華茲多待一晚。他已經問過詹姆斯是否可以在接下來的一周住在波特家，詹姆斯當然欣然同意。然後他們將去露營旅行，然後……雷姆斯不知道自己的下一步會是什麼。也許回到邁爾恩德；如果格蘭特還在那裡。他不能永遠待在波特家；十七歲以後就不行了。

“Hiya Remus!” Christopher waved, already waiting outside the classroom. Remus’s heart sank, slightly. Of course Christopher was early. He never missed a chance to catch Remus alone.
“嗨，雷姆斯！”克里斯多夫揮手，已經在教室外面等著了。雷姆斯的心情稍微沉了下來。當然，克里斯多夫早到了。他從不會錯過單獨抓住雷姆斯的機會。

“Morning, Chris,” he smiled, politely. “Shall we go in?”
“早安，克里斯，”他禮貌地微笑著。“我們進去吧？”

They charmed the desks into a horseshoe shape, so that there would be plenty of room for practical demonstrations, then settled down, pulling out their books.
他們將桌子施了魔法，變成馬蹄形，這樣就有足夠的空間進行實踐演示，然後坐下來，拿出書籍。

“What are you doing after?” Christopher asked, over keen.
“你之後要做什麼？”克里斯多夫過於熱切地問道。

“Dinner.” Remus said, mildly, smoothing down his map and locating Cornwall. “Then detention, I’m afraid. ‘til late.” It was a full moon – though he’d be in detention even if it wasn’t. McGonagall never went back on a punishment.
“晚餐。”雷姆斯輕描淡寫地說，抹平他的地圖，找到康沃爾。“然後是拘留，我恐怕要待到很晚。”那天是滿月——即使不是，他也會被拘留。麥格教授從不會撤回懲罰。

“That’s a shame,” Christopher sighed, “You’re always in detention these days.”
“那真可惜，”克里斯多夫嘆了口氣，“你最近總是被拘留。”

“Yep,” Remus laughed, “I’m a no-good yob.”
“是的，”雷姆斯笑著說，“我是一個無用的混混。”

Christopher laughed, awkwardly. He meant well enough, but Remus had the impression that he was rarely comfortable with marauder style humour. It took getting used to.
克里斯多夫尷尬地笑了。他的好意很好，但雷姆斯覺得他很少能適應潑辣的幽默。這需要時間適應。

“Have you read this?” Christopher pushed a book across the desk, covering up the beach Remus had been inspecting. He sighed and looked at it. The Charioteer.
“你讀過這本書嗎？”克里斯多夫把一本書推到桌子上，遮住了雷姆斯剛才查看的海灘。他嘆了口氣，看了看它。《戰車手》。

“Nope,” Remus shook his head, picking it up and reading the blurb.
“沒有，”雷姆斯搖了搖頭，拿起書來閱讀封面介紹。

After an injury at Dunkirk, Laurie Odell is sent to a veterans' hospital to convalesce. There he befriends Andrew, a conscientious objector serving as an orderly. But when Ralph, a mentor from his school days, reappears in his life, Laurie is forced to choose between the sweet ideals of innocence and the distinct pleasures of experience.
在敦刻爾克受傷後，勞瑞·奧德爾被送到一個退伍軍人醫院康復。在那裡，他與安德魯——一名擔任醫務兵的良心拒絕者——成為朋友。然而，當他的學校時代的導師拉爾夫重新出現時，勞瑞被迫在純真的甜美理想和經驗的明確快感之間做出選擇。

“Oh,” Remus thought. It’s that sort of book.
“哦，”雷姆斯心想。原來是那種書。

“It’s a muggle book,” Christopher explained, excitedly, “It’s really good. You can borrow it, I’d love to know what you think!”
“這是一本麻瓜書，”克里斯多夫興奮地解釋道，“真的很好。你可以借來看，我很想知道你的看法！”

“Yeah, I’ll give it a go, cheers.” Remus nodded, quickly hiding it in the bottom of his bag before anyone else came in.
“好吧，我會試試看的，謝謝。”雷姆斯點了點頭，迅速將它藏在包底下，免得其他人進來。

At that moment, there was a knock at the door. Both boys turned around to see Emmeline Vance poke her head around the door. She was an immensely beautiful girl, with a tumble of golden curls and large apple green eyes. Another Ravenclaw, she was a seventh year too, and had previously gone out with Roman Rotherhide himself. She smiled, stepping in,
這時，門被敲了敲。兩個男孩轉過身來，只見艾梅琳·萬斯探頭進來。她是一位非常美麗的女孩，有著一頭金色的卷髮和一雙大大的蘋果綠眼睛。她也是一名七年級的拉文克勳，曾經和羅曼·羅瑟哈德約會過。她笑著走了進來，

“Hello, Remus,” she said, in her soft, girlish voice. He tried to be polite back, but he knew he sounded cold.
“你好，雷姆斯，”她用柔和的女孩聲音說。他試著禮貌地回應，但知道自己聽起來有些冷淡。

“Hello Emmeline. I didn’t expect you.”
“你好，艾梅琳。我沒想到你會來。”

“Oh, no, I’m not here for your little study club thing,” she smiled again, scrunching up her nose in a way that might have seemed cute or endearing to anyone but Remus and Christopher. “I was hoping Sirius would be here.”
“哦，不，我不是來參加你的學習小組的，”她再次微笑，皺起鼻子，這對任何人來說都可能顯得可愛或迷人，只是對雷姆斯和克里斯多夫來說不然。“我希望天狼星在這裡。”

“He isn’t.”
“他不在。”

“No, I see that!” She laughed, throatily, sweeping her hair over one shoulder. “But he said he’d meet me in the Astronomy tower half an hour ago…”
“哦，我知道！”她輕笑著，將頭髮撩到一邊。“但他說半小時前會在天文塔見我……”

Remus just shrugged at her, face blank. She tutted. “Well, if you see him, will you tell him to meet me tonight, after curfew?”
雷姆斯只是對她耸耸肩，面無表情。她噓了一聲。“如果你見到他，能告訴他今晚，宵禁後，來見我嗎？”

“He’s busy tonight.”
“他今晚很忙。”

“Doing what?! Ugh, he’s not seeing that MacDonald girl again, is he?”
“做什麼？！唉，他是不是又去見那個麥當勞女孩了？”

“You never know with Sirius,” Remus said, cruelly, trying not to smirk.
“你永遠不知道天狼星在幹什麼，”雷姆斯冷酷地說，試圖不露出笑意。

“Well. You tell him that if he’s not careful he’s going to lose me!”
“好吧。你告訴他，如果他不小心，他會失去我！”

“Oh, I definitely will.”
“哦，我一定會告訴他的。”

She closed the door, and Remus snorted, shaking his head.
她關上門，雷姆斯哼了一聲，搖了搖頭。

“Do you actually know where he is?” Christopher asked, with a small frown.
“你真的知道他在哪裡嗎？”克里斯多夫小皺著眉問。

“Nah,” Remus replied, “But I could guess. He’s probably with James somewhere.”
“嗯，”雷姆斯回答，“但我可以猜猜。他可能在某個地方和詹姆斯一起。”

“Those two.” Christopher sighed, “They’re funny, sometimes, but they cause so much trouble. How on earth Potter managed to end up a prefect I have no idea. And Black, he’s just…”
“那兩個。”克里斯多夫嘆了口氣，“他們有時候很有趣，但也帶來了很多麻煩。我真不知道波特是怎麼成為級長的。而天狼星，他只是……”

“He’s just what?!” Remus said, sharply.
“他只是什麼？！”雷姆斯尖銳地問道。

Christopher blinked, startled.
克里斯多夫眨了眨眼，驚訝地看著他。

“I know he’s your friend! Sorry, I just meant… he’s an arrogant tosser sometimes.”
“我知道他是你的朋友！對不起，我只是想說……他有時候是個傲慢的傢伙。”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, loosening up. He thought about Sirius’s promise, made little more than an hour ago on Remus’s bed. If other people couldn’t see that Sirius, then it was their loss. Who were Emmeline and Christopher in the grand scheme of things?
“是的，”雷姆斯點了點頭，放鬆了些。他想起了天狼星在雷姆斯床上許下的承諾。如果其他人看不到那個天狼星，那是他們的損失。在宏觀的格局中，艾梅琳和克里斯多夫算什麼？

Not marauders; not important.
不是麻瓜，不重要。

“You’re not wrong." Remus shrugged. "Right, where do you want to start?”
“你說得沒錯。”雷姆斯耸了耸肩。“好了，你想從哪裡開始？”

 

Chapter 110: Sixth Year: Seventeen 

Thursday 10th March 1977

1977年3月10日，星期四

“HAPPY BIRTHDAY, REMU!”

“生日快樂，雷姆！”

Three gangly, noisy, highly excitable teenage boys jumped onto Remus’s bed at the crack of dawn. It was not the same as when they were eleven. For one thing, Remus’s legs were a lot longer; for another, they were all much heavier.

黎明時分，三個瘦高、吵鬧、非常興奮的少年跳上了雷姆斯的床。這與他們十一歲時不同。首先，雷姆斯的腿長了很多；其次，他們都重了很多。

“Gerroff you wankers,” Remus grumbled, “What time is it?”

“你們這些混蛋滾開，”雷姆斯咕噥道，“現在幾點了？”

“Time is immaterial,” James said, wearing a brightly coloured pointed party hat, “It’s your birthday.”

“時間不重要，”詹姆斯戴著一頂色彩鮮艷的尖頂派對帽說道，“今天是你的生日。”

“Your seventeenth birthday!” Sirius added, wearing a polka dot party hat at a rakish angle on his head.

“你的十七歲生日！”天狼星補充道，他戴著一頂斜斜的波點派對帽。

“You’re of age!” Peter said, lunging at Remus with a fourth hat, snapping the elastic under his chin.

“你成年了！”彼得說著，猛撲向雷姆斯，給他戴上第四頂帽子，彈性帶卡在下巴下。

Remus glared at them all, stony faced.

雷姆斯怒視著他們，面無表情。

“You’re going to make me wear this all day, aren’t you?”

“你們打算讓我戴這個一整天，是嗎？”

They nodded, all three, in perfect unison, the streamers on their conical headwear bobbing and flashing in the dull morning light.

他們三個齊刷刷地點頭，錐形帽上的彩帶在昏暗的晨光中搖曳閃爍。

“It’s impervious to water,” Sirius explained cheerfully, “So you can even shower with it on.” He winked, and Remus hoped he wasn’t blushing. Sirius had been in his bed only hours before, for a very different reason, and Remus was finding the quick transitions harder and harder to deal with.

“它防水，”天狼星快活地解釋道，“所以你甚至可以戴著它洗澡。”他眨了眨眼，雷姆斯希望自己沒有臉紅。天狼星幾個小時前還在他的床上，出於完全不同的原因，而雷姆斯發現這種快速轉換越來越難以應付。

Only half an hour later, and Remus had showered (hat still firmly on his head), opened about fifty birthday cards wishing him many happy returns (“I didn’t think I knew fifty people!”) and eaten a generous slice of Mrs Potter’s chocolate cake.

僅僅半小時後，雷姆斯就洗完了澡（帽子依然牢牢戴在頭上），打開了大約五十張生日賀卡，祝他幸福多多（“我都沒想到我認識五十個人！”），並吃了一大塊波特夫人的巧克力蛋糕。

“And you’ll get your proper present later,” James said, cryptically, “At the party.”

“你會在晚些時候得到你的正式禮物，”詹姆斯神秘地說，“在派對上。”

“You lot are mad,” Remus said, as they filed down into the common room, “You shouldn’t go to all this trouble.”

“你們這些人真瘋了，”雷姆斯說，當他們排隊走進休息室時，“你們不應該這麼費心。”

“Shut up, Moony.” Peter said, good naturedly.

“閉嘴，莫妮。”彼得善意地說。

“Happy birthday Remus!” The girls chorused in the dining hall. They were all wearing party hats too, apparently thanks to Lily’s persuasiveness.

“生日快樂，雷姆斯！”女孩們在餐廳裡齊聲說道。她們也都戴著派對帽，顯然是由於莉莉的說服力。

“Nice one, Evans,” James winked at her, giving her a sly nod with his elbow, “New you wouldn’t let the side down.”

“幹得好，埃文斯，”詹姆斯向她眨了眨眼，用肘部狡黠地點了點頭，“知道你不會讓我們失望。”

“Oh, bugger off, Potter,” she elbowed him back, looking very pleased and a bit flushed.

“哦，滾開，波特，”她用肘部回擊他，看起來很高興，有點臉紅。

The usual three round rendition of ‘Happy Birthday’ accompanied Remus’s birthday breakfast, and he was so used to it by now that he even stood up and gave a shy bow once they’d finally finished. Then the owls arrived.

三輪慣例的《生日快樂》伴隨著雷姆斯的生日早餐，他現在已經習慣了，甚至在他們最終唱完後站起來害羞地鞠了一躬。然後貓頭鷹們到了。

There was a card from Ferox, which was unexpected - Remus hadn’t been sure if they were still on speaking terms after their last meeting. There was also a note from Dumbledore.

有一張來自Ferox的賀卡，這很意外——雷姆斯不確定他們在上次見面後是否還能說上話。還有一張來自鄧布利多的便條。

He cracked the cherry red seal quickly under the table, and read it as fast as possible.

他迅速在桌下打開鮮紅色的封印，盡快讀了起來。

 

Mr Lupin,

盧平先生，

Many happy returns for the day.

祝你今天幸福多多。

I understand we have a few things to discuss. Please present yourself at the headmaster’s office at 4pm this afternoon.

我知道我們有幾件事要討論。請在今天下午四點到校長辦公室。

Sincerely,

此致

Albus Dumbledore.

阿不思·鄧布利多

 

 

“Here we go.” He sighed, under his breath. Sirius, who had an annoying habit of reading over his shoulder, leaned in,

“來了。”他低聲嘆道。天狼星有個惹人厭的習慣，就是在他肩膀上讀信，這時也靠了過來，

“Do you want someone to go with you?”

“你想要有人陪你去嗎？”

Remus shook his head, but smiled at Sirius, trying to be kind,

雷姆斯搖了搖頭，但對天狼星笑了笑，試圖友善一些，

“Nah. Thanks for offering, but I think it’s better if I do it alone.”

“不用了。謝謝你的提議，但我覺得我一個人去更好。”

Sirius nodded, looking troubled all the same.

天狼星點了點頭，依然顯得有些擔心。

The day passed slowly, the meeting with Dumbledore lurking at the end of it like some malevolent spider. Remus tried imagining the scenario over in his head – coming up with a script, or at least something coherent to say in defence of his wild demands. Nothing came to him, and at 3.45pm that afternoon he found himself walking to the headmaster's office very slowly indeed.

這一天過得很慢，與鄧布利多的會面像一隻惡毒的蜘蛛一樣潛伏在一天的結尾。雷姆斯試圖在腦海中想像那個場景——編寫一個劇本，或者至少說出一些連貫的話來為他的狂野要求辯護。但什麼也沒想到，當天下午3:45，他發現自己確實非常緩慢地走向校長辦公室。

He’d been mad to even suggest this in the first place. No one else needed as reason to help in the war effort – James would never do it. But then, Remus supposed, there was nothing James wanted that Dumbledore could give him. Unless Dumbledore held the key to Lily Evans’s undying love.

他當初提出這個建議真是瘋了。沒有人需要這個理由來幫助戰爭努力——詹姆斯永遠不會這樣做。但雷姆斯想，鄧布利多沒有什麼可以給詹姆斯的東西。除非鄧布利多掌握了莉莉·埃文斯不朽愛情的鑰匙。

He found the staircase already open, and ascended just as slowly, remembering only at the very last minute to rip the party hat from his head.

他發現樓梯已經開了，於是也同樣緩慢地上去，直到最後一刻才想起把派對帽從頭上摘下來。

“Good afternoon, Mr Lupin. Happy birthday.”

“下午好，盧平先生。生日快樂。”

Dumbledore was sitting at his desk, as usual. This time he wasn’t writing letters; he was waiting patiently, a benign smile on his face.

鄧布利多像往常一樣坐在他的桌子旁。這次他沒有寫信；他耐心地等待著，臉上帶著仁慈的微笑。

“Thanks,” Remus replied, warily, sitting down in the chair opposite. He thought for a moment before saying, “D’you mind just calling me Remus?”

“謝謝，”雷姆斯警惕地回答，坐在對面的椅子上。他想了一會兒，然後說：“你介意只叫我雷姆斯嗎？”

“As you wish,” Dumbledore nodded. He seemed to be in good humour. “How does it feel, coming of age?”

“如你所願，”鄧布利多點了點頭。他似乎心情很好。“成年感覺如何？”

“It’s ok.”

“還好。”

“I have a few things for you, sent on to me from Mrs Orwell.”

“我有一些東西要給你，奧威爾夫人寄給我的。”

“Matron?!”

“護士長？！”

“Indeed.” Dumbledore gestured at a shoebox, which seemed to have appeared on the large mahogany desk out on thin air. “I believe there are a few items in there which belong to you, which were held in trust at St Edmund’s.”

“的確。”鄧布利多指著一個鞋盒，它似乎憑空出現在大紅木桌上。“我相信裡面有幾件屬於你的東西，這些東西在聖埃德蒙德托管。”

“Oh, wow…” Remus touched the lid of the box, tentatively, but didn’t open it. He wanted to be alone for that.

“哦，哇……”雷姆斯試探性地觸摸著盒子的蓋子，但沒有打開。他想一個人看。

“There is also that matter of your inheritance.”

“還有你的遺產問題。”

“My what?!”

“我的什麼？！”

“Your father left a will. He left some provisions for your mother, and the rest to you. He was not a wealthy man, I should say, but nevertheless, his vault in Gringott’s now belongs to you.” Dumbledore pulled a key from his pocket and passed it across the desk.

“你父親留下了遺囑。他為你的母親留下了一些物資，剩下的給你。他不是一個富有的人，我應該說，但無論如何，他在古靈閣的金庫現在屬於你。”鄧布利多從口袋裡掏出一把鑰匙，遞過桌子。

Remus held it in his hand, and thought about Lyall – who had not been on his mind in some months.

雷姆斯把它握在手中，想起了萊爾——他已經有幾個月沒想到他了。

“Thank you.” He said, remembering his manners.

“謝謝。”他說，記起了禮貌。

“And there are other legal matters, as well you know.” Dumbledore clasped his hands in front of him, long slender fingers intertwined. He was waiting for a response.

“還有其他法律問題，你也知道的。”鄧布利多把雙手握在胸前，細長的手指交叉。他在等待回應。

“The register.” Remus said.

“登記簿。”雷姆斯說。

“The register.” The headmaster agreed. He pulled out a piece of parchment and pushed that across the desk too. It was a form.

“登記簿。”校長同意。他抽出一張羊皮紙，也推過桌子。那是一張表格。

 

Ministry of Magic: Declaration of Lycanthropic Infection.

魔法部：狼人的感染聲明。

 

Remus felt queasy. There was a dotted line at the bottom, awaiting his signature. He sat on his hands and looked at Dumbledore.

雷姆斯感到噁心。底部有一條虛線，等待他的簽名。他坐在手上，看著鄧布利多。

“What do you want me to do with it?”

“你想讓我怎麼處理這個？”

“Leo Ferox led me to believe that you already had a very good idea of what to do with it, Remus.” The old man replied, his eyes serious. “You are an adult, I leave it in your hands.”

“Leo Ferox讓我相信你已經有很好的想法如何處理它，雷姆斯。”老人回答，眼神嚴肅。“你已經是個成年人了，我把它交到你手裡。”

Remus picked up the parchment immediately, held it up to eye level and tore it clean in two. Dumbledore smiled again. “Admirably done.”

雷姆斯立刻拿起羊皮紙，舉到眼前，撕成兩半。鄧布利多再次微笑。“做得很好。”

“Ferox told you something else, though.” Remus said, trying to maintain eye contact but finding it extremely difficult. Dumbledore was not like anyone else - he smelled just as strongly of magic as every other witch or wizard, but nothing else. He had no unique signifier at all.

“但是Ferox還告訴了你其他事情。”雷姆斯說，試圖保持眼神接觸，但發現極其困難。鄧布利多不像其他人——他和其他巫師一樣散發著強烈的魔法氣息，但除此之外什麼也沒有。他根本沒有任何獨特的標誌。

“He did. I think, perhaps, you can anticipate my response.”

“他確實告訴我了。我想，也許你能預料到我的回應。”

Remus felt something deflate inside of him, making room for the coming rage.

雷姆斯感覺內心有什麼東西泄氣了，為即將到來的憤怒騰出空間。

“So it’s a no.” He said, flatly.

“所以是拒絕。”他平淡地說。

Dumbledore inclined his head, gently,

鄧布利多輕輕地點了點頭，

“Not entirely. A request for patience, perhaps.”

“不完全是。也許是要求耐心。”

“With respect,” Remus heard the hardness in his own voice, and it surprised him, but made him braver, “There isn’t time for patience.”

“恕我直言，”雷姆斯聽到了自己聲音中的硬度，這讓他感到驚訝，但也讓他更勇敢，“沒有時間耐心等待。”

“There never is, when one is young.” Dumbledore replied, softly. “Remus, I know how things must seem to you, believe me.”

“年輕時從來沒有時間。”鄧布利多輕聲回應。“雷姆斯，我知道事情在你眼裡是什麼樣的，相信我。”

“You didn’t see her. They’re suffering. Right now.”

“你沒見過她。他們正在受苦。現在就受苦。”

“Many people are suffering, Remus. You have spent precious little time in the wizarding world yet-“

“很多人都在受苦，雷姆斯。你在巫師界花的時間還很少——”

“Whose fault is that?!” Remus muttered fiercely. Dumbledore gave him a silencing glance,

“那是誰的錯？！”雷姆斯狠狠地喃喃道。鄧布利多給了他一個沉默的眼神，

“But once you have, you will see, you will understand why attitudes are a very long way from changing. What you are asking—”

“但一旦你有了，你會明白，為什麼態度很難改變。你要求的是——”

“What about what YOU’RE asking?!” Remus shouted, incandescent, “Of Ferox, and Moody and the Potters and---”

“那你要求的是什麼？！”雷姆斯憤怒地喊道，“Ferox、穆迪和波特家以及——”

“I am asking for an enormous leap of faith!” Dumbledore said very loudly – he didn’t shout; you couldn’t call it shouting at all – but it was no longer kind. “From many people. And I will keep asking until the war is won. That must be our focus, for now.”

“我要求的是一個巨大的信任飛躍！”鄧布利多非常大聲地說——他沒有喊叫；你不能稱之為喊叫——但它不再是友善的。“來自許多人的。我會一直要求，直到戰爭勝利。這必須是我們目前的重點。”

“I want to win the war,” Remus said, still trying to control his volume, “As much as anyone. But I want something worth winning, too.”

“我想贏得戰爭，”雷姆斯說，仍試圖控制音量，“像任何人一樣。但我也想要值得贏得的東西。”

“In time. When we have the resources. When we have the strength to fight another battle.”

“時機到了。我們有資源的時候。我們有力量去打另一場戰爭的時候。”

“I want a promise.”

“我想要一個承諾。”

“I’m aware of that.” Dumbledore said, his voice changing almost imperceptibly, a deep frown lining his forehead. “I cannot give you one.”

“我知道。”鄧布利多說，他的聲音幾乎察覺不到地變化了，額頭上出現了深深的皺紋。“我不能給你一個。”

“Fine.” Remus stood. “Then I’m promising you. I’m not giving up.”

“好吧。”雷姆斯站起來。“那我向你保證。我不會放棄。”

He was furious, and Dumbledore had the gall to smile at him.

他非常生氣，而鄧布利多還敢對他微笑。

“I would expect no less from Lyall Lupin’s son.”

“我對萊爾·盧平的兒子期望不會更低。”

Remus wanted to scream fuck you, but decided that as he’d already been disowned from one institution today, it was probably best to avoid any risk on expulsion. He grabbed the shoebox, turned and marched out.

雷姆斯想要大喊你去死，但決定既然他今天已經被一個機構拋棄了，最好避免任何被開除的風險。他抓起鞋盒，轉身走了出去。

Remus was practically blind with rage as he pelted down the spiral staircase from Dumbledore’s office, shoebox under his arm, head bowed, so that he ran straight into Sirius waiting at the bottom.

雷姆斯幾乎被憤怒弄得失明了，他抱著鞋盒，低著頭，從鄧布利多的辦公室衝下螺旋樓梯，直接撞上了在樓下等待的天狼星。

Woah!” Sirius said, pushing both hands against Remus’s chest in an attempt to slow him down, “What’s up, Moony?”

“哇！”天狼星說，雙手按在雷姆斯的胸口，試圖讓他慢下來，“怎麼了，月亮臉？”

“What are you doing here?” Remus snarled.

“你在這裡做什麼？”雷姆斯咆哮道。

“Just waiting for you – I know you didn’t want company, I just thought--”

“只是等你——我知道你不想要陪伴，我只是想——”

“You never bloody listen!” Remus ranted, pushing past. Sirius grabbed his arm and wouldn’t let go, allowing Remus to half drag him along the corridor,

“你從來不聽！”雷姆斯咆哮著推開他。天狼星抓住他的手臂，不肯放手，讓雷姆斯半拖著他走過走廊，

“I know, I’m terrible,” he was saying, jogging slightly to keep up with Remus’s longer strides, “Never do as I’m told, do I? Keep shouting at me, I deserve it – hey, want to hit me?”

“我知道，我很糟糕，”他說，稍微小跑以跟上雷姆斯的長步，“從來不聽話，是吧？繼續對我大喊，我應得的——嘿，想打我嗎？”

Remus stopped and looked at him, the mercurial grin on his face. That Sirius Black grin.

雷姆斯停下來看著他，臉上掛著那種狡猾的笑容。那是天狼星·布萊克的笑容。

“No. I don’t want to hit you.”

“不。我不想打你。”

“Oh good. Want to punch a wall?”

“哦，好吧。想打牆嗎？”

“No.” Remus carried on walking, a bit slower.

“不。”雷姆斯繼續走，有點慢下來。

“Want to get stoned?”

“想吸毒嗎？”

“No.”

“不。”

“Drunk?”

“喝醉嗎？”

“...Maybe.”

“……也許。”

“Perfect!” Sirius said. they were now walking at a regular pace, towards the dining hall, “Because I think that’s what half the school has in mind after dinner. What’s in the box?”

“完美！”天狼星說。他們現在以正常的步伐朝餐廳走去，“因為我覺得這是晚餐後學校一半人想做的事情。盒子裡是什麼？”

“It’s…” Remus held it on both hands, now. It wasn’t very heavy, there couldn’t be much. He could feel leaves of paper sliding around inside. “Just some stuff, I think my dad left to me. I’m not opening it until later.”

“這是……”雷姆斯現在用雙手拿著它。它不是很重，裡面不會有很多東西。他能感覺到裡面的紙張在滑動。“只是一些東西，我想我父親留給我的。我不會現在打開。”

Sirius shrugged, easily,

天狼星輕鬆地聳了聳肩，

“Fair enough.”

“好吧。”

 

 

Sirius’s general loveliness continued through dinner – sausages and mash with onion gravy – until dessert, when Emmeline appeared. Remus had been halfway to a good mood when she showed up at their table and squeezed herself onto Sirius’s lap. She kissed him, full on the mouth, for a long time.
天狼星的迷人一直持續到晚餐——香腸配土豆泥和洋蔥肉汁——直到甜點時，艾梅琳出現。當她出現在他們的餐桌上並擠到天狼星的膝蓋上時，雷木斯原本快要開心起來了。她長時間地吻了他，完全吻在嘴上。

“Happy birthday, Remus,” she smiled politely, once they had finished.
“生日快樂，雷木斯，”她禮貌地微笑著說，當他們結束時。

He nodded in response, and set down his spoon. She didn’t seem to notice. “I’m so excited about the party.” She said, generally, to the table.
他點頭回應，放下了勺子。她似乎沒注意到。“我對這個派對感到很興奮。”她一般地對著桌子說。

“Should be good,” James said, jovially, “Moony’s birthdays always are.”
“應該會很好，”詹姆說，興高采烈地，“月亮臉的生日總是這樣。”

“Why does everyone call you Moony, anyway?” Emmeline asked, looking at Remus. He scowled at her,
“為什麼每個人都叫你月亮臉呢？”艾梅琳問，望著雷木斯。他對她皺起了眉頭，

“Not everyone. Just my friends.”
“不是每個人。只有我的朋友們。”

She blinked, and frowned, the creases in her brow marring her beauty only momentarily. Sirius squeezed her waist,
她眨了眨眼，皺起了眉頭，眉頭的皺紋只短暫地破壞了她的美貌。天狼星擠了擠她的腰，

“Hey, Em, why don’t I meet you later? We’ve got some stuff to do to get ready.”
“嘿，艾梅，為什麼不等會見面呢？我們有些事情要準備。”

“Ok,” She smiled again, “Remember your promise…” she snogged him again.
“好吧，”她再次微笑，“記住你的承諾...” 她又吻了他。

“Promise?” Remus asked, upstairs in their bedroom, fifteen minutes later. James and Peter were overseeing the decorations in the common room, and Sirius had made up some excuse for not helping. “What did you promise her?”
“承諾？”雷木斯問，十五分鐘後，在他們的臥室裡。詹姆和彼得正在監督公共休息室的裝飾，而天狼星編了一個藉口不去幫忙。“你答應了她什麼？”

“Oh, just that I’d walk her back to her common room after the party.”
“哦，只是我答應派對後送她回她的休息室。”

Remus raised an eyebrow,
雷木斯揚起了一邊眉毛，

“Via the Astronomy Tower?”
“經過天文塔？”

Sirius laughed, unbuttoning his shirt to change,
天狼星笑了，解開襯衫的扣子準備換衣服，

“Maybe. Why?”
“也許。怎麼了？”

“Nothing.” Remus sat on his bed. The shoebox was still unopened, on his bedside table. He wasn’t going to look today. Maybe not even tomorrow.
“沒什麼。”雷木斯坐在他的床上。那個鞋盒還沒打開，放在他的床頭櫃上。他今天不打算看，可能明天也不會。

“What about you and Mary?” Sirius asked, selecting a clean black shirt from his messy chest of drawers, “That thing finished now, or what?”
“那你和瑪麗呢？”天狼星問，從亂七八糟的抽屜裡挑了一件乾淨的黑襯衫，“那件事結束了嗎，還是怎麼樣？”

“Yeah.” Remus nodded, watching him. This is it, he thought, this is when you tell him. “It was just an experiment, sort of. …Do you know what I mean?”
“是的。”雷木斯點點頭，看著他。就是現在，他想，就是現在你該告訴他了。“這只是一個實驗，類似於這樣的…你知道我的意思嗎？”

“Hm?” Sirius murmured, more focussed on buttoning up his shirt. “What, wasn’t good?”
“嗯？”天狼星喃喃道，更專注於扣好他的襯衫。“什麼，不好嗎？”

“It was ok. Not as good as…” he swallowed, and said it fast, “Not as good as when it’s just you and me.”
“還好。不如…”他吞了吞口水，快速說道，“不如只有你和我時那麼好。”

Sirius looked up from his buttons, staring at Remus across the room. Remus was grateful for the distance. Sirius’s expression was hard to read, so Remus pressed on. “Is it like that for you?”
天狼星從扣子上抬起頭來，隔著房間盯著雷木斯。雷木斯感謝這段距離。天狼星的表情難以捉摸，所以雷木斯繼續說：“對你來說也是這樣嗎？”

Sirius returned to his dresser, looking for jeans now. His back turned, he said quietly.
天狼星回到他的梳妝台，現在在找牛仔褲。他背對著，輕聲說，

“Yeah.”
“是的。”

“Pardon?” Remus said, raising his voice.
“什麼？”雷木斯提高了聲音說。

Sirius sighed, but didn’t turn around. He closed the drawer, apparently deciding that the jeans he had on would do.
天狼星嘆了口氣，但沒有轉身。他關上抽屜，顯然覺得他穿的牛仔褲可以了。

“I said yeah. It’s better with you.”
“我說是的。和你在一起更好。”

“Right.” Remus was so surprised by this response that he couldn’t think of anything else to say. Unfortunately, this gave Sirius an opportunity to speak instead. He turned, sweeping his long hair back over his head, casually.
“對。”雷木斯對這個回答感到非常驚訝，以至於他無話可說。不幸的是，這給了天狼星說話的機會。他轉過身，隨意地把長髮往後撥。

“I s’pose because we know each other so well, eh? Right, I’d better get down there and help before Prongs comes after me with a jelly-legs jinx! We’ll send Peter to get you when it’s all ready.”
“我想是因為我們彼此了解得很好，對吧？好吧，我最好下去幫忙，免得叉子用軟腿咒來找我！等一切準備好後，我們會派彼得來找你。”

With that, Sirius disappeared down the stairs.
說完這句話，天狼星就消失在樓梯下。

 

Four hours later, and Remus was well and truly drunk. Not drunk, pissed. Bladdered. Trollied. Paralytic. He couldn’t remember how much he’d had, and he didn’t care. He was going to have a good time if it killed him. Fuck Dumbledore. Fuck Greyback, Ferox, Livia, Emmeline and Sirius fucking Black. The party was in full swing, everyone now wearing a shiny pointy birthday hat, bopping along to the blaring music. Remus hadn’t even minded the disco tracks.
四個小時後，雷木斯已經真正醉了。不是一般的醉，是爛醉。喝得東倒西歪，醉得一塌糊塗，麻痺了。他不記得自己喝了多少，也不在乎。如果這會讓他快樂，他就要盡情享受。去他的鄧布利多，去他的灰背，弗羅克斯，莉維亞，艾梅琳和天狼星該死的布萊克。派對進行得如火如荼，每個人都戴著閃亮尖尖的生日帽，隨著震耳欲聾的音樂跳動。雷木斯甚至不介意迪斯科音樂。

He staggered to his arm chair and sank into it with yet another bottle of something lovely and strong. He was feeling very warm and very sleepy. Lazily, he allowed his gaze to wander to Sirius, chattering by the turntable, hips slouched forward just so. Remus let himself stare for just a little bit. He was entitled. Their first kiss was exactly a year ago. It was a silly little anniversary, considering everything that had happened in between, but Remus felt a small purr of satisfaction all the same. Fucking prick.
他踉蹌地走到扶手椅旁，拿著另一瓶美味而濃烈的飲料沉入其中。他感到非常溫暖和困倦。懶洋洋地，他讓目光遊移到天狼星身上，天狼星在唱盤旁喋喋不休，臀部向前傾斜。雷木斯讓自己盯著看了一會兒。他有這個權利。他們的第一次接吻恰好是一年前。考慮到這期間發生的一切，這是一個愚蠢的小紀念日，但雷木斯還是感到一絲滿意。該死的混蛋。

“Him and Emmeline have been together a while now.” Lily said to Remus, coming to sit on the armrest. Her eyes were wide and unfocused, she had an easy smile. Remus carefully took control of his facial features and smiled back at her as if he hadn’t a care in the world.
“他和艾梅琳已經在一起有一段時間了。”莉莉對雷木斯說，坐到扶手上。她的眼睛大而失焦，露出輕鬆的笑容。雷木斯小心地控制著自己的面部表情，像是世上無憂無慮一樣對她微笑。

“You sound surprised.”
“你聽起來很驚訝。”

“Well, I am a bit. I didn’t see him as the sort of bloke who wants a regular girl.”
“嗯，是有點。我沒看出他是那種想要一個普通女孩的男人。”

Remus shrugged, because he couldn’t speak without saying too much. Lily carried on regardless. “And – I know it sounds horrible, and I know he’s your friend, so juss tell me to shuddup, but I did sort of think… y’know, that he’s only goin’ out wif her to upset his family.”
雷木斯聳了聳肩，因為他一開口就會說得太多。莉莉不管不顧地繼續說：“而且——我知道這聽起來很可怕，我知道他是你的朋友，所以只要告訴我閉嘴，但我確實有點認為…你知道，他只是和她約會是為了惹怒他的家人。”

“Whaddyou mean?” Remus asked, taking a very long swig from his firewhisky.
“你什麼意思？”雷木斯問，長長地喝了一口火焰威士忌。

“Ohh, y’know,” Lily slurred, maybe even drunker than he was, “Evr’y one knows Black’s on a weird crusade ‘gainst his mum… never goes wif pureblood girls. There was Mary…” she started counting Sirius’s conquests off on her fingers, “she’s muggleborn… Evangelina, Florence, Avni… now Emmeline.”
“哦，你知道，”莉莉含糊地說，可能比他還醉，“每個人都知道布萊克對他媽媽發起了一場奇怪的戰役...從來不和純血統的女孩交往。有瑪麗…”她開始用手指數天狼星的征服者，“她是麻瓜出生的…伊萬潔琳娜，弗洛倫斯，阿芙妮…現在是艾梅琳。”

“Might just be a coincidence.” Remus was worried he might not be able to control his voice much longer; it was getting horribly high and nervous.
“可能只是巧合。”雷木斯擔心他可能無法再控制他的聲音；它變得可怕地高而緊張。

“Pfff.” Lily laughed, spilling some of her own drink. “Sssssrus Black never does anyfin by coincidence. Issss allll calculated wif him.” She chuckled to herself, raising her goblet to her lips, “He’d shag a vampire if there was one at Hogwarts.”
“呸。”莉莉笑了，把她自己的飲料撒了一些。“天狼星·布萊克從來不會做任何事是巧合。對他來說一切都是計算好的。”她自顧自地笑著，把酒杯舉到嘴邊，“如果霍格華茲有一個吸血鬼，他也會上。”

Remus stood up very suddenly, knuckles cracking. Lily almost fell off the arm of the couch in fright,
雷木斯突然站了起來，指關節劈啪作響。莉莉幾乎嚇得從沙發扶手上摔了下來，

“Wassup?” She asked, confused, looking blearily up at him.
“怎麼了？”她困惑地問，模糊地抬頭看著他。

“I’m… I’m going to be sick.” Remus said, realising that he really was. He bolted away and up the stairs as fast as he could and stumbled into the bathroom just in time, retching into the toilet bowl.
“我…我要吐了。”雷木斯說，意識到他真的要吐了。他飛快地跑開，上樓梯，跌跌撞撞地剛好趕到浴室，對著馬桶嘔吐起來。

He rocked back on his ankles, sweating and cold. He’d drunk too much, now he just wanted to lie down and sleep and not think about anything. Remus brushed his teeth and washed his face in cold water. He felt less queasy, but no less sober. He pulled on his pyjama bottoms and opened the door.
他搖晃著腳踝，出汗又覺得冷。他喝得太多了，現在只想躺下睡覺，不去想任何事情。雷木斯刷了牙，用冷水洗了臉。他感覺不那麼噁心了，但也沒有更清醒。他穿上睡褲，打開了門。

Sirius was standing on the other side, leaning against his bed post, with his hands in his pockets. He looked so thoroughly himself. Their eyes met and held. Sirius broke first.
天狼星站在另一邊，靠在他的床柱上，手插在口袋裡。他看起來那麼徹底地做自己。他們的目光相遇並持續。天狼星先開了口。

“Came up to check you’re all right.”
“上來看看你沒事吧。”

Remus closed the door behind him, stepping forward.
雷木斯關上身後的門，向前走了一步。

“Yeah,” he replied, warily, “Just a bit too pissed, that’s all. Going to bed.”
“是的，”他謹慎地回答，“只是喝得有點太醉了，就這樣。要去睡覺了。”

“Look, about the stuff I said,” Sirius started. Remus braced himself, not sure what was coming. “I’m really sorry.” Sirius said, helplessly. “I don’t even know why I am but… I’m just sorry, ok?”
“聽著，關於我說的那些話，”天狼星開始說。雷木斯做好準備，不知道會發生什麼。“我真的很抱歉。”天狼星無助地說。“我甚至不知道為什麼，但…我就是很抱歉，好嗎？”

He placed a hand on Remus’ shoulder, seemingly in an apologetic gesture. It was hot on Remus’ bare skin, but he didn’t shrug it away. He just hoped that they might finally part, and he could go to bed. Sirius would return downstairs to the party. But instead, Sirius kissed him. Feeling a fool, Remus kissed him back, hungrily, toothpaste and whisky.
他把手放在雷木斯的肩膀上，似乎是道歉的姿態。這只手放在雷木斯裸露的皮膚上很熱，但他沒有把它甩開。他只希望他們終於可以分開，他可以去睡覺。天狼星會回到樓下的派對。但相反，天狼星吻了他。感覺像個傻瓜，雷木斯飢渴地回吻他，牙膏和威士忌的味道。

Sirius pushed forward, stumbling slightly, and leaned heavily on Remus, gripping both his shoulders now. Remus pulled away, suddenly remembering what was wrong.
天狼星向前推，稍微絆了一下，重重地靠在雷木斯身上，現在抓住他的雙肩。雷木斯猛然抽身，突然想起了錯誤之處。

“You’re drunk.” He said.
“你醉了。”他說。

“Yeah,” Sirius slurred, grinning, “So’re you.”
“是的，”天狼星含糊地說，笑著，“你也是。”

“Yeah,” Remus agreed. He pulled back, leaving Sirius to balance by himself. He rubbed the back of his head. “I don’t think we should… I think you’ll regret it.”
“是的，”雷木斯同意。他退後一步，讓天狼星自己平衡。他揉了揉後腦勺。“我覺得我們不應該…我覺得你會後悔的。”

“Since when do you care?” Sirius purred, leaning in again. Remus stepped back, sharply, pressing his hand to Sirius’ chest to keep him at bay.
“你什麼時候開始在意了？”天狼星輕聲說，再次靠近。雷木斯迅速後退，把手按在天狼星的胸口，讓他保持距離。

“No, Sirius. What about Emmeline?”
“不，天狼星。那艾梅琳呢？”

Sirius shook his head dizzily, frowning.
天狼星暈頭轉向地搖頭，皺起眉頭。

“Fuck Emmeline!” He grunted. Remus rolled his eyes,
“去他的艾梅琳！”他咕噥著。雷木斯翻了個白眼，

“But you already do, don’t you, Black? That’s the problem.”
“但你已經這麼做了，不是嗎，布萊克？這就是問題所在。”

“So…” Sirius spoke slowly, mind foggy with drink, “We have to stop our… thing, just because of her?”
“所以…”天狼星慢慢說，因為喝酒腦子昏昏沉沉，“我們要因為她而停止我們的…事情嗎？”

“Our ‘thing’!? God, Sirius, you’re unbelievable.”
“我們的‘事情’！？天啊，天狼星，你真是不可思議。”

“What?!”
“什麼？！”

“Siiiiiiiriuuuuuuuus…” Emmeline’s tipsy voice echoed up the staircase, “Where are youuuuuu?”
“天狼星...”艾梅琳醉醺醺的聲音在樓梯上迴響，“你在哪兒啊？”

They both turned, looking down into the shadows.
他們都轉過身，看向陰影中的樓下。

“You’d better go to her.” Remus said, walking over to his bed. Sirius followed him like a lost puppy, pulling at the waistband of his pyjama bottoms needily.
“你最好去找她。”雷木斯說，走向他的床。天狼星像迷路的小狗一樣跟著他，需求地拉著他的睡褲腰帶。

“C’mon, just…”
“拜託，只是…”

“No!”
“不！”

“Siiiiriuuuuuuus…. I’m coming to get you!”
“天狼星...我來找你了！”

Remus pushed him away one last time,
雷木斯最後一次把他推開，

“Go on, I don’t want her up here!”
“快去，我不想她上來！”

Sirius stared at him for a bit longer, drink still blurring his reactions, making him slow and stupid.
天狼星盯著他看了一會兒，酒精仍然模糊著他的反應，讓他變得遲鈍而愚蠢。

“Ok, but I’ll come back… we can talk…”
“好吧，但我會回來的...我們可以談談…”

“No.” Remus said, again. “We’ve talked. It’s over. Goodnight, Sirius.”
“不。”雷木斯再次說。“我們已經談過了。結束了。晚安，天狼星。”

 

 

Chapter 111~115Chapter Summary

111. Sixth Year: Separation (2017-11-11)
112. Sixth Year: Apparitions (2017-11-14)
113. Sixth Year: The Box (2017-11-15)
114. Summer 1977: Part 1 (2017-11-16)
115. Summer 1977: Part 2 (2017-11-17)

Chapter 111: Sixth Year: Separation 

Remus woke up the next morning with a hangover and an enormous sense of relief. He’d had to be drunk to do it, but it was done. No more jealousy, no more worrying, no more anxious questioning. The key now, he decided, was maintaining a distance, and building barriers.
雷木斯第二天早上醒來時，宿醉和巨大的解脫感一起襲來。他必須醉醺醺的才能做到，但終於完成了。不再有嫉妒、不再擔心、不再焦慮。現在的關鍵，他決定，是保持距離，並建立屏障。

By the time he had finished his shower on the morning after his seventeenth birthday, Remus had a plan of action. He would close the door on whatever his relationship with Sirius had been - it was fine to look upon Christmas as a fond memory, or to feel a little bit lonelier, a little less whole - but this was entirely necessary, both for his health and his sanity.
在他十七歲生日的第二天早晨，洗完澡後，雷木斯已經制定了一個行動計劃。他會關上與天狼星之間關係的大門——可以把聖誕節當作美好的回憶，或者感到有點孤單，有點不完整——但這是完全必要的，為了他的健康和理智。

Sirius was not the whole world, as much as he might seem it sometimes.
天狼星並不是整個世界，儘管有時候看起來像。

Remus had demonstrated this almost immediately. Upon exiting the bathroom, he bumped into James - who looked as though he hadn’t touched a drop of liquor the night before, despite having had just as much as everyone else. That infuriating Potter good fortune apparently applied to hangovers, too.
雷木斯幾乎立刻證明了這一點。走出浴室後，他撞見了詹姆斯——看起來他昨晚一滴酒都沒碰，儘管喝得和其他人一樣多。那令人惱火的波特好運顯然也適用於宿醉。

“Morning, Moony!” He grinned, rosy cheeked in his quidditch robes. Today was not a practice day, but why should that stop James? He raised his broom, “Fancy a spin around the pitch?” This was an old joke - he always asked, and Remus always pulled a face.
“早上好，月亮臉！”他咧嘴笑了笑，穿著魁地奇長袍，臉頰紅潤。今天不是訓練日，但這為什麼要阻止詹姆斯呢？他舉起掃帚，“想在球場上轉一圈嗎？”這是一個老笑話——他總是問，而雷木斯總是做鬼臉。

Remus glanced at the two made beds, and the two with the curtains still closed, where (presumably) Peter and Sirius were still fast asleep.
雷木斯瞥了一眼那兩張已經整理好的床，以及另外兩張床帷還拉著的床，彼得和天狼星還在熟睡。

“Yeah.” Remus said. “Go on, then.”
“好。”雷木斯說。“那就去吧。”

“Eh?!” James stopped in his tracks.
“啊？！”詹姆斯停下腳步。

Remus nodded, casually,
雷木斯隨意地點了點頭，

“I’ll go with you. I ought to get better at flying, might be useful when we finish school. I’ve got your old broom somewhere, let me dig it out…”
“我和你一起去。我應該學會更好地飛行，這在我們畢業後可能會有用。我有你的舊掃帚，讓我找找看...”

Credit to James, after his initial surprise he was all for the idea, and even held his tongue when he saw the state of Remus’s dusty, neglected broomstick. He simply offered to polish it, then led Remus down to the quidditch pitch jabbering about simple, basic exercises to ‘get your confidence up’.
詹姆斯值得稱讚，儘管他最初感到驚訝，但他完全贊成這個主意，甚至在看到雷木斯那把布滿灰塵、被忽視的掃帚狀態時也沒說什麼。他只是提出幫忙擦亮它，然後帶著雷木斯到魁地奇球場，喋喋不休地講述一些簡單的基本練習來“增強信心”。

And it wasn’t awful. James was a very patient teacher, and Remus felt in safe hands - the bespectacled boy didn’t even laugh after the third time he fell off. Afterwards, Remus felt he even understood James a little better. It was a very wholesome feeling, walking back to breakfast, hungry and aching and full of energy. This first experiment had gone so well, in fact, that Remus decided he would say yes to anything his friends asked of him from now on. In this way, he would keep himself busy until Sirius went back to being whatever he’d been before.
並沒有那麼糟糕。詹姆斯是一位非常耐心的老師，雷木斯感到很安全——這個戴眼鏡的男孩即使在他第三次摔下來之後也沒有笑。之後，雷木斯感覺他甚至更了解詹姆斯了一點。這是一種非常健康的感覺，走回去吃早餐時，飢餓、酸痛且充滿活力。事實上，這次初次嘗試進展得如此順利，雷木斯決定從現在起對朋友們的任何要求都說“好”。以這種方式，他會讓自己忙碌起來，直到天狼星恢復到之前的樣子。

At breakfast they were greeted by a row of red eyed, sickly-faced Gryffindors, all leaning sleepily on their elbows, Mary and Marlene sitting back to back, propping each other up.
在早餐時，他們遇到了一排眼睛紅紅、面色病態的格蘭芬多學生，個個睡眼惺忪地靠在桌上，瑪麗和瑪琳背靠背坐著，互相支撐著。

“Christ,” Mary squinted at James and Remus, “You’ve not been exercising?! Bloody lunatics.”
“天啊，”瑪麗瞇著眼看著詹姆斯和雷木斯，“你們沒有在運動吧？！瘋了吧。”

“You went, Moony?!” Sirius looked up, wincing and rubbing his apparently sore neck.
“你去了，月亮臉？！”天狼星抬起頭，皺著眉頭揉著顯然酸痛的脖子。

Remus just gave him a small shrug, then looked away. Sirius didn’t try to talk to him again.
雷木斯只是輕輕聳了聳肩，然後轉過頭去。天狼星再也沒有試圖和他說話。

They were halfway through the meal - Remus as usual eating half his bodyweight in fried bread, eggs, baked beans and bacon; everyone else picking at their own plate with faintly nauseous expressions or else nursing a large mug of black coffee - when Lily straightened up, eyes wide suddenly, as if electrified.
他們吃到一半——雷木斯像往常一樣吃著相當於自己體重一半的油炸麵包、雞蛋、烤豆和培根；其他人則帶著輕微的惡心表情撥弄著自己的盤子，或者端著一大杯黑咖啡——這時莉莉突然挺直了腰，眼睛睜大，好像被電擊了一樣。

“Oh shit!” she said, then kicked James under the table, “Potter!” She hissed, “We never gave Remus his present!”
“哦，糟了！”她說，然後踢了詹姆斯一腳，“波特！”她低聲說，“我們還沒給雷木斯他的禮物！”

James smirked at her, and Remus raised an eyebrow,
詹姆斯對她露出得意的笑容，雷木斯挑了挑眉，

“You and James got me a present? Together?”
“你和詹姆斯一起給我買了禮物？”

“We all did,” James laughed, “And there’s no need to beat me up, Evans, I’ve got it right here,” he withdrew a brown leather box from his robes. It was about the size of his hand, smooth and expensive looking, with a gold embossed border. It looked like the sort of thing girls kept their pricier jewellery in.
“我們所有人一起買的，”詹姆斯笑道，“不用打我，埃文斯，我這裡就有，”他從長袍裡取出一個棕色的皮革盒子。盒子大約有他的手掌大小，看起來光滑且昂貴，邊緣有金色的壓花。看起來像是女生用來裝貴重首飾的那種東西。

“You all…?” Remus accepted the box, curiously. “I hope you didn’t spend too much, you know I can’t--”
“你們所有人...？”雷木斯好奇地接過盒子。“希望你們沒花太多錢，你知道我不能——”

“Oh, shut yer face, Moony,” Peter yawned, prodding his porridge dazedly, “We had a whip-round for you - almost everyone in Gryffindor wanted to put in.”
“哦，閉嘴吧，月亮臉，”彼得打了個哈欠，迷迷糊糊地戳著粥，“我們為你湊了份子——幾乎所有的格蘭芬多人都想參與。”

“Not just Gryffindor, either,” Marlene grinned, “Nearly everyone we asked, even some teachers!”
“不只是格蘭芬多，”瑪琳笑道，“幾乎我們問過的每個人，甚至還有一些老師！”

Remus was just looking down at the box, now, because he knew he had probably gone red. Some hot, sickly bubble of emotion was burning his throat, so he swallowed, hard, which didn’t help.
雷木斯只是低頭看著那個盒子，因為他知道自己可能已經臉紅了。一股火熱、難受的情感泡泡正在燒灼他的喉嚨，所以他努力吞嚥，但沒有用。

“Open it, Remus!” He heard Lily’s voice. He pried it apart, and the box sprang open in a pleasingly neat motion. The interior was midnight blue velvet, and nestled among the folds was the most beautiful piece of treasure Remus had ever seen.
“打開它，雷木斯！”他聽到莉莉的聲音。他把盒子撬開，盒子以一種令人愉悅的整齊動作打開了。內部是午夜藍色的天鵝絨，折痕間嵌著雷木斯見過的最美麗的寶物。

It was a golden pocket watch, on a long, fine chain, polished to a high shine so that it was practically glowing. The case was decorated with intricate, vine-like swirls and patterns surrounding a shield at the centre which had been engraved in elaborate script with his initials: R. J. L.
那是一個金色的懷錶，掛在一條細長的鏈子上，拋光得非常光亮，幾乎在發光。錶殼上裝飾著複雜的藤蔓狀漩渦和圖案，中心是一個盾牌，上面刻著他名字的首字母：R. J. L.

He snapped it open with the lightest touch, and saw inside that the clock face was mother of pearl, and shimmered gorgeously beneath the golden hands which ticked away reassuringly. The other half seemed to contain a compass.
他輕輕一觸就打開了它，看到裡面的錶盤是珍珠母做的，在金色指針下閃閃發光，令人放心地滴答作響。另一半似乎裝有一個指南針。

“I didn’t think they worked at Hogwarts?” He murmured,
“我以為它們在霍格沃茲不起作用？”他喃喃道，

“It’s special!” Mary said, eagerly, “It doesn’t point north, or wherever normal ones do. If you say the name of somebody you love, it points you in their direction!”
“它很特別！”瑪麗急切地說，“它不指向北方，也不指向其他正常的方向。如果你說出你愛的人的名字，它會指向他們的方向！”

“Try it out, Moony!” James encouraged.
“試試看，月亮臉！”詹姆斯鼓勵道。

Remus looked up at his friends, nervously, then quickly raised the watch to his mouth and whispered,
雷木斯緊張地看著他的朋友們，然後迅速將懷錶舉到嘴邊，低聲說，

“Lily Evans.”
“莉莉·伊萬斯。”

At once, the needle spun into place, pointing directly across the table. Lily grinned bashfully. James kicked him under the table,
針馬上旋轉到位，指向桌子的另一邊。莉莉害羞地笑了。詹姆斯在桌下踢了他一腳，

“Bloody ladies man.”
“真是個花花公子。”

“You’re all amazing.” Remus said, hoping he didn’t sound too choked up. “Bloody amazing.”
“你們都太棒了。”雷木斯說，希望自己的聲音不會太哽咽。“真是太棒了。”

For the first week, Remus’s new regime seemed pretty effective. It certainly kept him busy. He said yes to everything; happily dropping whatever he was doing at a minute’s notice to help a younger student with their homework, or call a group study session when the Care of Magical Creatures NEWTs class panicked over sphinxes. He accompanied Lily on patrols, he discussed literature with Chris, talked quidditch tactics with Marlene and played endless games of chess with Peter (and lost every time). He was the angel of Gryffindor tower.
在第一周，雷木斯的新制度似乎相當有效。這確實讓他忙碌起來。他對所有事情都說“好”；高興地在一分鐘的通知下放下手頭的事情去幫助低年級學生做作業，或者當神奇生物護理課的N.E.W.T.s班級因斯芬克斯而恐慌時召集小組學習會。他陪莉莉巡邏，與克里斯討論文學，與瑪琳討論魁地奇戰術，並與彼得玩無數局象棋（每次都輸）。他成為了格蘭芬多塔的天使。

Because Sirius was not the only thing Remus was ignoring.
因為天狼星並不是雷木斯唯一忽視的事情。

The old shoebox Dumbledore had given him sat underneath his bed still, gathering dust and unopened, as it probably had been for many years – perhaps on some shelf in Matron’s office. Why was it a shoebox? Remus wondered, as he tossed and turned in his bed every night. Something so mundane, so every day. It made whatever was inside seem all the more terrifying. Trust Matron to be so heartlessly practical. It wasn’t even from a good shoe shop, like Clarks or Johnson’s. It was an economy brand, like everything else he’d ever received at St Edmund’s.
鄧布利多給他的那個舊鞋盒仍然放在他床下，積著灰塵，沒有打開，可能已經很多年了——也許在醫務室的一個架子上。為什麼是鞋盒？雷木斯每晚在床上翻來覆去地想著。這麼平凡、這麼日常的東西。這讓裡面的東西顯得更加可怕。相信醫務室阿姨是這麼無情實際的。甚至不是來自好的鞋店，比如Clarks或Johnson's。這是一個經濟品牌，像他在聖愛德蒙學院收到的所有東西一樣。

The box might have contained any number of things; and it wasn’t that Remus wasn’t curious. It wasn’t as if he didn’t try to imagine what was in there. Deeds to a house he could go and live in, that would be pretty brilliant. Maybe some old money. Photographs. A letter from his father, an explanation - it might contain answers to questions he hadn’t even known to ask.
這個盒子裡可能裝著各種各樣的東西；而且不是說雷木斯不感興趣。他並不是沒有試圖想像裡面有什麼。可以住進去的房子的契約，那會非常棒。也許一些舊錢。照片。父親的一封信，一個解釋——可能包含他甚至不知道該問的問題的答案。

But he didn’t open it. He knew that once he opened the box, all of the mystery would disappear, and he would be left with something disappointing. Because there could be nothing inside that could truly satisfy him.
但他沒有打開它。他知道一旦打開盒子，所有的神秘感都會消失，他會失望地發現裡面沒有什麼真正能滿足他的東西。因為裡面不可能有任何東西能真正滿足他。

So, keeping busy helped; making sure he exhausted himself each day so that he fell straight to sleep each night, even when the other boys stayed up chatting, plotting pranks. But Sirius himself helped, too. By some incredible twist of fate, he appeared to be giving Remus space.
所以，保持忙碌有幫助；確保每天讓自己筋疲力盡，這樣每晚可以直接入睡，即使其他男孩熬夜聊天，策劃惡作劇。但天狼星自己也幫了忙。命運的一個驚人轉折，他似乎在給雷木斯空間。

If Sirius remembered Remus’s harsh words from the night of the party, then he didn’t mention it. But he didn’t try to get him alone, or treat him with any kind of resentment or disdain. Remus surmised that Sirius had either:
如果天狼星記得雷木斯在聚會之夜的嚴厲話語，那麼他沒有提及。但他也沒有試圖單獨找到他，或以任何形式對待他懷有怨恨或鄙視。雷木斯猜想天狼星要麼：

been too drunk to take anything in, or;
喝得太醉而什麼都沒聽進去，或者；

taken Remus at his word, and chosen to back away quietly.
接受雷木斯的話，並選擇悄悄退後。

For Remus, with exams on the horizon, option 2 was by far the most preferable, so he decided to believe it.
對於雷木斯來說，隨著考試的臨近，第二個選項是最可取的，所以他決定相信它。

Their separation was so smooth, and so complete, that soon even Remus had a hard time believing they’d ever been close at all. Surely, to everyone else, it must seem that nothing had changed at all. Sirius was still Sirius - outgoing, girl-loving, cheeky, rebellious, devastating. And Remus was just Remus - quiet, private, studious and long-suffering secondary marauder.
他們的分離是如此順利和徹底，以至於很快連雷木斯自己都很難相信他們曾經親密無間。當然，對其他人來說，這似乎一點都沒有變化。天狼星仍然是天狼星——外向、愛女孩子、厚臉皮、叛逆、令人心碎。而雷木斯只是雷木斯——安靜、內向、好學和長期受苦的次要惡作劇者。

As March drew to a close, the birthday party now weeks behind them, there was only one moment when the situation very nearly came to a head, but was quickly deflated, with help from an unexpected quarter.
隨著三月接近尾聲，生日聚會已經過去幾周，只有一次情況差點達到高潮，但在意想不到的幫助下迅速化解了。

It was late one Friday afternoon, and Remus was hosting an introductory duelling workshop. Christopher was there – Christopher was never far away, these days – but most of the class were beginners, and much younger. They were just grasping some basic disarming and diversionary spells, when the door to the Charms classroom opened, but no one walked in. Everyone turned to look, and muttered ‘Peeves’, before returning to their attack stances. Remus knew better.
那是某個星期五的下午，雷木斯正在主持一個基礎決鬥工作坊。克里斯托弗也在場——這些天來，克里斯托弗從未遠離——但大多數學生都是初學者，而且年紀較小。他們剛剛掌握了一些基本的繳械和轉移咒語，這時魔咒課教室的門開了，但沒有人進來。大家轉頭看了一眼，喃喃道“皮皮鬼”，然後繼續他們的攻擊姿勢。雷木斯心裡清楚。

He followed the scent about the room, and watched the open door of Flitwick’s office moved only very slightly, as if someone had brushed the handle on their way inside. Flitwick trusted Remus, and left his office open in case they needed any equipment from inside - he kept a number of large mattresses which were good for duelling, as well as an emergency healing kit in there. Remus cleared his throat,
他跟著氣味走，看到弗利維克教授辦公室的門只動了一下，似乎有人在進入時擦到了門把手。弗利維克教授信任雷木斯，讓他的辦公室敞開，以防需要裡面的任何設備——裡面放著一些適合決鬥的大墊子，還有一個緊急醫療包。雷木斯清了清嗓子，

“That’s good! Keep practicing, remember to enunciate nice and loudly, for me… I’ll be right back.”
“很好！繼續練習，記得要發音清晰響亮……我馬上回來。”

He slipped around the edges of the room as he said this, then stepped inside the office.
他一邊說著，一邊繞過房間邊緣，然後進入辦公室。

“Sirius,” Remus hissed, “Get out, this isn’t--”
“天狼星，”雷木斯低聲說，“出去，這不是——”

“I’m just hiding from Filch! Have a heart, Moony!” Sirius whipped back the invisibility cloak, a familiar grin on his face. The sort of grin that usually got him whatever he liked. Remus bristled.
“我只是躲避費爾奇！體諒一下吧，月亮臉！”天狼星掀開了隱形衣，臉上露出熟悉的笑容。這種笑容通常能讓他得到任何想要的東西。雷木斯怒火中燒。

“You’ve got the cloak, hide somewhere else! I’m nearly finished in here, anyway, they’ll be leaving in a minute.”
“你有隱形衣，去別的地方躲吧！反正我快完成了，他們馬上就會離開。”

“Well then it’s no big deal, is it? I’ll just stay ‘til they’re all gone. Might even learn something!”
“那就沒什麼大不了的，不是嗎？我就待到他們都走了。甚至還可能學到點什麼！”

“Remus? Are you ok in there?” A tap at the door. Christopher.
“雷木斯？你在裡面還好嗎？”門上的輕敲聲。克里斯托弗。

“Yeah, sorry!” Remus gave Sirius one last furious glance, before stepping out. Sirius grinned and vanished again. Remus left the door open, and he knew that Sirius had got bored and left the office. Remus pictured him leaning casually against the wall, observing with a wry smile.
“嗯，對不起！”雷木斯最後狠狠地瞪了天狼星一眼，然後走了出去。天狼星笑了笑，再次消失。雷木斯把門開著，他知道天狼星已經厭倦了並離開了辦公室。雷木斯想像著他隨意地靠在牆上，帶著苦笑觀察著。

Remus carried on teaching as best he could, trying to ignore the distraction. He felt horribly exposed, being watched like that, knowing that Sirius was so near. When the class finally finished, Remus ushered them all out, saying that the room was needed for something else. Everyone left, chattering excitedly about the weekend ahead. Everyone except Christopher.
雷木斯盡力繼續教學，試圖忽視這個干擾。他感到非常暴露，被這樣看著，知道天狼星就在附近。當課堂終於結束時，雷木斯把他們都趕了出去，說這個房間需要用於其他事情。每個人都離開了，興奮地聊著即將到來的週末。除了克里斯托弗。

“I’ll help you clear up,” he said, eagerly, as the last few students filtered out, shouting their goodbyes to Remus as they went.
“我來幫你收拾，”他熱切地說，當最後幾個學生走出來時，向雷木斯喊著再見。

Christopher and Remus made short work of rearranging the Charms classroom, restoring it to its usual orderliness. He could feel Sirius watching them the whole time, the hairs on the back of his neck standing up.
克里斯托弗和雷木斯很快就把魔咒教室重新安排好，恢復了平時的整潔。他能感覺到天狼星一直在看著他們，脖子後面的汗毛都豎起來了。

(以下是AI自己寫的，我叫你翻譯沒有叫你超越阿????
“Did you read that book?” Christopher asked, “The Charioteer?”
“你看了那本書嗎？”克里斯托弗問，“《戰車馭手》？”

Remus winced, but nodded,
雷木斯皺了皺眉，但點了點頭，

“Yeah, it was good.”
“嗯，不錯。”

It had been good. Hard to read - nothing at all like the breezy pulp novels he read in between school books. It was so real it had hurt sometimes. Laurie Odell was so smart and so fragile, in a way that made Remus want to be him and protect him at the same time. He supposed Christopher would get it, and that’s why he’d lent it to him.
確實不錯。很難讀——完全不像他在學校課本間看的那些輕鬆通俗小說。有時候真實得令人難受。勞里·奧德爾是如此聰明和脆弱，以至於雷木斯既想成為他，又想保護他。他猜克里斯托弗會明白，這就是為什麼他把它借給他的原因。

“Which part did you like best?”
“你最喜歡哪一部分？”

“Er…” Remus was awful at answering questions like that. So awful, he almost wished that Sirius would interrupt them, just so he wouldn’t have to think of a real answer. Christopher was giving him such an earnest look.
“呃……”雷木斯對回答這樣的問題很差。他差得幾乎希望天狼星會打斷他們，這樣他就不必想一個真正的答案。克里斯托弗正給他一個如此認真的表情。

“Laurie was interesting.” He said, finally. Christopher nodded, accepting that.
“勞里很有趣。”他最終說道。克里斯托弗點點頭，接受了這個回答。

“I liked Ralph,” he replied. “He’s so brave and honest. I think I’d like to be like that. Not to… live a lie, you know? It’s such a waste, life’s so short.”
“我喜歡拉爾夫，”他回答。“他如此勇敢和誠實。我想我也想那樣。不去...過著謊言般的生活，你知道嗎？這是多麼的浪費，生命如此短暫。”

“Yeah…” Remus replied, vaguely, knowing what he was getting at. He felt his pulse quicken.
“是啊……”雷木斯含糊地回答，知道他在說什麼。他感到脈搏加快。

“Well, I’ve got to--”
“嗯，我得——”

“Do you ever think about leaving? Leaving Hogwarts, I mean. How you’re going to manage?”
“你有沒有想過離開？我是說，離開霍格沃茲。你打算怎麼辦？”

“Er… sometimes, I suppose. I try not to think too much about the future.”
“呃……有時候吧。我試著不去想太多未來的事情。”

“It’s silly,” Christopher said, seriously. “We only get one life, you know? No one’s going to live it for us. We can’t sit around waiting for something to happen, waiting to be happy, we’ve got to make it happen ourselves.”
“這很愚蠢，”克里斯托弗認真地說。“我們只有一生，你知道嗎？沒有人會為我們活。我們不能坐等事情發生，等待幸福，我們必須自己去實現。”

Remus did not have an answer for that.
雷木斯沒有答案。

Christopher moved closer, speaking very softly,
克里斯托弗靠近了一些，低聲說，

“I really like you, Remus.”
“我真的很喜歡你，雷木斯。”

Remus closed his eyes, and swallowed. He knew what Christopher was asking of him. He also knew that he couldn’t do it.
雷木斯閉上眼睛，吞咽了一下。他知道克里斯托弗在向他要求什麼。他也知道自己做不到。

“Sorry,” he said, quietly. “I’m not…”
“對不起，”他輕聲說。“我不是……”

“Please, Remus,” Christopher tried again, placing a hand on his arm. Remus flinched. “You don’t have to be afraid, I just want to talk, just to see--”
“拜託，雷木斯，”克里斯托弗再試了一次，將一隻手放在他的胳膊上。雷木斯退縮了一下。“你不必害怕，我只是想聊聊，只是想看看——”

“Get off!” Remus hissed, much more harshly than he meant to. Christopher stepped back, hurt, and Remus rubbed his face with his hands, trying to cover his embarrassment.
“放開！”雷木斯厲聲說，比他本意要嚴厲得多。克里斯托弗後退了一步，受了傷害，雷木斯用雙手揉著臉，試圖掩飾自己的尷尬。

“Sorry,” he said again, “Sorry, Chris, I just… I’m not like that.”
“對不起，”他再次說，“對不起，克里斯，我只是……我不是那樣的人。”

It hurt to say, even if it wasn’t entirely true. Christopher nodded, his head bowed, hair covering his eyes,
說這話很痛苦，即使這不完全是真的。克里斯托弗點點頭，低下頭，頭髮遮住了眼睛，

“It’s ok, Remus,” he replied, “I understand. I’m sorry I asked.”
“沒事的，雷木斯，”他回答，“我明白。我很抱歉問了這些。”

“No,” Remus said, desperately, “I’m sorry I can’t… be what you want me to be.”
“不，”雷木斯絕望地說，“對不起，我不能……成為你希望的樣子。”

“You don’t know what I want, Remus,” Christopher raised his head, and to his surprise Remus saw that he was smiling. “But it’s ok. Thanks for reading the book, anyway. I’ll see you later.”
“你不知道我想要什麼，雷木斯，”克里斯托弗抬起頭，讓雷木斯驚訝的是，他看到克里斯托弗在笑。“但沒關係。不管怎樣，謝謝你讀了那本書。我們以後再見。”

And he left. Remus watched him go, guiltily. The classroom was now completely empty. Even Sirius had vanished. He closed his eyes and leaned against the desk, pressing his hands into the wood to ground himself.
然後他走了。雷木斯愧疚地看著他離開。教室現在完全空了。甚至天狼星也消失了。他閉上眼睛，靠在桌子上，雙手壓在木頭上以穩住自己。

A moment later, he heard the faintest sound. A soft exhale.
片刻後，他聽到一個輕微的聲音。輕輕的呼氣聲。

“Where are you going, you big idiot?”
“你要去哪兒，你這個大笨蛋？”

Remus turned, and there was Sirius, perched on the edge of Flitwick’s desk, swinging his legs, looking thoroughly unimpressed. Remus stared, jaw hanging open.
雷木斯轉過身來，看到天狼星坐在弗利維克教授的桌邊，晃著腿，顯得毫不在意。雷木斯張著嘴，瞪著眼睛。

“Wh-where…”
“哪…哪裡…”

“You know why you won’t go out with anyone?” Sirius asked, conversationally. “Because you’re pining for me. It’s pathetic, really.”
“你知道為什麼你不會和任何人約會嗎？”天狼星隨意地問道。“因為你在為我哀傷。真的很可憐。”

Remus swallowed again, glaring at him. He willed himself to move, to run away, to storm out, to do anything. He stayed still.
雷木斯再次吞咽，瞪著他。他強迫自己動起來，逃跑，怒氣沖沖地離開，做任何事情。但他靜止不動。

“You’re so up yourself,” he said, finally, through gritted teeth, “It’s got nothing to do with you, you self-absorbed prick.”
“你真是自以為是，”他終於咬著牙說道，“這跟你沒關係，你這個自戀的混蛋。”

“I know what I heard.” Sirius got up, walking slowly towards Remus. He didn’t have his wand out, but Remus still felt threatened.
“我知道我聽到了什麼。”天狼星站起來，慢慢朝雷木斯走來。他沒有拿出魔杖，但雷木斯仍然感到威脅。

“You’re wrong.”
“你錯了。”

“I’m never wrong. You’re scared to death. You’re scared to death of loving anyone, because you think you’re--”
“我從來沒錯過。你嚇得要死。你害怕愛上任何人，因為你認為自己是——”)



“Did you read that book?” Christopher asked, “The Charioteer?”

Remus winced, but nodded,
“你讀那本書了嗎？”克里斯托弗問道，“《戰車手》？”

“Yeah, it was good.”

It had been good. Hard to read, at points, worryingly relatable. But something of a relief, too.
“是的，很好。”

“Oh, I’m so glad you liked it!” Christopher said. Remus could imagine Sirius pulling a face at Chris getting so excited over a book. “What about the ending?”

“Oh, yeah, it was good. I liked it.”
“哦，我很高興你喜歡它！”克里斯托弗說。雷木斯可以想像天狼星對克里斯對一本書如此激動的表情。“結局怎麼樣？”

“Really?” Christopher wrinkled his nose, “I didn’t. I wish Laurie had picked Andrew, don’t you?”

Of course Christopher identified with Andrew - sweet and bookish and chaste.
“真的嗎？”克里斯托弗皺著鼻子說，“我不喜歡。我希望勞里選擇了安德魯，你不是嗎？”

“I liked Ralph.” Remus shrugged, “Even if he wasn’t perfect, he was more… I dunno. Exciting?”

Remus had thought Ralph sounded really fucking sexy, actually - but he had been picturing Sirius the whole time, which might have had a lot to do with it. He dearly hoped that if Sirius was eavesdropping - and of course he was, he was Sirius, after all - that he didn’t understand a word Christopher was saying.
“我喜歡拉爾夫。”雷木斯聳聳肩，“即使他不完美，他還是更……我不知道。刺激？”

“I thought you’d like him best,” Christopher said, with a note of sadness. He was standing next to Remus now, his satchel over one shoulder, ready to go. Just go, Remus begged, inwardly. “He reminded me a bit of your friend, Sirius Black.”

“Oh?!” That got his attention. And Sirius’s too, Remus could practically feel him straighten up.
“我以為你會最喜歡他，”克里斯托弗帶著一絲悲傷說。他現在站在雷木斯旁邊，肩上掛著書包，準備離開。雷木斯在心裡懇求他快點走。“他讓我想起了你的朋友，天狼星·布萊克。”

“Yeah,” Christopher smiled coyly, “Sorry, but it’s pretty obvious you have a bit of a thing for him.”

Remus just blinked, struck dumb. Christopher laughed softly, “It’s a waste of time, Remus, can’t you see that? Yeah, he’s… beautiful, and everything, but he’s clearly girl-mad. You ought to… I mean, you deserve someone who cares about you as much as you care about them.”
“是的，”克里斯托弗害羞地笑了笑，“對不起，但很明顯你對他有點意思。”

“Christopher, I don-”

Christopher cut him off with a kiss - he just reached up and kissed Remus, as if it was that easy. Remus’s first instinct was to push him away; this was nothing like what he’d wanted. Fortunately, it was only the briefest brush of the lips.
“克里斯托弗，我——”

“Oh, Chris…” Remus breathed, “I… you’re such a good mate, and…”

Oh shit. He shouldn’t have said ‘mate’. Mate was the worst possible word. He could practically see Christopher’s heart break. But only for a moment, before that pureblood, stiff-upper-lip took over. He shook his head, stepped back.
“哦，克里斯……”雷木斯輕聲說，“我……你是那麼好的朋友，還有……”

“It’s fine. Honestly. I’d rather be friends than not, if that’s all we can be.”

Remus ached.
“沒關係。說真的。如果我們只能是朋友，我寧願這樣。”

“C’mon,” Christopher smiled, as if nothing had happened. “It’s steak and kidney pie tonight, your favourite.”

They left the classroom - just the two of them - and Remus quietly closed the door behind him, to avoid suspicion.
“來吧，”克里斯托弗笑了笑，彷彿什麼都沒發生。“今晚有牛肉和肾臟派，是你最愛的。”

他們離開了教室——只有他們兩個——雷木斯靜靜地關上了門，以避免引起懷疑。

 

Chapter 112: Sixth Year: Apparitions 

 

Sirius didn’t show up for dinner. Emmeline wandered over and asked James where he was, but James just shrugged,
天狼星沒有出現晚餐。艾美琳走過來問詹姆斯他在哪裡，但詹姆斯只是聳聳肩，

“Sorry,” he said, “We were on a mission earlier, but I lost track of him. Hope Filch never caught him…”
“對不起，”他說，“我們早些時候去了一個任務，但我失去了他的蹤跡。希望費爾奇沒抓到他……”

“And why would Filch be looking for Sirius?” Lily asked, setting down her knife and fork and giving James a very direct look.
“費爾奇為什麼會找天狼星？”莉莉問道，放下刀叉，直視詹姆斯。

“Er… I’m sure I don’t know.” James said quickly, staring at his mashed potato as if it was the most fascinating thing in the world. Twenty minutes later, the prefects were summoned to an emergency meeting to discuss a problem on the fifth floor - all of the suits of armour had apparently begun singing opera.
“呃……我肯定不知道。”詹姆斯迅速回答，盯著他的土豆泥，好像它是世界上最迷人的東西。二十分鐘後，學監們被召集到緊急會議上，討論第五層樓的問題——所有盔甲似乎開始唱歌劇了。

All of the students were ordered to their common rooms for the rest of the evening, and when Peter, Remus, Marlene and Mary reached the tower, they found Sirius there, sitting in front of the fireplace, smoking. Where did he get the fags? Remus wondered. He usually asks me. Sirius Black was not the type to buy his own cigarettes; he was a professional borrower.
所有學生被命令在晚上剩餘時間待在自己的公共休息室，當彼得、雷木斯、瑪琳和瑪莉到達塔樓時，他們發現天狼星坐在壁爐前抽煙。他去哪裡弄到煙的？雷木斯想道。他通常會問我。天狼星·布萊克不是會自己買香煙的人；他是一位專業借用者。

“Alright, Black?” Mary asked, cheerfully.
“你好，布萊克？”瑪莉愉快地問道。

“Yeah fine.” Sirius grunted, still staring at the fire.
“嗯，還好。”天狼星咕噥道，仍然盯著火焰看。

“Weren’t hungry?” She asked.
“沒餓嗎？”她問。

“Nope.” He inhaled and puffed out, like a restless dragon.
“沒有。”他吸了口氣，吐出來，像一條不安分的龍。

“Ah,” Mary raised a knowing eyebrow, and looked at the others, “In one of your moods, I see.”
“啊，”瑪莉挑起眉毛，看向其他人，“我看你又在發脾氣了。”

He did not respond to this. Remus often forgot how well Mary knew Sirius. He admired the breezy, no-nonsense way she dealt with him; his own instinct was often to coddle and give in. He ought to take a leaf out of Mary’s book, he thought.
他沒有對此做出反應。雷木斯經常忘記瑪莉對天狼星了解得多麼透徹。他欣賞她處理天狼星時那種輕鬆、直截了當的方式；他自己的本能往往是溺愛和讓步。他應該學學瑪莉的方式，他想。

When Christopher returned from the prefect’s meeting, Remus stuck to him like glue for as long as possible. Partly because he knew he had hurt him, and he wanted to show him that nothing had changed. Partly because he knew that Sirius wouldn’t come anywhere near them while they were together. They sat on the window seat at the back of the room, furthest from the fireplace. It was the same place Sirius had sat with Remus only a few months ago, where they’d argued, then made up. But he wasn’t thinking about it. He was listening to Christopher’s rundown of the prefect’s briefing,
當克里斯托弗從學監會議回來時，雷木斯盡可能地黏著他。部分是因為他知道自己傷害了他，他想向他展示一切並未改變。部分是因為他知道天狼星不會在他們在一起時靠近他們。他們坐在房間最遠處的窗台上，最遠離壁爐。那裡正是幾個月前天狼星和雷木斯坐在一起的地方，他們曾在那裡爭吵，然後和好。但他沒有去想這些。他在聽克里斯托弗對學監簡報的總結，

“...and everybody knows Potter probably had something to do with it, but obviously there’s no proof because he’s basically a professional vandal, and everyone loves him, so he gets away with it. Even Lily Evans has given up, she never takes him to task like she used to.”
“……大家都知道波特可能參與了其中，但顯然沒有證據，因為他基本上是一個專業的破壞者，每個人都喜歡他，所以他得以逃脫。連莉莉·埃文斯也放棄了，她從不再像以前那樣追究他。”

“Oh, really?” Remus feigned interest, watching the back of Sirius’s armchair.
“哦，真的嗎？”雷木斯假裝感興趣，盯著天狼星的扶手椅背。

“Yeah,” Christopher nodded, “She’s gone soft on him. I even asked her what she thought should be done to punish the pranksters, and she actually giggled! She said it was actually quite funny, and as it hadn’t hurt anyone that I should lighten up! I used to really look up to her, you know.”
“是的，”克里斯托弗點了點頭，“她對他變得寬容了。我甚至問她應該怎麼處罰那些惡作劇者，她居然笑了！她說實際上還挺有趣的，而且因為沒有人受傷，所以我應該放輕鬆！你知道，我曾經非常崇拜她。”

“Maybe you should lighten up,” Remus sighed, “It does sound like it was funny. God knows we could all do with a laugh.”
“也許你應該放輕鬆，”雷木斯嘆了口氣，“聽起來確實有點有趣。上天知道我們都需要笑一笑。”

“Prefects are supposed to uphold all of the rules,” Christopher replied, an echo of McGonagall in his voice, “Not just the boring ones. Anyway, if that’s how you feel, I don’t know why I bother.”
“學監應該維護所有規則，”克里斯托弗回答，語氣中帶著麥格教授的回音，“不僅僅是那些無聊的規則。無論如何，如果你是這麼覺得，我不知道我為什麼要再費心。”

He started to get up,
他開始站起來，

“Chris,” Remus looked up at him, “C’mon, don’t be like that. I’ll quiz you on Runes if you like.”
“克里斯，”雷木斯抬頭看著他，“來吧，不要這樣。如果你願意，我可以考考你符文。”

“I don’t feel like it.” Christopher replied, snippily, “I’m going to bed.” He walked off, towards the dorms. Remus sighed again, and rubbed his eyes. He’d give it a few minutes then go up himself. It had been a trying sort of day.
“我不想。”克里斯托弗脾氣暴躁地回答，“我要去睡覺了。”他走向宿舍。雷木斯再次嘆了口氣，揉了揉眼睛。他會等幾分鐘再上去。今天真是令人疲憊的一天。

But of course, it wasn’t over. No sooner had Remus brushed his teeth and changed into his pyjamas, than Sirius had taken his opportunity. He was standing in the middle of the dorm room with a face like thunder, arms folded. Remus felt at a bit of a disadvantage, in his night things and bare feet, but he tried to remain stoic and nodded.
但當然，這一切還沒有結束。雷木斯剛刷完牙，換上睡衣，天狼星就抓住了機會。他站在宿舍的中央，臉色陰沉，雙臂抱胸。雷木斯感覺有些處於不利地位，穿著睡衣和赤腳，但他試圖保持冷靜，點了點頭。

“Hello, Sirius. I’m just going to bed.” He tried to walk towards his side of the room, but Sirius blocked him.
“你好，天狼星。我只是要去睡覺。”他試圖走向房間的一側，但天狼星擋住了他。

“You really pissed me off, you know that?” He said, furiously.
“你真的惹惱我了，你知道嗎？”他憤怒地說。

“Excuse me?” Remus reeled back, frowning. Sirius carried on, practically ranting.
“什麼？”雷木斯退縮，皺起了眉頭。天狼星繼續說，幾乎在咆哮。

“If you were trying to make me jealous, then I think it’s really bloody low of you, Remus.”
“如果你是想讓我嫉妒，那我覺得你真的太卑鄙了，雷木斯。”

Remus rolled his eyes, which he knew would rile Sirius up even more.
雷木斯翻了個白眼，他知道這會更加惹怒天狼星。

“Oh, of course .” He said, sarcastically, “Everything’s about you , isn’t it? For god’s sake, you weren’t even supposed to be there! Why didn’t you just leave with the rest of the group?!”
“哦，當然。”他諷刺地說，“一切都圍繞著你，是不是？天哪，你根本不應該在那裡！你為什麼不和其他人一起離開呢？！“

“I thought you’d want to go down to dinner together! How was I supposed to know you’ve been having secret trysts with that… that...”
“我以為你會想一起去吃晚餐！我怎麼知道你和那個……那個……”

“I haven’t been having ‘secret trysts’ with anyone but you , you idiot.” Remus spat, “And you’ve already made me regret that. Christopher is my friend, and either way it’s none of your bloody business, so keep your nose out!”
“我除了和你之外，根本沒和任何人有‘秘密私會’，你這個白痴。”雷木斯噴出來，“而且你已經讓我後悔了。克里斯托弗是我的朋友，無論如何這都是你的狗屁事，所以別再插手了！”

“Fine!” Sirius shouted, “If that’s what you want!”
“好！”天狼星大聲說，“如果這就是你想要的！”

“I said so, didn’t I?!”
“我不是說了嗎？！”

Remus was furious, so angry that he knew if he stayed much longer he’d say something he regretted. They both liked the last word in an argument, it was one of the only ways they were similar. As he had nowhere to go, he pushed past Sirius to his bed, and shut the curtains so vigorously that he almost ripped the rings from the frame.
雷木斯憤怒至極，他知道如果再待一會兒，他會說出後悔的話。他們倆都喜歡爭論中的最後一句話，這是他們唯一的相似之處。因為他無處可去，他推開了天狼星，走向自己的床，拉上窗簾的動作如此激烈，幾乎把窗簾環從框架上撕下來了。

In a few moments, he heard Sirius’s angry footsteps stomping back down the stairs. Well, Remus thought. If he didn’t get the message before, he’s got it now.
幾分鐘後，他聽到天狼星憤怒的腳步聲重重地踩下樓梯。好吧，雷木斯想。如果他之前沒明白，現在應該明白了。

Monday 4th April 1977

Inconveniently enough, the very first Apparition lesson of the year happened to fall on the April full moon. Remus was already intensely nervous - in that shaky, sweaty sort of way - about these lessons; add to that the challenge he usually had keeping his magic under control in the days preceding the moon, and he was sure it was a recipe for disaster.
1977年4月4日，星期一

非常不巧的是，這學年第一次幻影移動課恰好在四月滿月的那天。雷木斯已經對這些課程感到非常緊張——以那種顫抖、汗水淋漓的方式——再加上他通常在月亮來臨的幾天內控制魔力的挑戰，他確信這將是一場災難的配方。

“I might end up on the other side of the country!” He said in a low voice to Lily as they queued up outside the Great Hall.
“我可能會出現在全國另一端！”他低聲對莉莉說，當他們在大廳外排隊時。

“You can’t,” she assured him. “I asked Professor McGonagall; they’ve only lifted the anti-apparition measures on the hall, so I don’t think you can get outside it.”
“你不會的，”她向他保證。“我問了麥格教授；他們只解除了一些防幻影移動的措施，所以我覺得你不會出到外面去。”

“Really? Ok, that’s good.” He nodded, trying to calm himself. It had been unendingly useful, having Lily aware of the furry little problem. She was much better at common sense than James or Sirius.
“真的嗎？好的，那很好。”他點了點頭，試著讓自己平靜下來。有莉莉知道那個毛茸茸的小問題，真的非常有用。她比詹姆斯或天狼星更有常識。

“Anyway,” she whispered, “You should stop acting like it’s a bad thing, being extra strong sometimes. I’d have thought it was an advantage, especially for someone as clever as you.”
“無論如何，”她低聲說，“你應該停止把偶爾變得特別強大當成壞事。我會認為這是一種優勢，尤其是對於像你這樣聰明的人。”

That struck him in a funny way. No one had ever suggested he try to be positive about his problem before. Well, except for Livia. You don’t know half of the power you hold, Remus Lupin.
這讓他感到有點奇怪。沒有人曾經建議他對自己的問題保持積極。嗯，除了莉維亞。你不知道你擁有一半的力量，雷木斯·盧平。

Inside the hall, Professor McGonagall introduced the eager sixth and seventh years to the tall, spindly ministry official who was there to teach them apparition. Remus had, of course, done a fair bit of reading on the subject, and already knew about the ‘three d’s’, but he had rather hoped there would be more to it than that.
在大廳內，麥格教授向渴望學習的六年級和七年級學生介紹了那位高瘦的部委官員，他來這裡教他們幻影移動。雷木斯當然對這個主題做過相當多的閱讀，已經知道了“三個D”的概念，但他倒是希望能有更多的內容。

After much too little instruction, in Remus’s opinion, the students were given wooden hoops, asked to simply ‘have a go’. He caught Mary’s eye, as they carried their hoops to a free space. She pulled a bug-eyed face and he laughed, which earned a stern look from the instructor. Not wanting to make a bad impression, Remus re-focussed his attention on the hoop.
在雷木斯看來，指導的時間過於短暫，學生們被給了木圈，要求他們“試一試”。他與瑪莉對視，當他們把圈子帶到一個空位時。她做了個瞪眼的表情，他笑了，這讓指導者投來了嚴厲的目光。不想留下壞印象，雷木斯重新將注意力集中在木圈上。

It was very difficult to concentrate, when everyone around you was twirling on the spot, tripping and stumbling, like puppies being trained to roll over. Still, Remus closed his eyes and tried.
當你周圍的人都在原地旋轉，跌跌撞撞，就像小狗被訓練翻滾一樣，很難集中注意力。儘管如此，雷木斯閉上了眼睛，嘗試著。

Deliberation. Best not to take it too fast; like flying a broom. Slow and steady wins the race.
深思熟慮。最好不要太快；就像飛掃帚一樣。慢而穩贏得比賽。

Determination . He really, really wanted to beat Sirius.
決心。他真的很想超越天狼星。

Destination . The hoop wasn’t even that far away. He’d side-alonged further, that time with Mr Potter.
目的地。那個圈子離得並不遠。他那次與波特先生一起側面轉移過去。

Remus tried to recall how that had felt. The magic, pulling him forward - no, more like… more like following a channel, like water swirling down a bathtub drain; if you pressed your fingertips against the holes you could feel the vacuum sucking… it was a bit like that.
雷木斯試著回憶那種感覺。魔法把他向前拉——不，更多的是……更像是跟隨一個渠道，就像水在浴缸排水口旋轉；如果你用指尖按壓那些孔，你能感覺到真空在吸……就是這樣的感覺。

“BOLLOCKS!” A shout went up, causing a lapse in Remus’s concentration. He opened his eyes in time to see James and Sirius sitting dazed on floor, staring at each other confused, rubbing their heads. Oh no, Remus thought, did they do it, already?
“該死！”一聲呼喊打斷了雷木斯的專注。他及時睜開眼睛，看到詹姆斯和天狼星茫然地坐在地上，互相困惑地盯著對方，揉著頭。哦不，雷木斯想，他們已經成功了嗎？

“Idiots.” Mary laughed. Everyone else was laughing too, and Sirius was looking extremely put out, as he climbed to his feet and dusted off his robes with a dignified sniff.
“蠢貨。”瑪莉笑了。其他人也在笑，天狼星看起來非常不高興，他站起來，輕輕拍了拍他的袍子，帶著優雅的嗅聲。

“What happened?” Remus asked.
“發生了什麼事？”雷木斯問。

“They both jumped at the same time and hit each other.” She snorted. “Silly buggers. I’m not feeling anything, are you?”
“他們倆同時跳起來撞到了一起。”她哼了一聲。“傻子。我沒感覺到任何東西，你呢？”

Remus shook his head. He closed his eyes again and concentrated as hard as he could, feeling for whatever it was that would pull him in the right way. He thought he had it, tried twirling, but got nowhere. At least he didn’t fall over.
雷木斯搖了搖頭。他再次閉上眼睛，盡力集中精力，感受能把他拉到正確方向的東西。他覺得自己找到了，試著旋轉，但沒有任何進展。至少他沒有摔倒。

Something wasn’t right. This was like the stupid patronus thing all over again (he still hadn’t managed one; he was one of the only ones who hadn’t. Even Peter had produced a wispy bit of silver.) Only the trick to that was having a happy thought - and Remus accepted that happy thoughts were not his forte. This , however, this required determination. And wasn’t he determined?
有些地方不對勁。這就像是那愚蠢的護法問題一樣（他仍然沒能成功；他是少數未能做到的之一。甚至彼得都產生了一絲銀光。）只是那個技巧是要有一個快樂的想法——而雷木斯接受快樂的想法並不是他的長處。然而，這需要決心。難道他不決心嗎？

Just then, the ministry sanctioned apparition instructor wafted past, and Remus caught a whiff of his magic. It was peculiar and strong - buzzing. It reminded him of the way that the old TV in the rec room at St Edmund’s gathered a fuzz of static on the screen. As a child, Remus had held his hands up to it in wonder, and stroked the bizarre, otherworldly energy, as if he could absorb it
就在這時，經部批准的幻影移動指導者輕輕走過，雷木斯嗅到他的魔法氣息。那種氣息奇特而強烈——嗡嗡作響。這讓他想起了聖埃德蒙德的休息室裡的老電視屏幕上的靜電。作為一個孩子，雷木斯曾經好奇地把手伸向它，撫摸那種奇異的、來自異世界的能量，好像他能夠吸收它。

There was a snap in Remus’s mind, like ice cracking. That was it! Remus relaxed his body. He didn’t have to look for the right channel, or try to feel it out - he could already feel it. The room was full of magic, thick and iron-like and hot-cold against his teeth. He could always sense it, he just learnt to tune it out over the years. That was harder to do on a full moon, but in this scenario, that might not be a disadvantage, as Lily had said…
雷木斯的心靈中發出了一聲脆響，就像冰裂開了一樣。就是這樣！雷木斯放鬆了身體。他不需要尋找正確的頻道，或試圖感受它——他已經能感覺到它了。房間裡充滿了魔法，濃厚而像鐵一樣，冷熱交替地碰觸著他的牙齒。他總是能感覺到它，只是多年的經驗讓他學會了忽視它。在滿月時，這會更難做到，但在這種情況下，這可能不是劣勢，正如莉莉所說……

He closed his eyes, breathed in, and moved - it felt like only the slightest twitch, a wand flick, or the quirk of an eyebrow. He let the magic do all the work, and when he opened his eyes with a gasp, he was inside the hoop.
他閉上眼睛，吸了一口氣，然後移動——感覺就像是最輕微的抽搐、手杖的一揮，或是眉毛的一挑。他讓魔法做所有的工作，當他驚呼著睜開眼睛時，他已經在圈子內了。

“Bravo!” The instructor was clapping his spindly hands together delicately, noiselessly.
“好極了！”指導者輕柔地拍著瘦長的手。

“Nice one, Moony!” James called across the room, a large, egg shaped bruised growing on his forehead.
“做得好，月亮！”詹姆斯在房間的另一邊叫道，他的額頭上長了一個大大的、蛋形的瘀傷。

“Well done , Remus!” The girls cheered.
“做得好，雷木斯！”女孩們歡呼道。

Remus looked at his feet, embarrassed, but thrilled.
雷木斯低頭看著自己的腳，感到尷尬，但也很興奮。

 

 

Friday 15th April 1977

By mid-April, there seemed to be no limits to Remus’s newfound confidence. He was cautious about it, of course - he didn’t tell anybody (perish the thought!) in case they might think him arrogant, or even worse - dangerous. But he knew that something had changed. For many years now, Remus had considered his lycanthropy, and the uncontrollable feelings and senses which arose from it, as a limitation on his magic. If the past few weeks were anything to go by - this had been incorrect.
到四月中旬，雷木斯的新信心似乎沒有界限。當然，他對此非常謹慎——他沒有告訴任何人（真是可怕的想法！），以防他們會認為他傲慢，甚至更糟——危險。但他知道某些東西已經改變了。多年間，雷木斯一直把他的狼人症和由此產生的無法控制的情感和感官視為魔法的限制。如果過去幾周有任何參考價值，那就是這種看法是錯誤的。

Perhaps this misunderstanding was simply due to the fact that too little study had been done on werewolves in the wizarding world. Or perhaps Livia had been right - Remus had been instructed by the wrong people all along.
也許這種誤解只是因為在魔法世界中對狼人研究得太少。或者也許莉維亞是對的——雷木斯一直受到錯誤人士的指導。

Now, in private, he carried out various experiments, from simple, basic spells, to much more complex transfiguration and transmutation. All of them came much easier when he relaxed, when he harnessed whatever magic was already there in the space around him. Before, casting a spell had felt like drawing water up from a well inside him, a heavy bucket on a winch. After the apparition discovery, he felt as though he had been standing in a lake all along - and all he needed to do was drink. He had even begun to make steps towards wordless magic.
現在，私下裡，他進行了各種實驗，從簡單的基本咒語，到更複雜的變形和變質。當他放鬆身心，利用周圍空間中已經存在的魔法時，一切變得容易多了。以前，施展咒語就像是從他體內的井裡抽水，沉重的桶在滑輪上。發現幻影移動後，他感覺就像是一直站在湖中——他所需要做的只是喝水。他甚至開始朝著無言魔法邁進了一步。

In the meantime, he had exams to prepare for, and while his newfound strength would certainly be useful in his practical exams, Remus still had to complete several written papers. On this particular afternoon, he had convinced James (and by extension, Peter) to revise along with him. It was a bright spring day, and the last chills of winter had eked out enough that they all agreed it would be nice to sit outside for a change.
與此同時，他還有考試要準備，雖然他新發現的力量在實際考試中肯定會有用，但雷木斯仍然需要完成幾篇書面報告。在這個特定的下午，他說服了詹姆斯（以及彼得）一起複習。這是一個明亮的春天，冬天的最後寒意已經消退，他們都同意換個環境坐在外面會很好。

They sprawled on the grass, books open, James reading with his tongue between his teeth and a quill behind his ear, Peter half-heartedly jotting down notes on hinkypunks.
他們攤開在草地上，書本攤開著，詹姆斯在閱讀時把舌頭夾在牙齒之間，耳朵後面夾著一支羽毛筆，彼得心不在焉地在hinkypunks上記筆記。

“It’s not fair,” he whinged, “It’s not NEWTs or OWLs this year, why’ve we got to do exams at all?”
“這不公平，”他抱怨道，“今年不是NEWTS或OWLs，為什麼我們還要考試？”

“Wouldn’t want you to lose your edge, Wormy,” James replied, still engrossed in his book. “Think of it as practice for NEWTs.”
“可不想讓你失去你的鋒芒，蟲子，”詹姆斯回答，仍然專注於他的書。“把它當作NEWTs的練習吧。”

“Rather not.” Peter pulled a face. “Moony, do you have the notes for--”
“我才不想呢。”彼得做了個鬼臉。“月亮，你有——”

“Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.” Remus said, promptly, not looking up from his DADA essay.
“星期二、星期四和星期日。”雷木斯迅速說道，沒有抬起頭來看他的DADA論文。

“What?” Peter scratched his head.
“什麼？”彼得抓了抓頭。

“Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.” Remus repeated. “Those are the days I hold my study groups, and those are the days I help other people with their work. I need the rest of the time to catch up with my own stuff.”
“星期二、星期四和星期日。”雷木斯重複道。“那些是我召開學習小組的日子，也是我幫助其他人完成工作的日子。我需要其他時間來趕上自己的進度。”

“Oh, but I’m your best friend,” Peter moaned, “Pleeease, Moony?”
“哦，但我是你最好的朋友，”彼得哀求道，“拜託，月亮？”

“Less time snogging Dorcas, more time organising your notes.” Remus smirked. It was very easy to be pious when you weren’t allowed to snog the people you wanted to snog. Speaking of which.
“少花點時間親吻多卡斯，多花點時間整理你的筆記。”雷木斯冷笑道。當你不被允許親吻你想親吻的人時，很容易變得虔誠。說到這個。

“All right, lads?” Sirius came sauntering across the lawn towards them, Emmeline trotting along behind him. James looked up and grinned, Peter moved to make a space.
“好吧，小夥子們？”天狼星一邊走向他們，一邊悠閒地穿過草地，艾梅琳在他身後跟著。詹姆斯抬起頭來，露出了笑容，彼得則移動到一邊騰出空間。

“Where’ve you been?” James asked, “Never see you these days.”
“你去哪了？”詹姆斯問，“這些日子從未見過你。”

“Not my fault you’ve become one of them, prefect Potter.” Sirius replied, coolly, “I had detention.”
“這不是我的錯，你變成了他們中的一員，學監波特。”天狼星冷冷地回道，“我有留校察看。”

“You’re in detention more often than I’m doing anything prefect-ish,” James countered, no longer reading his book, now back in marauder mode. He nodded at Emmeline, who sat primly beside Sirius, smoothing her skirt down, “All right, Em?”
“你留校察看的頻率比我做任何學監的事情還要高，”詹姆斯反駁道，不再讀書，現在回到了土匪模式。他點了點坐在天狼星旁邊、端莊地撫平裙子的艾梅琳，“好吧，艾？”

“Hi James,” she smiled back at him, “Peter, Remus. Are you all revising?”
“嗨，詹姆斯，”她對他微笑道，“彼得，雷木斯。你們都在複習嗎？”

“Unfortunately,” Peter groaned. “Moony’s not helping me, though.”
“不幸的是，”彼得抱怨道，“月亮不幫我。”

“Oh, help yourself, for once,” Remus snapped, no longer lightly teasing.
“哦，自己動手吧，”雷木斯斥道，不再輕鬆地取笑。

“I think it’s a good idea,” Emmeline said, encouragingly, “Get it out of the way before Hogsmeade this weekend. I think it’s responsible, don’t you, Sirius?”
“我覺得這是個好主意，”艾梅琳鼓勵道，“在這個周末的霍格斯密德之前先解決這些問題。我覺得這是負責任的，你覺得呢，天狼星？”

“S’pose.”
“是吧。”

“Speaking of,” she continued, ignoring his brush off, “What do you fancy doing in Hogsmeade? Will I meet you there, or will you pick me up outside my common room?”
“說到這個，”她繼續說，忽略了他的敷衍，“你想在霍格斯密德做什麼？我會在那裡遇見你，還是你會在我的公共休息室外接我？”

“Ugh, I dunno. Why’s it have to be a big deal?”
“唉，我不知道。為什麼這一定要是一件大事？”

Peter, despite his earlier despair, suddenly became fascinated by his DADA notes, head bowed over the parchment.
儘管彼得之前很絕望，但他突然對他的DADA筆記產生了興趣，低頭看著羊皮紙。

“Other boys don’t mind making plans to take their girlfriends out,” Emmeline said, her voice edging on shrill. This was clearly old ground for them.
“其他男孩不介意制定計劃帶女朋友出去，”艾梅琳說，聲音有點尖銳。這顯然是他們之間的老問題。

Like Peter, James and Remus began to concentrate on their books and notes as if their lives depended on it. Sirius and Emmeline carried on bickering regardless.
像彼得一樣，詹姆斯和雷木斯開始專注於他們的書本和筆記，就像他們的生命依賴於此一樣。天狼星和艾梅琳無論如何仍然在爭吵。

“I’m not other boys,” Sirius growled, “I thought you liked that.”
“我不是其他男孩，”天狼星咆哮道，“我以為你喜歡這樣。”

“So did I.” She shot back.
“我也這麼覺得。”她反駁道。

“So, what? I’m a terrible boyfriend because I don’t want to trail around after you like some soppy git?”
“那又怎麼樣？我是一個糟糕的男朋友，因為我不想像個傻子一樣跟在你身後？”

“That’s not what I’m asking and you know it!”
“這不是我在問的，你知道的！”

“Stop complaining then.”
“那就別抱怨了。”

“I’m not compl--”
“我不是在抱怨——”

“Sounds like it. Moan moan moan.”
“聽起來像。抱怨，抱怨，抱怨。”

Emmeline opened and closed her mouth a few times, clearly wanting to say something back, but not wanting it to sound like moaning. Finally, she sat in silence, staring at the ground. Her eyes looked a bit brighter than usual, and Remus finally felt himself softening towards her. Poor girl.
艾梅琳幾次張嘴又閉嘴，顯然想要回應，但不想讓它聽起來像是在抱怨。最終，她靜靜地坐著，盯著地面。她的眼睛看起來比平常亮了一點，雷木斯終於感覺到自己對她變得柔和。可憐的女孩。

“Oh Merlin, don’t sulk.” Sirius complained at her silence. “If you’re angry then let's have a fight, if you’re ok then give us a snog – but please don’t sulk.”
“哦，梅林，別鬱悶了。”天狼星對她的沉默抱怨道。“如果你生氣，那就打起來；如果你沒事，那就親吻一下——但請不要鬱悶。”

“Ugh, and those are the only two options with you, aren’t they, Sirius?!” Emmeline snapped, climbing to her feet and folding her arms across her chest.
“唉，你只有這兩個選擇，對吧，天狼星？！”艾梅琳尖銳地說，站起來雙臂抱在胸前。

“Yep.” He replied, grinning that Sirius Black grin.
“是的。”他回答道，露出天狼星·布萊克的笑容。

“Oh!” She threw her hands up and stormed away, back towards the castle.
“哦！”她舉起手來，怒氣沖沖地朝城堡走去。

Once she was gone, there was only the uncomfortable silence left. James cleared his throat.
她一走，剩下的只有尷尬的沉默。詹姆斯清了清喉嚨。

“Not very nice, Pads.” He said over his textbook. “She’s upset now.”
“這不太好，帕茲。”他在書本上說，“她現在很不高興。”

“She’s always upset,” Sirius whined, “What about my feelings?”
“她總是很不高興，”天狼星抱怨道，“我的感受呢？”

“I’m not convinced you have any.” James said, without missing a beat. “What do you think, Moony?”
“我不相信你有感情。”詹姆斯毫不猶豫地說，“你怎麼看，月亮？”

Remus glanced up from his own book, hoping he looked harassed and uninterested – as if he hadn’t been paying rapt attention.
雷木斯從自己的書本上抬起頭來，希望自己看起來很困擾和不感興趣——好像他沒有全神貫注地注意。

“Hm?”
“嗯？”

“Does Padfoot have feelings?”
“帕德富特有感情嗎？”

Sirius caught his eye. Remus straightened his back, looked away.
天狼星看向他。雷木斯挺直了背，轉過頭去。

“Definitely not.”
“肯定沒有。”

Sirius stood up without a word, and left.
天狼星一言不發地站起來，離開了。

“Sirius? Oi!” James stood, but Sirius did not look back. James scratched his head, sitting back down uneasily. He was thoughtful for a moment before looking at Remus. “Moony… is something going on between you two?”
“天狼星？喂！”詹姆斯站起來，但天狼星沒有回頭。詹姆斯抓了抓頭，重新坐下，顯得不安。他想了一會兒，才看向雷木斯。“月亮……你們兩個之間發生了什麼嗎？”

Remus glared at him.
雷木斯瞪了他一眼。

“Ask him!”
“去問他！”

“I did. He won’t say anything.”
“我問了。他什麼都不說。”

“…really?” Remus was genuinely surprised. He’d been half certain Sirius had told him every filthy detail. He must really be ashamed.
“……真的嗎？”雷木斯真心感到驚訝。他曾半信半疑地以為天狼星已經告訴他每一個骯髒的細節。他一定真的很羞愧。

“Really.” James was looking at him very intensely now, “What’s going on?”
“真的。”詹姆斯現在非常認真地看著他，“發生了什麼事？”

“I… I slept with Mary.” At least it was true. Peter made an odd sort gasp, beside him, but Remus ignored it. “He found out, that’s all.”
“我……我和瑪麗上了床。”至少這是真的。彼得在他身旁發出了一種奇怪的喘息聲，但雷木斯忽略了它。“他知道了，就這樣。”

“You… what?!” James eyebrows shot up in unmasked surprise. He quickly rearranged his features, clearing his throat, “Oh, well good on you, mate. I had no idea you and she…”
“你……什麼？！”詹姆斯的眉毛驚訝地挑了起來。他迅速整理了一下神情，清了清喉嚨，“哦，嗯，你做得好，伙計。我完全不知道你和她……”

“Just a one off thing.” Remus said, quickly.
“只是一次性的事情。”雷木斯迅速地說。

“Ok. Right, well. Why’s Sirius in a mood about it? He and Mary broke up ages ago.”
“好吧。那麼，為什麼天狼星對此情緒不好？他和瑪麗很早就分手了。”

“Yeah.” Remus replied, glumly. He sighed, “Oh, go on then, Pete, borrow my notes. Which bit are you stuck on?”
“是的。”雷木斯沮喪地回答。他嘆了口氣，“哦，那就拿去吧，彼得，借我的筆記。你卡在了哪一部分？”

 

Chapter 113: Sixth Year: The Box 

The quidditch stands on a Sunday were one of the only places you were guaranteed some peace and quiet at Hogwarts. Remus had been going there every week since his birthday to catch the tail end of James’s spartan training sessions, and to have a flying lesson of his own, afterwards.
魁地奇看台在星期天是霍格沃茨唯一能保證安靜的地方之一。自從他的生日以來，雷木斯每週都會去那裡，抓住詹姆斯艱苦訓練課程的尾聲，然後自己上飛行課。

This morning, however, as he limped into the stands, he found that he was not alone.
然而，今天早上，當他一瘸一拐地走進看台時，他發現自己並不孤單。

“Hiya, Lily,” Remus beamed, surprised, “What are you doing here?”
“嗨，莉莉，”雷木斯驚訝地笑道，“你怎麼在這裡？”

Lily spun around and blinked at him, mouth open in a small pink ‘O’, as if she had not expected anyone else. Her eyes darted to the pitch, then back to Remus nervously, and she gave a sheepish grin,
莉莉轉過身來，瞪著他，嘴巴張成一個小小的粉紅色‘O’，彷彿她沒有預料到其他人。她的目光在場地和雷木斯之間來回跳動，神色緊張地露出一個害羞的微笑，

“Hi! Er… just watching Marls practice. Moral support and all that.”
“嗨！嗯……只是來看瑪琳的練習。道義上的支持和那些。”

“Oh, right. Mind if I join you?”
“哦，對了。我可以加入你嗎？”

She smiled and shifted her bag, as if to make room for him, though the stands were completely empty. They sat quietly and watched the practice for a bit. James was drilling the chasers and the keeper, so only half the team was there today. Remus vaguely remembered James’s ‘focus sessions’ initiative, which had come as a relief to the rest of the Gryffindor team, as it meant they didn’t actually have to practice every day, even if James did.
她微笑著，移動了一下她的包，好像要給他騰出空間，儘管看台上完全空無一人。他們靜靜地坐著，看了一會兒練習。詹姆斯在訓練追球手和守門員，所以今天只有一半的隊伍在那裡。雷木斯模糊地記得詹姆斯的‘專注訓練’倡議，這讓格蘭芬多的其他隊員鬆了一口氣，因為這意味著他們不必每天都練習，即使詹姆斯需要。

“Er… Lily?” Remus said, after a while, “Did you know that Marlene isn’t practicing today?”
“嗯……莉莉？”雷木斯過了一會兒說，“你知道瑪琳今天不練習嗎？”

She looked down at her knees, her hair falling in a coppery sheet in front of her face.
她低頭看著她的膝蓋，頭髮垂落在她的臉前，如銅色的布料一般。

“Yes.” She whispered.
“是的。”她輕聲說。

“So you’re here to watch…?”
“所以你來這裡是為了看……？”

“Don’t make me say it , Remus,” she sounded defeated. She raised her head, pushing her hair behind her ear, “Go on then, let me have it.”
“別讓我說出來，雷木斯，”她聽起來很沮喪。她抬起頭，將頭髮推到耳朵後面，“那就說吧，讓我聽聽。”

“What?!” Remus was amused. Prefect Lily Evans, all come undone. Sirius would love it.
“什麼？！”雷木斯感到好笑。學生會長莉莉·艾文斯，完全崩潰了。天狼星會喜歡這樣的。

“Tease me, make fun of me, tell me I’m a complete idiot…” she sighed, looking out at the pitch, “I already know.”
“嘲笑我，取笑我，告訴我我是個完全的傻瓜……”她嘆了口氣，望向場地，“我已經知道了。”

“I don’t think you’re an idiot just for fancying James.” Remus laughed, nudging her jovially, “But… I mean, it is a bit funny, after all this time.”
“我不認為你只是因為喜歡詹姆斯而成為傻瓜。”雷木斯笑了，愉快地碰了碰她，“但是……我的意思是，畢竟這麼長時間，確實有點好笑。”

“Ugh, I know.” She groaned, “I can’t bloody believe it.”
“唉，我知道。”她抱怨道，“我真不敢相信。”

“Does he know?”
“他知道嗎？”

“No!” She stared at him in disbelief, “I’d absolutely die !”
“沒有！”她瞪著他，難以置信，“我一定會死的！”

“Why?!” Remus laughed again, “You don’t honestly think he’ll turn you down? He’s been hoping for this exact thing for five years!”
“為什麼？！”雷木斯再次笑了，“你真的不覺得他會拒絕你嗎？他已經期待這個準確的事情五年了！”

“Exactly!” She said, gesturing wildly with her hands, spreading out her fingers in a show of exasperation. “He’s wanted it forever, and I’ve only wanted it for… er… well maybe a little while, actually… but nowhere near as long. If I give in now, he’s so intense . I might break his heart.”
“正是如此！”她說，揮舞著手，手指張開表現出沮喪。“他永遠想要這個，而我只想要……嗯……其實可能也只是一小段時間……但遠不及那麼久。如果我現在讓步，他那麼強烈。我可能會傷他的心。”

She bit her lip, still watching him flying, blowing his whistle and pointing emphatically at the goal rings.
她咬了咬嘴唇，仍然看著他飛行，吹著口哨，強調地指著球門圈。

“You might.” Remus agreed, “But I think James Potter would consider it an honour to have his heart broken by you.”
“你可能會。”雷木斯同意道，“但我覺得詹姆斯·波特會把被你傷心當作一種榮譽。”

She snorted,
她嗤之以鼻，

“Remus, honestly, you sound as bad as he does. I’m not this… I dunno, perfect ‘dream girl’ who’s going breeze into his life and make all the crap stuff wonderful. It’s not a fairytale. I’m not a fairytale. I’m really annoying. I’m a complete mess in the mornings - ask Mary - and I hate losing arguments, and I shout when I’m angry, and my nose runs when I cry. I don’t know anything about quidditch and I don’t really want to learn, either.”
“雷木斯，說真的，你聽起來跟他一樣糟。我不是那種……我也不知道，完美的‘夢中女孩’，會輕鬆地進入他的生活，讓一切變得美好。這不是童話故事。我不是童話故事。我真的很煩人。我早晨完全是一團糟——問瑪麗——我討厭輸掉爭論，生氣時會吼叫，哭的時候鼻子會流鼻涕。我對魁地奇一無所知，也不想學。”

“So?” Remus smiled. “I’m pretty sure he knows most of that. If he doesn’t then I don’t think it’ll hurt for him to find out. Anyway, it’s not as if James is perfect. I’ve smelled his socks.”
“那又怎麼樣？”雷木斯微笑道，“我很確定他知道大部分這些。如果他不知道，那我覺得他知道也無妨。反正詹姆斯也不是完美的。我聞過他的襪子。”

Lily laughed.
莉莉笑了。

“Thanks, Remus.”
“謝謝你，雷木斯。”

“Going to tell him?”
“打算告訴他嗎？”

She wrinkled her freckled nose.
她皺了皺帶雀斑的鼻子。

“Nah. Want to think about it a bit more first.”
“嗯。不過想再考慮一下。”

“Just going to stare at him riding his broom for hours on end?”
“就這樣盯著他騎著掃帚幾個小時？”

She shoved him, laughing,
她推了推他，笑著，

“If I want to! He’s easy on the eye, what can I say?” She poked out her tongue and returned to gawping. Remus smiled, and dredged up the only real piece of advice he had.
“如果我想的話！他看起來很不錯，我還能說什麼？”她伸出舌頭，繼續盯著看。雷木斯微笑著，提出了他唯一真正的建議。

“Don’t leave it too long. It gets harder, the longer you wait.”
“不要拖得太久。等待越久，就越困難。”

Lily looked at him, curiously, and Remus instantly regretted saying anything.
莉莉好奇地看著他，雷木斯立刻後悔說了什麼。

“Oh yeah?” She said, “You seem very wise in the ways of love, all of a sudden.”
“哦，是嗎？”她說，“你突然變得非常懂得戀愛的智慧。”

“Nah.” He laughed, he hoped convincingly, “I just read lots.”
“沒有。”他笑道，希望顯得說服力十足，“我只是讀了很多書。”

“I could have given you all of my heart,
But there’s someone who’s torn it apart.
And he’s taken nearly all that I have got,
But if you want I’ll try to love again…”

“Black, next time you decide to break someone’s heart, can you do it outside of the exam period?” Lily groaned as Sirius entered the common room and every radio, turntable and gramophone within twenty metres began blaring PP Arnold’s tragedy stricken voice.
“布萊克，下次你決定傷害別人的心時，可以在考試期間外做嗎？”當天狼星進入公共休息室時，每個收音機、唱片機和留聲機在二十米內都開始大聲播放PP·阿諾德悲劇性的聲音，莉莉抱怨道。

“Baby I’ll try to love again, but I know…
The first cut is the deepest…”

“What d’you want me to do about it?!” Sirius raged, storming about the room, trying to mute every speaker in sight.
“我能怎麼辦？！”天狼星怒火中燒，怒氣沖沖地在房間裡奔波，試圖靜音所有能見到的喇叭。

It had been a painful, drawn out melodrama, but Emmeline and Sirius had finally split. And apparently nobody treated Emmeline Vance like that, so in retaliation, she had placed a very advanced hex on him, which meant that every time he entered a room breakup songs began to play. This was usually limited to music players, but occasionally, when there was nothing else about, the portraits had begun to burst into song too.
這是一場痛苦而漫長的情感劇，但艾蜜琳和天狼星終於分手了。顯然沒有人會像那樣對待艾蜜琳·范斯，因此作為報復，她對他施下了一個非常高級的詛咒，每次他進入房間時，分手歌曲就會開始播放。這通常僅限於音樂播放器，但偶爾當周圍沒有其他設備時，畫作也會開始歌唱。

“Just apologise to her and get the bloody spell lifted!” Lily replied.
“只要向她道歉，解除那該死的咒語！”莉莉回應道。

“Cuz when it comes to being lucky, he’s cursed,
when it comes to lovin’ me, he’s worst…”

“I’ve got nothing to apologise for!” He spat back, forcefully, “ Silencio ! Silencio silencio , SILENCIO !”
“我沒什麼好道歉的！”他激烈地反駁，“沉默！沉默，沉默，沉默！”

The music finally stopped. Who knew for how long. Remus didn’t get involved, he could only make it worse, and Sirius had been in a foul mood all week.
音樂終於停止了。不知道會持續多久。雷木斯沒有插手，他只能讓事情變得更糟，天狼星整周都心情不好。

“Got to give it to the girl,” Mary mused. “She’s creative.” She was straddling Marlene, who lay on her front on the rug, Mary plaiting her long blonde hair. Every time she got to the end, she would unravel it all, comb it out gently, and begin again. Sometimes Remus didn’t think he’d ever understand girls. Still, Marlene, who usually hated being fussed over, seemed to be quite enjoying it, she looked very peaceful.
“得說那女孩很厲害，”瑪麗感慨道，“她真有創意。”她跨坐在瑪琳身上，瑪琳趴在地毯上，瑪麗編著她那長長的金髮。每次編到末端，她就會把頭髮解開，輕輕梳理，然後重新開始。有時候雷木斯覺得他永遠也無法理解女孩。不過，瑪琳，通常討厭被人擺弄的人，似乎相當享受，她看起來非常平靜。

“Oh yeah, go on, take her side, you lot. Bloody women.” Sirius threw himself into the armchair opposite Lily and slouched into it, glaring at the fire. “Anyone got a fag?”
“哦，是啊，繼續支持她，你們這些人。該死的女人。”天狼星把自己扔進莉莉對面的扶手椅，懶散地靠在椅子上，瞪著火焰。“有人有煙嗎？”

Remus did, but he didn’t say anything.
雷木斯有，但他沒有說什麼。

“Not surprised she dumped you,” Mary grinned, “You’re a miserable git these days. I’m well shot of you.” She gave him a joking wink, and his frown diminished.
“她把你甩了我一點也不驚訝，”瑪麗笑著說，“你最近真是個令人厭煩的傢伙。我已經徹底厭倦了你。”她給了他一個調皮的眨眼，他的皺眉減少了。

“You love me really,” he muttered.
“你其實愛我，”他嘟囔道。

“Let’s talk about something else.” Marlene said, from the floor. “Not exams or bloody relationships. Potter, what’s going on with this camping trip?”
“我們聊點別的吧。”瑪琳在地板上說。“不是考試或該死的感情問題。波特，這次露營旅行怎麼樣了？”

“All sorted - you lot just need to show up,” James grinned, “With your tents, obviously.”
“一切都整理好了——你們只需要來就行了，”詹姆斯笑著說，“當然，要帶上你們的帳篷。”

“Dad says I can borrow the family ones, as long as I take care of them,” Lily said, “Two two-sleepers.”
“爸爸說我可以借用家裡的帳篷，只要我好好照顧它們，”莉莉說，“兩個雙人帳篷。”

“Cosy.” Sirius said, sarcastically, “With seven of us going.”
“溫馨。”天狼星諷刺地說，“我們有七個人去。”

“Eight,” Peter piped up, “James said I could bring Dorcas.”
“八個人，”彼得插話道，“詹姆斯說我可以帶多卡斯。”

Remus groaned inwardly at that. Not that he didn’t like Dorcas; Dorcas was fine. But he had been looking forward to a summer holiday with all of his closest friends, not tag-alongs. Thank goodness Mary wasn’t bringing her latest boyfriend. Though, with Mary, the turnover was too fast to make any kind of long term plans.
雷木斯在心裡抱怨。不是他不喜歡多卡斯；多卡斯很好。但他一直期待著與所有親密朋友一起度過暑假，而不是帶上其他人。謝天謝地瑪麗沒有帶她最新的男朋友。儘管如此，瑪麗的男朋友更替太快，無法做任何長期計劃。

“Well I was rather hoping that you boys would bring your own tent, actually.” Lily replied, giving Sirius a frosty look.
“其實我還是希望你們這些男孩能帶上自己的帳篷。”莉莉回應道，給了天狼星一個冷漠的眼神。

“Mum said in her last letter that there’s a muggle camping supply shop in our village,” James said, quickly, ever the peacemaker, “So we’ll all go at get ours as soon as we’re home. You’re definitely coming to stay, this summer, right Moony?”
“媽媽在她的最後一封信中說我們村裡有一家麻瓜露營用品商店，”詹姆斯迅速說道，作為調解者，“所以我們回家後會去那裡買。你今年夏天一定會來住，對吧，月亮？”

“If it’s still ok?” Remus asked, anxiously. He still didn’t have a plan b. Maybe James would let him keep one of the tents afterwards. Ugh, what a depressing thought.
“如果還可以的話？”雷木斯焦急地問。他仍然沒有備選計劃。也許詹姆斯會讓他之後保留其中一個帳篷。唉，多麼令人沮喪的想法。

“Of course,” James grinned magnanimously, rubbing his hands together, “This summer is going to be great .”
“當然，”詹姆斯大方地笑道，搓著手，“這個夏天會很棒的。”

“How are we getting to Cornwall?” Marlene asked. “Apparating?”
“我們怎麼去康沃爾？”瑪琳問道。“使用瞬間移動？”

“If we’ve all passed, yeah.”
“如果我們都通過了，是的。”

They looked at Peter, guiltily. He’d still not quite managed to get anywhere without splinching himself, yet.
他們愧疚地看著彼得。他仍然沒能成功地瞬移到任何地方，經常會出現瞬間分裂的情況。

“I’m really trying,” he said, embarrassed. “I could get the Knight Bus?”
“我真的在努力，”他尷尬地說，“我可以搭乘騎士巴士嗎？”

“It’ll be fine,” James said, cheerily. “I promise. Best summer ever.”
“會沒事的，”詹姆斯愉快地說，“我保證。會是最棒的夏天。”

 

Mother

You had me

But I never had you

I wanted you

You didn’t want me.

 

Friday 24th June 1977And really, Remus thought to himself, as he left his last exam of the term - Care of Magical Creatures, written - thank goodness for James’s eternal optimism. It was one of the only things that kept any of them going, these days.
真的，雷木斯在離開學期的最後一門考試——《魔法生物護理》，筆試時對自己說——多虧了詹姆斯那永不熄滅的樂觀精神。這是目前唯一能讓他們堅持下去的東西之一。

Exams were the same as they ever had been - easier, maybe, at least when it came to practical magic. Fortunately no one expected a patronus this year. There was something reassuring about a timetable, though, and deadlines and timed exercises. It all made good common sense, and didn’t encourage too much independent thought. Remus was always grateful for an opportunity to switch off his brain. Especially as he had set himself a very personal deadline of his own.
考試和以往一樣——也許在實踐魔法方面更簡單了。幸好今年沒有人期待護法咒。儘管如此，時間表、截止日期和限時練習還是有種安慰感。這一切都很符合常識，也不會鼓勵太多的獨立思考。雷木斯總是感激能有機會讓大腦放空。尤其是他自己給自己設定了一個非常個人的截止日期。

Once his final exam was over (and today was the day), he would open the shoebox. It had been sitting under his bed for the better part of three months now. He had not so much as glanced at it. Whatever was in it would be disruptive, he knew that. Even if it was nothing more than some boring notes from Matron, old school work or something, he knew that just thinking about the whole St Edmund’s problem was going to drag him down eventually. He told himself that it was very sensible and mature; he needed a clear head for exams.
一旦最後的考試結束（而今天就是那一天），他會打開那個鞋盒。它已經在他的床下放了差不多三個月了。他甚至沒看過它一眼。他知道裡面會有一些擾人的東西。即使只是一些來自院長的無聊筆記，舊的學校作業或其他什麼，他也知道僅僅是想到整個聖埃德蒙德的問題最終會把他拖下來。他告訴自己這是非常明智和成熟的；他需要清晰的頭腦來應對考試。

But it was late June now, and he had nothing left to do. Of course, there was always something to do - NEWTs would begin in earnest next year; he ought to get a head start. There was talk about an end of year party, and he could start preparing for that. He really ought to catch up on his reading for Madam Pomfrey’s healing classes, too; he was woefully behind on bruises.
但現在已經是六月底了，他沒有其他事情可做。當然，總有事情要做——NEWTS將在明年正式開始；他應該提前準備。還有關於年終派對的討論，他可以開始準備這個。他真的應該趕上對波姆弗雷夫人的療愈課程的閱讀；他在瘀傷方面明顯落後了。

He ate lunch first. Unpleasant experiences were generally better faced on a full stomach. There were exams scheduled that afternoon for Muggle Studies and Divination - both of which James and Sirius were taking.
他先吃了午餐。一般來說，面對不愉快的經歷時，肚子飽了會更好。那天下午安排了麻瓜研究和占卜的考試——詹姆斯和天狼星都要參加。

“Moony, what are hot air balloons for? I still don’t get it…” James pleaded, looking very frazzled.
“月亮，熱氣球是幹什麼用的？我還是不明白……”詹姆斯懇求道，顯得非常焦躁。

“You’ll be fine,” Lily said, pouring herself some pumpkin juice, “Muggle Studies should be easy for you, after advanced Transfiguration.”
“你會沒事的，”莉莉說，給自己倒了一些南瓜汁，“在高級變形術之後，麻瓜研究對你來說應該很簡單。”

“Wow, thanks Evans,” James beamed. Everyone looked at Lily, who blushed and returned to her food.
“哇，謝謝埃文斯，”詹姆斯笑著說。大家看著莉莉，她臉紅了，回到了她的食物上。

“I’ve still never seen anything in a crystal ball.” Peter sighed deeply.
“我還是從來沒在水晶球裡看到過什麼。”彼得深深地嘆了口氣。

“Tell her you see a grim,” Sirius said, cheerfully, “That’s what I’m doing.”
“告訴她你看到了一隻預兆，”天狼星愉快地說，“這就是我在做的事。”

“Why a grim?”
“為什麼是預兆？”

“I just have a feeling she might actually see one, tomorrow afternoon, at about two o’clock.” Sirius smirked. James and Peter began to laugh, much to the girls’ confusion.
“我只是有一種感覺，她明天下午兩點左右可能真的會看到一隻預兆。”天狼星邪魅地笑道。詹姆斯和彼得開始笑了，讓女孩們感到困惑。

Remus loitered outside the Great Hall for as long as he could with his friends, until they all had to go in for the exam. Putting it off a few minutes won’t hurt...
雷木斯和他的朋友們在大禮堂外徘徊了很長時間，直到他們都必須進去考試。拖延幾分鐘也無妨……

But eventually, it was time to face the music. After all, the sooner he did it, the longer he’d have by himself to actually process it. Even if it was nothing; even if he only had to cope with another disappointment. He had a good book on hand, and full access to Sirius’s record collection, so the afternoon didn’t have to be completely unpleasant.
但最終，還是要面對現實。畢竟，越早面對，就能有更多的時間自己來處理這些事情。即使什麼都沒有；即使他只需要應對另一個失望。他手頭有一本好書，還能隨意使用天狼星的唱片收藏，所以這個下午不必完全令人不快。

He drew the curtains around his bed, even though he was alone in the dorm room. He blew the dust from the cardboard lid, and it made him cough.
他拉上了床邊的窗簾，儘管他在宿舍房間裡是獨自一人。他吹走了紙板蓋上的灰塵，結果讓他咳嗽起來。

“Scourgify,” he choked, aiming his wand at his sheets to rid them of the nasty grey matter. No going back now. As quickly as ripping off a plaster, he lifted the lid.
“清潔咒，”他呛聲著說，用魔杖對準床單，清除那該死的灰色物質。現在已經沒有回頭路了。像撕掉膠布一樣迅速，他打開了蓋子。

At first, it all looked completely harmless. Everything inside was flat - papers, presumably, sorted into neat brown envelopes of varying sizes, varying ages.
起初，一切看起來完全無害。裡面的東西都是平的——大概是一些紙張，分門別類地放在整齊的棕色信封中，大小和年齡各異。

His admission papers to St Edmund’s - Remus John Lupin, 5 years 3 months, arrival date 12/07/1965. Reports written by his primary school teachers - all of the marks were ‘poor’. ‘Shows very little aptitude for academia’, one read, ‘Incapable of learning. May suit unskilled work.’ Fucking bitches.
他進入聖埃德蒙德的入學文件——雷木斯·約翰·盧平，5歲3個月，入學日期1965年12月7日。由他的小學老師寫的報告——所有的分數都是‘差’。其中一份寫著‘顯示出對學術的興趣很少’，‘無法學習。可能適合不需要技能的工作。’該死的臭女人們。

His birth certificate. It was a muggle one - he supposed his mother had not been admitted to St. Mungo’s. Remus learnt that he had been born at home, in Bristol, of all places. His mother’s name was Hope, and his father was listed as ‘Unemployed’. All of this, Remus worked through with impassive patience, like an archivist sifting through documents relating to some ancient history, not his own life. But then came the photographs.
他的出生證明。這是一份麻瓜的證明——他猜他的母親沒有被送進聖芒戈醫院。雷木斯了解到他是在布里斯托出生的，真是不可思議。他母親的名字是Hope，而他的父親則列為‘失業’。雷木斯以無動於衷的耐心處理這一切，就像一位檔案館員在篩選與古老歷史相關的文件，而不是他自己的人生。但接下來是那些照片。

They were black and white. Muggle; unmoving. One of a chubby baby dressed in some white knitted affair, with buttons shaped like bunny rabbits. Remus supposed it was him, there was nothing written on the back, only the stamp from Boots. There was another, which must have been taken when he arrived at St Edmund’s. In it, he was able to recognise some features - the dark, cautious stare, the mouth set in a determined grimace. He was looking up - at whoever was taking the photo, presumably - and he looked frightened.
這些照片是黑白的。麻瓜的；沒有動作。其中一張是胖乎乎的嬰兒穿著白色編織的衣物，上面有像兔子一樣的鈕扣。雷木斯猜那是他，背面什麼也沒有寫，只有Boots的印章。還有另一張，應該是在他到達聖埃德蒙德時拍的。在這張照片中，他能認出一些特徵——黑暗而謹慎的凝視，嘴巴緊抿成堅定的表情。他在仰望——可能是看著拍照的人——看起來很害怕。

The last picture was the worst. It was of a family he did not remember.
最後一張照片是最糟糕的。那是一個他不記得的家庭。

There was Lyall, tall and slim and gangly, tousled hair and small, wire framed spectacles. He was smiling - Remus never pictured him smiling. Sitting in a floral armchair beside him was a small, very young looking woman. She had immaculate platinum blonde hair in a proper sixties beehive, and she was wearing a neat shirtwaister which showed off her pretty figure. Her nose was a bit long and beakish, but she had a nice face. On her lap was a little boy, giggling, his face all creased up with joy. She was looking at him, her mouth was open - what had she been saying?
那裡有萊爾，高挑、纖瘦且瘦長，亂蓬蓬的頭髮和小巧的金屬眼鏡。他在微笑——雷木斯從未想像過他會微笑。坐在他旁邊的是一位看起來非常年輕的小女人。她擁有完美的鉑金金髮，梳成了標準的60年代蜂窩頭，穿著整潔的連衣裙，展現了她漂亮的身材。她的鼻子有點長，像鳥嘴，但她的臉很美。在她的膝蓋上是一個小男孩，咯咯地笑著，臉上滿是喜悅的皺紋。她在看著他，嘴巴張開——她在說什麼呢？

Remus put it down, feeling light headed. He realised he’d been holding his breath for a long time, and exhaled. There was one envelope left. The handwriting on it was not Matron’s. It hadn’t been sealed, though, so maybe she’d read it before. Maybe that’s why she hadn’t given it to him. Steeling himself once more, Remus pulled out a letter, folded neatly in thirds. It was written on pretty note paper with a floral design at the borders. The handwriting was pretty, too.
雷木斯放下它，感覺頭暈。他意識到自己已經屏住了很長時間的呼吸，於是呼氣了。還剩下一個信封。上面的字跡不是院長的。它沒有封口，也許她之前已經讀過了。也許這就是為什麼她沒有給他。雷木斯再次鼓起勇氣，拿出一封信，整齊地對折成三份。信紙上有漂亮的花卉設計邊框。字跡也很漂亮。

My darling boy,

I know I’ve no right to leave you this letter. It may be a good few years before you receive it - if you receive it at all. I hope that you do, and I hope that when you do, you’ll be old enough. Still, I don’t expect forgiveness.

I can’t think what to tell you. How can I explain? You were my beautiful, precious boy from the moment you were born. No - from the moment I felt you move inside me. Your father and I loved each other very much, and having you tripled our happiness a thousand times over. You were loved, my little Remus, I pray you haven’t forgotten it. But you’re very young, and they tell me that sometimes forgetting is kindest.

When the accident happened, I promised you I would do everything I could to make it right again. I had some stupid idea that just loving you would be enough.

Then when Lyall left us both, I tried for you. I swear tried. But I was never a very clever girl, and never as strong or practical as your father. You needed so much, and I had so little. I had no family once I married him, you see, they told me to make a choice. My parents didn’t approve, and even after he’d gone, I knew they wouldn’t approve of you.

I can’t say how sorry I am, to let you go. In my heart I know it’s the safest thing, and the best for you, in the end. I know I will never forget you, and I know I will always long to see you again. I pray that when the time comes, I shall not be difficult for you to find.

All my love,

Hope Jenkins.
親愛的寶貝，

我知道我沒有權利給你留這封信。也許你要過幾年才能收到它——如果你能收到的話。我希望你能收到，我希望當你收到的時候，你已經夠大了。不過，我不指望得到你的原諒。

我不知道該告訴你什麼。我怎麼解釋呢？從你出生的那一刻起，你就是我美麗而珍貴的寶貝。不，從我感受到你在我體內移動的那一刻起。你父親和我非常相愛，擁有你讓我們的幸福倍增。你是被愛的，我的小雷木斯，我祈禱你沒有忘記這一點。但你還很年輕，他們告訴我，有時候忘記是最仁慈的。

當事故發生時，我向你承諾，我會盡一切努力使一切恢復正常。我曾經有個愚蠢的想法，就是僅僅愛你就足夠了。

然後，當萊爾離開了我們兩個人，我為你努力。我發誓我真的努力了。但我從來不是一個很聰明的女孩，也從來不像你的父親那樣堅強或實際。你需要那麼多，而我擁有那麼少。你看，當我嫁給他後我沒有了家人，他們告訴我必須做出選擇。我父母不贊成，即使在他去世後，我知道他們也不會贊成你。

我無法說我有多麼抱歉，讓你離開。我的內心知道這是最安全的，也是對你最好的選擇。我知道我永遠不會忘記你，我知道我將永遠渴望再次見到你。我祈禱當那時來臨時，我不會讓你難以找到。

滿滿的愛，

Hope Jenkins.

Remus put the letter back in the envelope and closed the box. He threw the box under the bed. He climbed underneath his heavy covers and curled up small, like he used to at St Edmund’s. He felt as if a hole had been opened up inside of him, a big, gaping emptiness. Tears picked his eyes, and because he was alone, he let them come.
雷木斯把信放回信封裡，然後合上了盒子。他把盒子扔到床下。他爬到沉重的被子下面，蜷縮成一團，就像他在聖埃德蒙德時一樣。他感覺內心好像被打開了一個洞，一個巨大的、張嘴的空洞。眼淚湧上了他的眼眶，因為他是獨自一人，他讓它們流下來。

Saturday 2nd July 1977

He’d never given his mother much thought. At least, not since he’d been at Hogwarts, which seemed so full of Lyall and all his achievements and mistakes. Obviously it would have been better to have a mother than not, but he wasn’t sure what he’d been missing all that time. Matron hadn’t been very maternal, but she wasn’t paid to love the boys she looked after.
他從未多想過他的母親。至少，自從他進了霍格華茲以來，似乎萊爾以及他所有的成就和錯誤占據了他的思緒。顯然，有一個母親會比沒有母親要好，但他不確定自己一直以來缺少的是什麼。院長並不太具母性，但她不是為了愛護她照顧的男孩而被聘用的。

This window into Hope’s life - into his own life - was terrifying to Remus, and he wished he’d never read the stupid letter. Still, he read it more than once. He read it every night, for the rest of the term, as if reading the word ‘loved’ could make him feel it. It couldn’t.
這扇窗戶打開了對Hope生活的了解——也就是對他自己生活的了解——對雷木斯來說是令人恐懼的，他希望自己從未讀過那封愚蠢的信。儘管如此，他還是讀了不止一次。他每晚都讀，直到學期結束，就像讀到‘被愛’這個詞能讓他感受到一樣。但它不能。

The marauders stayed an extra two nights at Hogwarts, for Remus’s sake. The first full moon of the summer fell on the 1st July, and it was more convenient (not to mention safer for the Potters) if Remus spent it in the Shrieking Shack. Well, he was supposed to be in the Shrieking Shack, but of course Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs had other ideas. Free of exams and excited about the summer, they had one of the best full moon nights they’d had in ages.
麻瓜四人組多留在霍格華茲兩晚，是為了雷木斯的緣故。夏季的第一次滿月落在了7月1日，如果雷木斯在嚎叫屋度過，那會更方便（更安全，尤其對波特夫婦來說）。嗯，他本應在嚎叫屋，但當然，蟲尾、獵犬和角鹿有其他的想法。沒有了考試，對夏天充滿期待，他們度過了多年来最好的滿月之夜之一。

Still, Madam Pomfrey insisted on the usual course of aftercare, and knocked Remus out with a strong sleeping draught to ensure he rested through the next morning,
儘管如此，Pomfrey夫人還是堅持了通常的護理程序，給雷木斯喝下了強效的安眠藥，以確保他能夠好好休息到第二天早晨。

“Travelling by floo powder can make you queasy at the best of times,” she cautioned, “Better safe than sorry.”
“搭乘火爐粉旅行在最佳情況下也可能讓你感到不適，”她警告道，“謹慎一點總比後悔好。”

They were due to travel that evening, using the fireplace in McGonagall's office. Remus woke up just after lunch, and found he was not alone.
他們計劃在那天晚上通過麥格教授的辦公室的壁爐旅行。雷木斯在午餐後不久醒來，發現自己並不孤單。

“Hiya, Moony,” Sirius said, softly, sitting in the chair by his bed. His eyes were dark, he looked as though he had been dozing, too.
“嗨，Moony，”小天狼星輕聲說，坐在他床邊的椅子上。他的眼睛很暗，看起來像是也在打盹。

“Hiya,” Remus echoed, sitting up, stretching, “You ought to be in bed, you look knackered.”
“嗨，”雷木斯回應道，坐起來伸展身體，“你應該在床上休息，你看起來很疲憊。”

“Shut up, I look gorgeous,” Sirius replied, yawning. “Anyway, James is tearing the bedroom apart trying to pack, I wouldn’t get any sleep. Hungry?”
“閉嘴，我看起來很迷人，”小天狼星回應，打了個哈欠。“不過，詹姆斯正在把臥室弄得一片狼藉試圖打包，我根本無法入睡。餓了嗎？”

“Always.”
“總是。”

“Good, I’m supposed to make sure you eat,” he motioned to a plate sitting on the bedside table, loaded with fruit and sandwiches. Remus picked up an apple and bit into it, ravenous.
“很好，我應該確保你吃東西，”他指著床頭櫃上的盤子，上面擺滿了水果和三明治。雷木斯拿起一個蘋果咬了一口，餓極了。

Neither of them said much for a while, but Sirius ate a few grapes. Since March, they had perfected the art of making small talk with as little detail or eye contact as possible. You could call it a friendship, if you didn’t know what had come before.
他們一會兒都沒有說太多話，但小天狼星吃了幾顆葡萄。自從三月以來，他們已經將閒聊的藝術完善到了盡量少涉及細節或眼神接觸的程度。如果你不知道之前的事情，你可以稱之為友情。

“I feel a bit bad.” Sirius said, out of the blue, looking at his shoelaces.
“我覺得有點愧疚。”小天狼星突然說，看著自己的鞋帶。

“Hm?”
“嗯？”

“I feel a bit bad about the way I spoke to you, a while ago. About your friend er… Christopher?”
“我對之前跟你談話的方式有點愧疚。關於你的朋友呃…克里斯托弗？”

“Yeah.” Remus finished his apple core, down the the stem, which he put down, reaching for a sandwich next. Cheese and pickle. “You were a bit rude, but it’s ok. I haven’t thought about it much.”
“嗯。”雷木斯吃完了蘋果的果核，放下來，伸手拿了一個三明治。奶酪和醃菜。“你有點粗魯，但沒關係。我沒有多想。”

“Oh, that’s good.” Sirius nodded. He looked at Remus, then quickly diverted his gaze out of the window. “I thought maybe… I thought he might be the reason you decided to stop.”
“哦，那就好。”小天狼星點頭。他看了看雷木斯，然後迅速轉移視線望向窗外。“我想也許…我以為他可能是你決定停止的原因。”

Remus didn’t need to ask what he meant. Sirius was being very clear.
雷木斯不需要問他指的是什麼。小天狼星非常明確。

“No.” Remus said, choosing his words carefully. “It wasn’t to do with him. I told you, he’s my friend, that’s all.”
“不。”雷木斯說，仔細選擇著詞語。“這和他無關。我告訴過你，他只是我的朋友，就這樣。”

Sirius nodded, bravely.
小天狼星勇敢地點點頭。

“Yeah, I believe you. I do.”
“是的，我相信你。我相信。”

He still didn’t understand, Remus realised, sadly. He still didn’t know why they couldn’t just carry on the way they were. Stupid, beautiful, impossible boy.
他仍然不理解，雷木斯悲傷地意識到。他仍然不知道為什麼他們不能繼續像以前那樣。愚蠢、漂亮、不可思議的男孩。

“Look, Sirius,” he said, still cautious, “I just… I’ve had a bit of a shit year, to be honest. Maybe I’m having a shit life, I dunno. There’s a lot of stuff going on at the moment that I can’t really control. So the way I see it... if something’s making me miserable that I can control, then…”
“看，天狼星，”他說，仍然小心翼翼，“老實說，我今年過得有點糟糕。也許我過得很糟，我也不知道。現在有很多我無法控制的事情。所以我覺得…如果有什麼讓我痛苦而我能夠控制，那麼…”

“Oh, right. I get it.”
“哦，我明白了。”

“Yeah?”
“是嗎？”

“I would never want to make you miserable, Moony,” Sirius said, “I just want you to be happy.”
“我絕對不想讓你痛苦，Moony，”小天狼星說，“我只希望你能幸福。”

Remus gave a small smile. He reached out, putting his hand over Sirius’s. It was warm, and the touch was gentle. Sirius looked down at their hands, surprised.
雷木斯露出了一個小微笑。他伸出手，放在小天狼星的手上。那是溫暖的，觸感很輕柔。小天狼星低頭看著他們的手，感到驚訝。

“Thanks,” Remus said. “It means a lot.”
“謝謝，”雷木斯說。“這對我來說意義重大。”

 

Sirius didn’t say anything, but he squeezed Remus’s hand gently, and the two of them sat in silence, sharing a moment of quiet understanding. The afternoon sun filtered through the window, casting a warm, golden glow over the room.
小天狼星沒有說什麼，但他輕輕地握住雷木斯的手，他們兩人靜靜地坐著，共享一刻靜謐的理解。午後的陽光透過窗戶灑進房間，給房間覆上了一層溫暖的金色光輝。

 

Chapter 114: Summer 1977: Part 1Television man is crazy, saying we’re juvenile delinquent wrecks,

Oh man! I need TV, when I got T.Rex!

 

Saturday 2nd July 1977

Remus felt strangely untethered, arriving at the Potter’s with all of his earthly possessions, moving them into a temporary room. He was going to have to tell somebody what had happened – and soon. If he could just get Mr Potter on his own, maybe… but both of James’s parents were busier than ever this year, running in and out of the house on errands, or holding secretive meetings which the boys weren’t allowed to attend.
雷木斯感覺有些不知所措，帶著他所有的世俗財物來到波特家，將它們搬進了一個臨時的房間。他得告訴某人發生了什麼事——而且要快。如果他能單獨找到波特先生，也許…但是詹姆斯的父母今年比以往更忙碌，頻繁地出入於家中辦事，或者舉行秘密會議，男孩們不被允許參加。

“But we’re all of age,” James protested.
“但我們都成年了，”詹姆斯抗議道。

“You’re still my little boy, though,” Mrs Potter kissed his head, patronisingly, as she cleared their breakfast plates.
“但你仍然是我的小男孩，”波特夫人親吻了他的頭，帶著一絲居高臨下的語氣，一邊收拾他們的早餐盤子。

James looked highly insulted by this babying, but Remus’s eyes pricked with tears and he had to excuse himself.
詹姆斯對這種溺愛的態度顯得非常不滿，但雷木斯的眼睛紅了，眼淚在眼眶中打轉，他不得不找藉口離開了。

They had a week to prepare for the camping trip, and on the very first day set off into the village to purchase a tent. Remus had never been camping in his life, but still found himself better equipped than James, Sirius or Peter, who were in turns distracted, terrified and fascinated by every single item in the shop. It fell to Remus to talk to the shopkeeper about boring things like ground sheets and pegs and rigging. In the end, he settled for two sensible brown and orange two-man tents, ignoring Sirius’s pleading that he consider a blue and green psychedelic number.
他們有一周的時間來準備露營旅行，第一天就出發到村子裡去買帳篷。雷木斯一生中從未露營過，但他發現自己比詹姆斯、小天狼星或彼得更具備準備的能力，後三者在商店中的每一個物品上輪流分心、恐懼和著迷。雷木斯負責與店主討論那些無聊的事情，比如地布、帳篷釘和繩索。最後，他選擇了兩個實用的棕色和橙色的雙人帳篷，無視了小天狼星請求他考慮一個藍綠色迷幻風格的帳篷。

The next day, Remus had to check they all had appropriate muggle clothes, seeing as they would be using a muggle campsite, then they got a crash course in cooking from Gully the house elf.
第二天，雷木斯不得不檢查他們是否都有合適的麻瓜衣物，因為他們將使用一個麻瓜露營地，接著他們還從家養小精靈Gully那裡獲得了速成烹飪課程。

“Can’t the girls do the cooking?” James whinged, as the foul smell of burnt eggs filled the air. Mrs Potter, who had been watching with amusement came up and slapped him lightly around the head,
“難道女孩們不能做飯嗎？”詹姆斯抱怨道，當空氣中彌漫著焦蛋的難聞氣味時。波特夫人看到這一幕，輕輕拍了拍他的頭，帶著一絲娛樂的表情，

“Some man I’ve raised here,” she sniffed, “If you can’t cook a young lady breakfast, don’t expect her to spend the night.”
“我養出了什麼樣的男人，”她嗤之以鼻，“如果你不能為一位女士煮早餐，就不要指望她過夜。”

“Urgh, Mum!” James scowled, repulsed, while Sirius and Remus were bent over laughing.
“噁心，媽媽！”詹姆斯皺起眉頭，厭惡地說，而小天狼星和雷木斯則彎著腰大笑。

They filled the rest of the time planning all of the things they would do with their holiday freedom, watching the matinee at the local cinema (there was a Bond film playing, and Airport ‘77, which was Remus’s personal favourite) and of course, flying their brooms. Sirius was very impressed by Remus’s recent improvement, and they actually managed to organise a very small scale quidditch game (without the snitch, Peter as Keeper).
他們利用剩下的時間計劃假期自由時要做的所有事情，看了當地電影院的下午場（那裡正在放映一部邦德片和《機場77》，這是雷木斯的最愛），當然，還有飛掃帚。小天狼星對雷木斯最近的進步感到非常滿意，他們還成功地組織了一場非常小規模的魁地奇比賽（沒有金探子，由彼得擔任守門員）。

There was no sign of Moody, this summer. Mr Potter explained over dinner one night that security measures on their house had been increased, and Moody was back in the Auror’s office, managing things there. Remus was relieved - he’d tied Moody and Ferox together in his mind, muddled them all up with the Livia encounter and Dumbledore’s cruel single mindedness. All in all, after the year he’d had, Remus was looking forward to a few weeks away from anyone older than him.
今年夏天沒有摩迪的身影。波特先生在某晚的晚餐中解釋說，他們家中的安全措施已經加強，摩迪回到了奧羅的辦公室，負責那裡的事務。雷木斯感到如釋重負——他將摩迪和費羅克斯混為一談，把它們與利維亞的遭遇和鄧布利多的殘酷單一思想混在一起。總的來說，在度過了這樣的一年後，雷木斯期待著遠離比他年長的幾週時間。

It was decided that they would all apparate to Cornwall, except for Peter, who had failed his test. Mrs Potter had kindly offered to take him as a side-along, before disapparating back home, but Peter insisted on taking the Knight bus. This way, he decided, he could collect Dorcas along the way.
他們決定所有人都將傳送到康沃爾，除了彼得，他未能通過測試。波特夫人好心地提議在返回家之前帶他一起，但彼得堅持搭乘騎士巴士。他決定這樣做，可以在路上接上多卡斯。

The evening before they were set to leave, James, Sirius and Remus squeezed themselves into the red phone box at the end of the Potter’s street to coordinate with what Sirius was calling ‘the female contingent’.
在他們準備離開的前夕，詹姆斯、小天狼星和雷木斯擠進了波特街盡頭的紅色電話亭，與小天狼星所說的“女性代表”進行協調。

“Can I press the buttons, Moony?” James asked, running his fingers over the silvery keypad.
“我可以按按鈕嗎，Moony？”詹姆斯問道，手指在銀色鍵盤上劃過。

“Which bit do you talk into?” Sirius said, holding the receiver up to his eyes for inspection.
“哪一部分是你說話的地方？”小天狼星說，將話筒舉到眼前檢查。

“Oh, for goodness sake, you two, calm down…” Remus dialled Lily’s home number, snatching the black plastic receiver back. It rang for a bit, and he hoped that Lily would pick up the phone, and not one of her parents.
“哦，天哪，你們倆，冷靜點…”雷木斯撥通了莉莉的家號，奪回了黑色塑料話筒。電話響了片刻，他希望莉莉能接電話，而不是她的父母中的任何一個。

“Good evening, Evans household?” A young woman answered.
“晚上好，埃文斯家？”一位年輕的女子回答道。

“Lily?”
“莉莉？”

“Who’s speaking, please?”
“請問是誰在說話？”

“Er… Remus Lupin.”
“呃… 雷木斯·盧平。”

There was a very rude snorting laugh, then the person on the other end shouted away from the receiver;
那邊傳來了一聲非常粗魯的哼聲，然後那人朝話筒外面大喊道；

“LILY! It’s for YOU!”
“莉莉！是你的電話！”

Remus waited, shifting from foot to foot, Sirius and James watching him eagerly.
雷木斯等待著，不停地換腳，小天狼星和詹姆斯熱切地看著他。

“Thanks, Pet,” Lily’s voice said on the other end.
“謝謝，Pet，”莉莉的聲音在另一端說道。

“Don’t be too long, I’m waiting for Vernon to call.”
“別等太久，我在等弗農打來。”

“Hello?” Lily’s voice came louder, directly into the phone.
“你好？”莉莉的聲音變得更大，直接傳到電話中。

“Hi Lily, it’s Remus.”
“嗨莉莉，我是雷木斯。”

“Hiya Remus! Sorry, that was my sister. Are you all ready?”
“嗨雷木斯！抱歉，那是我妹妹。你準備好了嗎？”

“Yep, I think so. Pete’s left already I think. You lot?”
“嗯，我想是的。我想彼得已經出發了。你們呢？”

“Mary and Marlene got here just before tea. We agreed one o’clock in the afternoon, didn’t we?”
“瑪麗和馬琳在茶點前來到這裡。我們說好下午一點見，不是嗎？”

“Yeah, one o’clock, just outside the campsite. I made James get a map.”
“對，下午一點，就在露營地外面。我讓詹姆斯拿了一張地圖。”

“Oh good. I think mum’s letting me borrow the A to Z.”
“太好了。我覺得媽媽讓我借了A到Z地圖。”

“Cool.”
“太棒了。”

James was tugging on Remus’s sleeve. He sighed, “Er, Lily? James and Sirius have never used a phone before, can you talk to them for a minute so they leave me alone?”
詹姆斯在拉著雷木斯的袖子。他嘆了口氣，“呃，莉莉？詹姆斯和小天狼星從未用過電話，你能跟他們聊一會兒，讓他們離開我嗎？”

Lily laughed,
莉莉笑了，

“Go on then, it’ll wind Pet up.”
“那就去吧，這會讓Pet惱火的。”

Remus leaned back against the glass panes and watched James and Sirius fight over the phone, taking turns to shout something at Lily and then press the receiver to their ears and listen with wonder. Night began to fall around them, and if anyone had walked past they would just have seen three village boys mucking about in a phone box, without a care in the world.
雷木斯靠在玻璃窗上，看著詹姆斯和小天狼星爭奪電話，輪流對莉莉大喊什麼，然後把話筒貼在耳朵上，驚奇地聽著。夜色開始降臨，如果有人路過，他們只會看到三個村子裡的男孩在電話亭裡嬉戲，無憂無慮。

Saturday 9th July 1977Remus’s first time apparating outside of Hogwarts could have gone a bit better, but at least he didn’t end up in a tree, like James did. He ended up, in fact, about half a mile south of the campsite, on the beach.
雷木斯第一次在霍格華茲以外的地方瞬移本來可以更順利些，但至少他沒有像詹姆斯那樣掉進樹裡。實際上，他最終出現在了露營地南方約半英里處的海灘上。

He’d been to the seaside before, on summer trips at St Edmund’s – three times to Margate, once to Southend. He couldn’t say he’d particularly enjoyed these outings – or at least he didn’t enjoy them any more than he would have enjoyed sitting in the back garden at St Edmund’s. They were busy, noisy places, full of crying children and barking dogs and strange sugary smells and brightly coloured fairground rides.
他以前去過海邊，在聖埃德蒙德的夏季旅行中——三次去瑪格特，一次去索森德。他不能說他特別喜歡這些出遊——至少他不比坐在聖埃德蒙德的後花園中更喜歡這些地方。那裡是繁忙而嘈雜的地方，充滿了哭鬧的孩子、吠叫的狗、奇怪的糖果氣味和色彩鮮艷的遊樂場設施。

This beach was almost deserted, except for a few kids – dots in the distance, really – flying a pink and blue kite. The day was warm enough, the sky was blue and the sand soft and yellow. He knew he ought to start walking towards the campsite, to find the others, but instead he sat down for a few minutes, just to look. The sea wasn’t green, or bright blue, like in picture books – it was more of a concrete kind of grey. Still pretty, glimmering under the midday sun. In the very far distance, Remus could just about make out a long dark shape on the horizon. Was that France? Might be. He could pretend it was.
這片海灘幾乎是空無一人的，只有幾個孩子——實際上是遠處的小點——在放一隻粉紅色和藍色的風箏。天氣足夠暖和，天空湛藍，沙灘柔軟而金黃。他知道他應該開始朝露營地走去，去找其他人，但他卻坐下來幾分鐘，只是看一看。大海不像圖畫書中那樣綠色或明亮的藍色——它更像是一種混凝土般的灰色。仍然很漂亮，在正午的陽光下閃閃發光。在遙遠的地平線上，雷木斯勉強能辨認出一個長長的黑色形狀。那是法國嗎？也許是。他可以假裝是。

Remus hadn’t been able to relax, at the Potters. He’d felt like a visitor there; someone who didn’t belong. He didn’t know where he did belong. Now that he was seventeen, he could go anywhere he wanted. Would it be nice to live here, in Cornwall? He had recently discovered he’d been born in Bristol, and wondered what it was like there; that was by the sea, too. Remus had never thought he’d live anywhere other than London. Once, he’d thought he would probably never leave Essex.
雷木斯在波特家中無法放鬆。他覺得自己像是一個訪客；一個不屬於那裡的人。他不知道自己屬於哪裡。既然他已經十七歲了，他可以去任何他想去的地方。住在這裡，康沃爾會很好嗎？他最近發現自己出生在布里斯托，並想知道那裡是什麼樣的；那裡也在海邊。雷木斯從未想過自己會住在倫敦以外的地方。曾經，他以為自己可能永遠不會離開艾塞克斯。

Eventually, he felt too guilty and had to go and look for the others. The walk was bracing, and after a year of being confined to Hogwarts, it was a thrill just to be able to go somewhere alone. The campsite itself was halfway up the beach, on a long stretch of flat, neatly trimmed grass. A few families had already pitched tents, and the mothers and fathers were sitting outside them in deck chairs, soaking up the rare English summer sun with cups of tea and newspapers standing by.
最終，他感到太內疚了，必須去尋找其他人。步行讓人感到神清氣爽，經過了一年的霍格華茲生活，能夠獨自去某個地方真是一種激動。露營地本身位於海灘的中途，長長的平坦草地上已經有幾個家庭搭起了帳篷，父母們坐在帳篷外面的躺椅上，享受著難得的英國夏日陽光，旁邊放著茶杯和報紙。

Mary, Marlene, James and Sirius were sitting on a picnic bench outside the site office, which was little more than a breezeblock hut. Mary and Marlene jumped up when they saw him,
瑪麗、馬琳、詹姆斯和小天狼星正坐在露營地辦公室外的野餐桌上，辦公室只是個簡單的磚塊小屋。當瑪麗和馬琳看到他時跳了起來，

“We thought we’d lost you!”
“我們以為我們把你弄丟了！”

“Overshot,” he explained, “Landed on the beach - not in the water, luckily.”
“我超過了，”他解釋道，“降落在了海灘上——幸運的是，不是在水裡。”

“We all ballsed it up, a bit,” Mary laughed, and they each recounted the strange places they’d ended up. Except for Lily, who had arrived in precisely the place she’d meant to. She was inside the office, booking them in.
“我們都有點搞砸了，”瑪麗笑道，他們每個人都講述了自己最終到達的奇怪地方。除了莉莉，她準確地到達了她打算去的地方。她在辦公室裡，正在為他們辦理登記。

This done, the party set about finding the perfect place to pitch their tents. James and Sirius decided this needed to be as close to the beach as possible. Then there was the matter of actually erecting the tents, which was endlessly fascinating to the two pureblood boys.
辦完這些，大家開始尋找搭帳篷的完美地點。詹姆斯和小天狼星決定這需要盡可能靠近海灘。然後就是實際搭建帳篷的問題，這對兩個純血男孩來說是無窮的魅力所在。

Lily took charge, channelling her prefect persona, reading out directions and barking out orders.
莉莉掌握了主導，發揮了她的學監角色，讀出指示並發號施令。

“No not that hook, I said the one in the corner… bloody hell, Black, use the flipping mallet, not your boot! Come on, chop chop, we haven’t got all day…”
“不是那個鉤子，我說的是角落裡的那個……該死的，布萊克，使用那把該死的錘子，不是你的靴子！來，快點，我們沒有整天的時間……”

“Blimey, Evans,” James grinned, standing with his arms up, holding one of the poles in place while Mary and Marlene tried to get the canvas over it, “Have you ever considered quidditch coaching? You’d be incredible.”
“天啊，埃文斯，”詹姆斯咧嘴一笑，雙臂舉起，保持一根支柱的位置，而瑪麗和馬琳試圖把帆布套在上面，“你考慮過魔法飛球教練嗎？你會很棒的。”

“Please, no,” Marlene called out, muffled under the heavy fabric. “I’ll leave the team if I have to put up with both of you blowing whistles at me.”
“拜託，不要，”馬琳在厚重的布料下喊道。“如果我必須忍受你們兩個對我吹口哨，我會離開隊伍的。”

It took almost two hours, but it was a huge amount of fun, and everyone was very pleased with themselves once all four tents were up in a neat row, facing out to sea.
花了差不多兩個小時，但這非常有趣，當四頂帳篷整齊地排成一行，面對著大海時，每個人都對自己感到非常滿意。

“Well done, lads,” Lily smiled, sitting cross legged on the grass they waited for the kettle to boil, “And no magic at all. You’ll make muggles yet.”
“做得好，夥計們，”莉莉微笑道，雙腿交叉坐在草地上，他們等著水壺煮開，“而且完全沒有魔法。你們還會成為麻瓜的。”

Peter and Dorcas arrived shortly after that, looking very rumpled and tired from their long journey on the Knight bus.
彼得和多卡斯不久後到達，看起來很疲憊，因為他們在騎士巴士上長途旅行後非常凌亂。

“It stopped at Guernsey twice before we even started south…” Dorcas explained, looking vaguely disturbed. Peter accepted a cup of tea and sat in silence, yawning.
“它在我們開始南行之前在根西停了兩次……”多卡斯解釋道，看起來有點擔憂。彼得接過一杯茶，靜靜地坐著，打了個哈欠。

Once they’d woken up a bit, Mary decided it was time to go to the beach. It was about three o’clock by then, but still very warm, and they had hours of daylight left. The girls disappeared into their tents to get into swimming costumes. Sirius and James had been so excited by the prospect of muggle swimming trunks that they’d been wearing them all day anyway, and Remus – still in jeans and long sleeves – wasn’t planning to take off his clothes under any circumstances.
等他們稍微清醒了一些，瑪麗決定是時候去海灘了。當時大約是三點鐘，但仍然很暖和，他們還有幾個小時的日光。女孩們消失進帳篷裡換上游泳衣。小天狼星和詹姆斯對麻瓜泳褲的前景感到如此興奮，以至於他們整天都穿著它們，而雷木斯——仍然穿著牛仔褲和長袖——則不打算在任何情況下脫下衣服。

He did remove his trainers and socks, when they reached the sand, but ignored the other’s pleas to join them in the sea. He was happy enough to sit on the bank, enjoying the warm sun on his back and listening to the seagulls screaming overhead. The girls shrieked too, as they dipped their toes in the icy cold water, and they made a game of running back and forth with the tide, daring each other to get in. James was knocked over by a wave when he wasn’t looking – too busy staring at Lily’s long bare legs. Mind you, Remus caught her throwing a few longing glances at him too. Those muscles were pretty hard to ignore.
當他們到達沙灘時，他確實脫下了運動鞋和襪子，但忽略了其他人邀請他一起去海裡。他很高興能坐在岸邊，享受背上的暖陽，聽著頭上的海鷗尖叫。女孩們也尖叫著，把腳趾浸入冰冷的水中，並玩著隨著潮水來回跑的遊戲，相互挑戰著去海裡。詹姆斯在不注意時被一個波浪打翻了——他太忙於盯著莉莉修長的裸腿。說實話，雷木斯也看到她對他投來了幾個渴望的目光。那些肌肉真的很難忽視。

Sirius, as usual was in a league of his own. He strode out into the surf as if it was as warm as bathwater, and as soon as he was waist deep, dived right under, sleek and graceful as a fish. He swam long, languid strokes, and came back looking happier than Remus had seen him in a long time.
小天狼星，像往常一樣，獨具一格。他大步走進海浪中，彷彿水溫和浴缸一樣溫暖，一到腰深，他就迅速潛入水中，像魚一樣光滑優雅。他游了很長的悠閒的泳姿，回來時看起來比雷木斯很長一段時間看到的要快樂多了。

Afterwards, wrapped in towels, the girls showed the pureblood boys how to build a sandcastle without any magic, and James and Peter became extremely invested in creating a complicated irrigation system to ensure that the moat was properly supplied at all times.
之後，裹著毛巾的女孩們向純血男孩們展示了如何在沒有魔法的情況下建造沙堡，詹姆斯和彼得對建立一個複雜的灌溉系統變得非常投入，以確保護城河隨時得到適當的供應。

Back at the tents they cooked dinner – thankfully Marlene and Dorcas offered to supervise this, frying bacon over a little gas burner Lily’s father had donated. James and Lily went off to the shop – ostensibly for milk – and returned with a case of cider.
回到帳篷裡，他們煮晚餐——幸運的是，馬琳和多卡斯提供了監督，使用莉莉父親捐贈的小燃氣爐煎培根。詹姆斯和莉莉去了商店——表面上是為了買牛奶——然後帶回了一箱蘋果酒。

“Muggle drinks, too?!” Sirius exclaimed.
“麻瓜飲料，也有？！”小天狼星驚叫道。

“We’re getting a fully rounded experience, apparently,” James laughed. Lily giggled then blushed and looked away.
“顯然，我們在獲得完整的體驗，”詹姆斯笑道。莉莉咯咯笑著，然後臉紅了，轉過頭去。

Remus could already see where the evening was heading, and sat himself as far away from Sirius as possible. They’d already agreed that Sirius and James would share one tent, with Peter and Remus in the other, so at least there would be no awkwardness there. He just had to watch his drinking.
雷木斯已經能夠看出晚上的走向，於是坐得離小天狼星盡可能遠。他們已經同意了小天狼星和詹姆斯共用一個帳篷，彼得和雷木斯在另一個帳篷裡，所以至少那裡不會有尷尬。他只需要注意他的飲酒。

Mary had lit a fire using magic while Lily had been gone (“no one tell her, all right? I’m not about to sit here freezing my snatch off while Potter and Black piss about rubbing sticks together.”), and Marlene had brought a wireless radio, so once the cans of cider had been passed around it was a very cosy scene indeed.
瑪麗用魔法點燃了火，而莉莉不在時（“沒人告訴她，好嗎？我不想在這裡坐著，讓自己冷得快凍僵了，而波特和布萊克卻在那裡用木棍摩擦。”），馬琳帶來了一台無線電，所以當蘋果酒的罐子傳來傳去時，這確實是一個非常舒適的場景。

“How long have you two been going out?” Dorcas asked James and Lily. They leapt apart, looking at each other guiltily.
“你們倆在一起多久了？”多卡斯問詹姆斯和莉莉。他們分開，彼此愧疚地看著對方。

“We’re not!” Lily squeaked, moving to sit next to Remus, as if to prove it. Mary and Marlene exchanged a look, and Sirius shot a confused glance at James.
“我們沒有！”莉莉尖叫道，移到雷木斯旁邊坐著，彷彿要證明什麼。瑪麗和馬琳交換了眼色，小天狼星對詹姆斯投去困惑的目光。

“Oh, sorry!” Dorcas smiled, oblivious, “I just thought… but Sirius and Mary, you used to go out, right?”
“哦，對不起！”多卡斯笑道，毫無察覺，“我只是以為……但小天狼星和瑪麗，你們以前交往過，對吧？”

“For my sins,” Mary squawked, laughing. Sirius poked his tongue out at her.
“作為我的罪過，”瑪麗尖叫著，笑了。小天狼星對她吐了吐舌頭。

Marlene, who had been reading a guidebook she’d bought in the visitor’s information centre, cleared her throat loudly,
“馬琳，之前在遊客資訊中心買了一本指南的，清了清嗓子，

“There’s a castle ruin not far from here, we could go tomorrow?” Which swiftly changed the subject to plans for the rest of the week. Camping holidays seemed to involve a lot of walking, Remus realised. He hoped his hip would be up to it.
“這裡不遠處有一座城堡遺址，我們可以明天去看看？”話題迅速轉向了接下來一週的計劃。雷木斯意識到露營假期似乎涉及大量的步行。他希望他的臀部能夠承受。

A few tins in and they were all in a very silly mood. The drink was flat and clear, which Remus knew was a dangerous sign when it came to cider. They’d all have skull-splitting headaches in the morning if they weren’t careful. He didn’t bring it up, though - everyone was so happy, why spoil it worrying about consequences?
喝了幾罐之後，他們都變得非常愚蠢。飲料是平的且清澈的，雷木斯知道這在蘋果酒中是一個危險的跡象。如果他們不小心的話，早晨都會有令人頭痛欲裂的頭痛。他沒有提起這點——大家都這麼開心，為什麼要擔心後果來破壞這種感覺呢？

Dorcas was lying back on Peter’s chest, using him as an armchair, humming softly to the music. He was trying to get his hand under her shirt, and thought he was being discreet. Mary and Marlene were whispering to each other, bursting into giggles every now and then. James and Sirius were throwing stones into the fire – it was obviously a competition of sorts, but Remus couldn’t figure out what the rules were supposed to be.
多卡斯躺在彼得的胸膛上，當作扶手椅，輕聲哼著音樂。他試圖把手伸進她的襯衫下，認為自己很隱蔽。瑪麗和馬琳互相低語著，時不時地爆發出笑聲。詹姆斯和小天狼星在往火裡扔石頭——顯然是一種比賽，但雷木斯無法弄清楚規則是什麼。

A familiar tune began to play on the radio – Mott the Hoople. It was a few years old now, but it had been a favourite at Gryffindor parties,
無線電上開始播放一首熟悉的曲調——Mott the Hoople。現在已經有幾年了，但這一直是格蘭芬多派對上的最愛，

“Billy rapped all night about his suicide,
“比利整晚都在談論他的自殺，

How he’d kick it in the head when he was twenty-five,
他二十五歲時會一腳踢到頭，

Speed jive, don’t wanna stay alive, when you’re twenty five…”
迅速搖擺，不想活到二十五歲……”

“Turn it up!” Mary nudged Marlene, who flicked her wand at the wireless, lazily, then cracked open another can. They all hushed to listen, nodding along and tapping their feet softly on the grass. When the chorus came, the girls all sang along in that soft, under the breath way that girls were so good at,
“把音量調高！”瑪麗輕推馬琳，馬琳懶洋洋地對著無線電揮了揮魔杖，然後又打開了一罐。他們都靜靜地聽著，點頭附和，輕輕地在草地上打拍子。當副歌來臨時，女孩們以她們擅長的那種輕聲、低語的方式一起唱，

“All the young dudes, carry the news…”
“所有年輕的傢伙，傳播消息……”

When the song finished they cheered drunkenly, laughing amongst themselves.
當歌曲結束時，他們醉醺醺地歡呼，彼此間笑著。

“I bloody love you lot,” Marlene slurred, “You’re all my best friends,”
“我他媽地愛你們，”馬琳含糊地說，“你們都是我最好的朋友，”

“Same to you, McKinnon,” Sirius grinned across the flames, raising his can.
“我也是，麥金農，”小天狼星笑著舉起罐子，穿過火焰。

“Shhh!” She waggled a drunken finger at him, dopily, “I know your game, Black. I’ll have you know, you’re not my type.”
“嘘！”她迷迷糊糊地對他揮了揮醉酒的手指，“我知道你的把戲，布萊克。我告訴你，你不是我的類型。”

Everybody laughed at that, even Sirius.
大家都笑了出來，連小天狼星也不例外。

“When are we going to find you a nice girl, hm Remus?” Lily said, thoughtfully, squeezing up to him for warmth and laying her head on his shoulder.
“我們什麼時候才能給你找個好女孩，嗯，雷木斯？”莉莉若有所思地說，靠在他身上取暖，把頭靠在他的肩膀上。

He smiled wanly, putting an affectionate arm around her.
他微笑著，親切地把手臂搭在她身上。

“Yeah, you deserve a bit of fun, Moony,” James winked at him.
“是啊，你應該享受點樂趣，月亮狼，”詹姆斯對他眨了眨眼。

Remus avoided Sirius sudden glare by taking another swig from his can.
雷木斯通過再次啜飲罐中的飲料來避開小天狼星突然的怒視。

“I have plenty of fun with you lot.” He said.
“我和你們在一起很開心。”他說。

“Have you ever had a girlfriend, Remus?” Dorcas asked. She didn’t mean anything by it; she didn’t know them very well. But there was an awkward hush all the same. Or maybe Remus was the only one who noticed. He glanced up at Mary coyly and smiled.
“你曾經有過女朋友嗎，雷木斯？”多卡斯問道。她並沒有什麼其他意思；她不太了解他們。但無論如何，氣氛變得尷尬。或者也許只有雷木斯注意到了。他害羞地看了一眼瑪麗，然後微笑著。

“Nah,” he said.
“沒有，”他說。

“Aww,” Dorcas said, very tipsy, “How come?”
“哦，”多卡斯說，已經很醉了，“為什麼呢？”

Suddenly, it dawned on Remus. Marlene was right – he loved these people, every one of them. What was the point, keeping secrets from them? This wasn’t up to Sirius, this wasn’t up to anyone but him. He breathed in and looked at the fire again.
突然，雷木斯領悟到了。馬琳是對的——他愛這些人，每一個。他隱瞞秘密又有什麼意義呢？這不是小天狼星的事，也不是任何人的事，只有他自己。他深吸一口氣，再次看向火焰。

“I’m gay.” He said.
“我喜歡男人。”他說。

Peter choked on his drink. Out of the corner of his eye, Remus saw James run his hands through his hair, sit up straighter. He saw Mary’s mouth fall open, and heard Marlene give out a surprised hiccup. He dared not look at Sirius. His stomach turned and he prepared to get up, to walk away and apparate somewhere. Anywhere.
彼得被他的飲料呛到了。雷木斯從眼角瞥見詹姆斯把手伸進頭髮中，坐得更直。他看到瑪麗的嘴巴張開了，聽到馬琳發出了驚訝的嗝聲。他不敢看小天狼星。他的胃翻江倒海，他準備站起來，離開並瞬移到某個地方。隨便哪裡。

But then Lily raised her head. She kissed his cheek and hugged him tighter, before settling back down against his shoulder.
但隨後莉莉抬起頭來。她吻了他的臉頰，緊緊擁抱了他，然後再次靠在他的肩膀上。

“You still deserve some fun.” She said, decisively.
“你仍然應該享受點樂趣。”她斷然地說。

 

Chapter 115: Summer 1977: Part 2 

Sweet handsome friend, I can tell you truly

that I've never been without desire

since it pleased you that I have you as my lover;

nor did a time ever arrive, sweet handsome friend,

when I didn't want to see you often;

nor did I ever feel regret,

nor did it ever come to pass, if you went off angry,

that I felt joy until you had come back;

nor [ever].

- Tibors de Sarenom

 

Two hours later...

 

Peter and Dorcas were snogging, rolling backwards onto the grass. Everyone was drunk, but they were probably the drunkest.
彼得和多卡斯在接吻，向後滾到草地上。每個人都醉了，但他們可能是最醉的。

“Go back to your tent, if you’re going to do that!” James threw an empty cider can at them.
“要是你們要這麼做，就回你們的帳篷去吧！”詹姆斯向他們扔了一個空的蘋果酒罐。

“D’you mind, Moony?” Peter surfaced, red in the face and bleary eyed, “If we go back to ours? You can bunk in with Prongs and Padfoot, can’t you?”
“你介意嗎，月亮狼？”彼得浮出水面，臉紅而迷糊地問，“我們要是回到我們那個帳篷，你可以和詹姆斯和小天狼星挤在一起，不是嗎？”

“Oh, don’t worry,” Remus waved a hand, “I’ll find somewhere.” Sirius still hadn’t looked at him, and he had a feeling that after the evening’s revelations he would not be particularly welcome.
“哦，別擔心，”雷木斯揮了揮手，“我會找地方的。”小天狼星仍然沒有看他，他覺得在今晚的揭示後，他可能不會受到特別的歡迎。

Peter and Dorcas disappeared, there was muffled giggling from within the tent, then the ghostly, hollow quiet of a silencing charm.
彼得和多卡斯消失了，帳篷裡傳來了悶悶的笑聲，接著是靜音咒語所帶來的幽靈般的寂靜。

“Share with us if you want, Remus?” Mary said, getting up to leave for her own tent. Lily nodded,
“要是你願意的話，和我們一起睡吧，雷木斯？”瑪麗說，起身要回自己的帳篷。莉莉點了點頭，

“Yeah, our tent’s much bigger – come in with us.”
“是啊，我們的帳篷大得多——來和我們一起吧。”

“Thanks girls,” He smiled – he really was grateful. “You go on – I’m not tired yet. Think I’ll just go for a walk.”
“謝謝你們，女孩們，”他微笑著——他真的很感激。“你們先走吧——我還不累。我想我會去散散步。”

He got up, limbs stiff and aching, and headed for the sea. It was properly dark now, away from the fire, but Remus had always been able to see in the dark. The tide was in, and louder than ever. A cold breeze flew forth, and he fumbled in his back pocket for a cigarette. He lit up and inhaled deeply, closing his eyes, feeling that now he could really think.
他站起來，四肢僵硬而疼痛，朝海邊走去。現在遠離火光，已經完全黑了，但雷木斯總是能在黑暗中看得清楚。潮水已經漲上來，比以往更大聲。一陣冷風吹來，他在後口袋裡摸索著找煙。他點燃了煙，深吸了一口氣，閉上眼睛，感覺到自己現在可以真正思考。

He was glad he’d said it, no matter what the reaction, but he still considered leaving. Ok, so they weren’t all about to kick his head in, but who knew how they’d all act in the cold light of morning, stark and sober. Was it better or worse than being a werewolf?
他很高興自己說出來了，不管反應如何，但他仍然考慮離開。好吧，他們不是都要揍他一頓，但誰知道他們在清晨的冷光中會怎麼反應，醒來後會怎麼樣。這比做狼人好還是壞呢？

He could still apparate, if he wanted to; go and look for Grant, maybe. Remus felt a surge of guilt. He hadn’t thought about Grant in a while – maybe not all year. The other boy had been so kind to him; taken him in and been willing to put him up indefinitely. He’d given Remus some excellent advice too, if only Remus had taken it. Stay away from posh boys.
如果他想的話，他仍然可以瞬移；去找格蘭特，或許。他感到一陣內疚。他已經有一段時間沒有想到格蘭特了——可能整年都沒有。那個男孩對他非常友善；接納了他並願意無限期地容納他。他還給了雷木斯一些很好的建議，如果雷木斯能接受的話。遠離高貴的男孩。

“Alright, Moony?” James approached him. Remus turned. Sirius was with him, looking sheepish. It looked as though James had dragged him over against his will. Remus wasn’t surprised.
“好吧，月亮狼？”詹姆斯走近他。雷木斯轉過身來。小天狼星在他身邊，看起來有些尷尬。看上去詹姆斯是拖著他來的，彷彿違反了他的意願。雷木斯並不驚訝。

“Alright,” he nodded. He offered James a cigarette. James shook his head, no.
“好吧，”他點了點頭。他給詹姆斯一支煙。詹姆斯搖了搖頭，表示不。

“Just… wanted to see you were ok.”
“只是……想看看你還好嗎。”

“Fine, thanks.”
“好的，謝謝。”

“Good.”
“很好。”

“Sorry if I made things awkward.”
“抱歉如果讓事情變得尷尬了。”

“You didn’t!” James said, a little too eagerly, as if he’d been hoping Remus would bring it up first. Sirius winced, but only Remus noticed. “Honestly, mate, we’re glad you told us, really.”
“你沒有！”詹姆斯說，語氣有點過於急切，彷彿他一直希望雷木斯先提起來。小天狼星皺了皺眉，但只有雷木斯注意到了。“說實話，夥計，我們很高興你告訴我們，真的。”

Remus just nodded, and looked back at the sea, taking another drag on his cigarette. Behind him, he heard James nudging Sirius, obviously trying to get him to say something reassuring and friendly, but to no avail.
雷木斯只是點了點頭，回過頭去看海，吸了一口煙。在他身後，他聽到詹姆斯輕推小天狼星，顯然是在試圖讓他說些安慰和友好的話，但沒有成功。

James spoke again, “Don’t run off, ok, Moony?”
詹姆斯再次開口說，“不要跑掉，好嗎，月亮狼？”

Remus turned back, raising an eyebrow. James was grinning, “Yeah, we know what you’re like. Stay, ok? Everything’s fine. Even Pete wasn’t that bothered.”
雷木斯轉過身來，挑了挑眉。詹姆斯笑著說，“是啊，我們知道你是怎麼樣的。留下來，好嗎？一切都很好。連彼得也沒那麼介意。”

“Pete,” Remus snorted, “He’s too busy trying to get his end away.”
“彼得，”雷木斯嗤笑道，“他太忙於尋找他的另一半了。”

“Can’t blame him.” James laughed. He touched Remus’s shoulder, “D’you want to talk about it?”
“不能怪他。”詹姆斯笑了。他拍了拍雷木斯的肩膀，“想談談嗎？”

Remus shook his head, looking down. He stubbed out his cigarette and immediately lit another. Sirius wanted one, he could tell. But Remus was feeling belligerent, and unless Black asked, like a normal human being, he wasn’t going to get one.
雷木斯搖了搖頭，低下頭。他熄滅了煙，立刻點燃了另一支。小天狼星想要一支，他能看出來。但雷木斯感到有些對抗，除非布萊克像正常人那樣開口，他不會給他一支。

“Thanks, James.” Remus said, pointedly, exhaling smoke, “You’re a real mate.”
“謝謝你，詹姆斯。”雷木斯明顯地說，吐出煙霧，“你是真正的朋友。”

“Still marauders.” James smiled, tiredly. He yawned, “I think I’m gonna turn in. Coming?”
“還是掠奪者。”詹姆斯疲憊地笑了。他打了個哈欠，“我想我要去睡覺了。你來嗎？”

“I’m going to have another one after this.” Remus raised his second cigarette.
“我打算再抽一根。”雷木斯舉起第二支煙。

“I’ll have one too.” Sirius said, gruffly. James nodded, stifling another yawn, and turned away.
“我也來一根。”小天狼星粗聲粗氣地說。詹姆斯點了點頭，壓抑著另一個哈欠，轉身離開。

“Don’t come back stinking of fag ash, you two.” He threw over his shoulder, as he walked back towards the campfire on the turf.
“別帶著煙灰味回來，倆個。”他回過頭來說，邊走回草地上的營火處。

Remus returned his gaze to the sea, but handed Sirius the box. He heard him withdraw a cigarette, light up, inhale. He waited for it.
雷木斯再次將目光投向大海，但把煙盒遞給了小天狼星。他聽到小天狼星抽出一根煙，點燃並吸入。他等待著。

“...Why’d you say that?” Sirius said.
“……為什麼你要這麼說？”小天狼星問。

Remus closed his eyes and smiled softly. He didn’t want a fight, but he was ready for one - he was always ready.
雷木斯閉上眼睛，輕輕微笑。他不想打架，但他已經準備好了——他總是準備好。

“Wanted to. I just had to know what they’d think, one way or another.”
“我想這麼做。我只是必須知道他們會怎麼想，無論如何。”

“It’s like you’ve just gone and changed everything around on me.” He didn’t sound accusatory. He sounded hurt.
“就像你突然改變了一切。”他並沒有聽起來指責。他聽起來很受傷。

“Didn’t mean to.” Remus said.
“不是故意的。”雷木斯說。

“Were you expecting me to say something too?”
“你指望我也說點什麼嗎？”

“No, I wasn’t expecting anything.” Remus snapped. “It wasn’t anything to do with you, actually.”
“沒有，我沒有指望任何事。”雷木斯冷冷地說。“這其實和你沒什麼關係。”

“Ok, ok.” Sirius raised his hands in surrender, still looking uncomfortable. “Just… I just thought you might have told me first, that’s all. Given the… situation.”
“好吧，好吧。”小天狼星舉起雙手投降，仍然看起來不舒服。“只是……我只是覺得你可能應該先告訴我，就是這樣。考慮到……情況。”

This caught Remus entirely off guard, and he finally looked at Sirius,
這讓雷木斯完全措手不及，他終於看向小天狼星，

“You mean you didn’t already know?! How could you not know?!”
“你的意思是你早就不知道？！你怎麼會不知道？！”

“You said you weren’t.” Sirius shrugged. “Like I said I wasn’t. Thought we were both on the same page, that’s all.”
“你說過你不是。”小天狼星聳了聳肩。“就像我說的，我也不是。我以為我們都在同一頁上，就這樣。”

Remus found his anger returning. Typical Sirius, never thinking about anything more than his own personal gratification, never once considering that anyone else had feelings or thoughts.
雷木斯發現自己的憤怒回來了。典型的小天狼星，從來不考慮比他自己滿足更重要的事情，從未考慮過其他人有感受或想法。

“Obviously we weren’t.” He said, coldly. “Anyway, I don’t see how it matters now. If that’s all you’re worried about, then don’t. You’re safe.” Remus said, stonily. “I’m not going to tell anyone about you and me, and I doubt anyone suspects you, what with your considerable history with girls. I don’t see why you care so much what I tell people.”
“顯然我們不在同一頁。”他冷冷地說。“無論如何，我現在不明白這有什麼關係。如果這是你唯一擔心的，那就別擔心。你是安全的。”雷木斯冷冷地說。“我不會告訴任何人關於你和我的事，我也懷疑有人會懷疑你，考慮到你與女孩的顯著歷史。我不明白你為什麼這麼在意我告訴別人什麼。”

“I do care.” Sirius protested.
“我在乎。”小天狼星抗議道。

Remus closed his eyes. A few months ago, that would have sounded wonderful. But god, he was so tired.
雷木斯閉上眼睛。幾個月前，這聽起來會很美好。但天啊，他真的很累。

“Remus?!” Sirius sounded half annoyed, half frightened, “I can care about you and not… y’know, not scream it from the rooftops.”
“雷木斯？！”小天狼星聽起來半是煩惱，半是害怕，“我可以在乎你而不……你知道的，不把它大聲說出來。”

“Wanting to get off with me isn’t the same as caring.”
“想和我親密不等於在乎。”

“Remus! Fucking hell, just because I’m not… I haven’t got wherever you have, yet. It doesn’t mean I don’t have the same… ugh, fuck’s sake.” Sirius cursed at his own inarticulacy.
“雷木斯！該死的，就算我還沒有到你那個地步，也不代表我沒有同樣的……唉，該死。”小天狼星詛咒著自己的表達不清。

“And all the girls?” Remus tutted.
“還有那些女孩？”雷木斯嘖嘖道。

“That’s… that’s different.”
“那……那不一樣。”

“Ok.” Remus sighed, his voice empty. He was willing to leave it there. Sirius wasn’t.
“好吧。”雷木斯嘆了口氣，語氣空洞。他願意就此罷休。小天狼星卻沒有。

“You don’t understand.”
“你不懂。”

Remus didn’t say anything He didn’t see that he had to understand. He just had to be the stronger one here.
雷木斯沒有說話。他不覺得自己需要理解。他只是必須在這裡做出更強大的姿態。

Sirius continued, a hand on Remus’s arm. “When I think about myself with them, I can just… see it, y’know? I know how it’s going to play out. I know what I’m s’posed to do. When I think about me and you… you know, the real me and you. It’s just… I can’t see how it ends. I just tried not to think about it. So, I know I was a bit of a dick, I could have handled it better, but I swear, I didn’t want it to end like that.” His breathing was shallow now, Remus could hear his heartrate increasing by the second, “I didn’t want it to end at all, to be honest.”
小天狼星繼續說，一隻手搭在雷木斯的手臂上。“當我想到我和他們在一起時，我可以……看到它，你知道嗎？我知道它會如何展開。我知道我該怎麼做。當我想到我和你……你知道，真正的我和你。就是……我看不出結局。我只是試圖不去想。所以，我知道我有點混蛋，我本可以處理得更好，但我發誓，我不想以那種方式結束。”他現在的呼吸變得淺薄，雷木斯可以聽到他的心跳逐漸加快，“說實話，我不想結束。”

Remus nodded. He pushed Sirius’s hand away, gently, looking out at the sea. He knew Sirius was staring at him, but he kept facing forward.
雷木斯點了點頭。他輕輕地推開小天狼星的手，看向大海。他知道小天狼星在盯著他，但他保持著面向前方。

“Look, Sirius, I don’t mean to be cruel, I do understand all that.” He really did - hadn’t he been over it all, in his own head? “I know it’s not easy for you.”
“聽著，小天狼星，我不是想要殘忍，我確實理解所有這些。”他真的理解——他不曾在自己腦中想過所有這些嗎？ “我知道這對你來說不容易。”

Sirius made a noise of relief at that, seemed to relax slightly. Maybe they were getting somewhere for once.
小天狼星對此發出一聲鬆了口氣的聲音，似乎稍微放鬆了。也許他們終於在進展。

Remus pushed on, “But… it is easy for me. I’m queer, ok? I know when we started I said I wasn’t and… well I shouldn’t have said that, because I am. And I’m not saying you’re queer too, or you have to be, or anything, but I couldn’t carry on the way we were without you… just, I dunno, acknowledging it.”
雷木斯繼續說，“但是……對我來說很容易。我是同性戀，知道嗎？我知道當我們開始的時候我說過我不是……嗯，我不該那麼說，因為我就是。我不是說你也得是同性戀，或者你必須是，什麼的，但我不能在我們之間繼續那樣下去而不……只是，我不知道，承認它。”

Sirius was watching him very closely as he said this, thinking hard. Remus knew how he looked when he was thinking; when he was working a problem through. It wasn’t mischievous, or cheeky, or sarcastic, it was deeply solemn and serious. It was really bloody sexy, actually, but Remus tried to ignore that bit.
小天狼星在他說這些話時非常仔細地看著他，認真思考。雷木斯知道他思考時的模樣；當他解決問題時。他並不是顯得頑皮、無禮或諷刺，而是非常莊嚴和認真。實際上，這非常性感，但雷木斯試圖忽略這一點。

Finally, done thinking, Sirius gave a short nod.
最後，思考完畢，小天狼星點了點頭。

“Ok then.” He said, simply.
“那麼，好吧。”他簡單地說。

“What?!” Remus frowned.
“什麼？！”雷木斯皺起眉頭。

“Fucking acknowledged. Message received.” Sirius stubbed out his cigarette in the wet sand.
“該死的，明白了。信息收到。”小天狼星在濕沙上熄滅了他的煙。

“So… what?” Remus gaped, “We just leave things as they are?”
“所以……怎麼樣？”雷木斯瞪大眼睛說，“我們就這樣保持現狀？”

Sirius scratched behind his ear, looking down, a strange, shy gesture.
小天狼星抓了抓耳朵，低頭，做出一個奇怪而害羞的姿態。

“I’d rather not.”
“我寧願不。”

“You’d rather not.” Remus repeated, dumbfounded.
“你寧願不。”雷木斯重複道，感到困惑。

“No. I mean, if you want me to go ‘round telling everyone I know then sorry, but we’re not all as ballsy as you. I need more time. But… I could try.”
“不。我是說，如果你想讓我到處告訴我認識的人，那就抱歉，但我們不是每個人都像你那樣勇敢。我需要更多的時間。但是……我可以嘗試。”

“You could try.” This was not the outcome Remus had expected when the conversation began. “What do you m--”
“你可以嘗試。”這不是雷木斯開始談話時預期的結果。“你是說——”

Sirius cut him off, placing a palm on Remus’s cheek to turn it towards him, and kissing him gently on the lips.
小天狼星打斷了他，將手掌放在雷木斯的臉頰上，使其轉向自己，並輕輕吻了他的嘴唇。

“I mean I will try.” He said, as he pulled away. “I miss you, Moony.”
“我的意思是我會嘗試。”他說，當他拉開的時候。“我想你了，月亮。”

Oh, you would go and say something like that… Remus grabbed him and pulled him back. It was like water after a drought, shelter in a storm - they were the still point of the turning world and every other stupid sloppy cliché you could think of. They kissed for a long time, and when they came apart they were practically gasping with relief.
哦，你居然會這麼說……雷木斯抓住他，拉回了他。這就像乾旱後的水，風暴中的庇護——他們是旋轉世界中的靜止點，還有其他所有愚蠢而混亂的陳詞濫調。他們親吻了很長時間，當他們分開時，他們幾乎是喘著氣來表示鬆了口氣。

“No more girls?” Remus asked, still holding Sirius in place, as if he might run away.
“沒有更多女孩了？”雷木斯問，仍然抓住小天狼星，好像他可能會逃跑。

“No more girls.” Sirius agreed. “Let’s see how this pans out first.”
“沒有更多女孩了。”小天狼星同意道。“我們先看看這怎麼發展。”

“Oh, charming.” Remus let go, satisfied.
“哦，迷人。”雷木斯放開他，滿意地說。

“Shuddup,” Sirius nudged him with his shoulder, hands deep inside his pockets. “C’mon, let’s go back to the tent eh? Freezing.”
“閉嘴，”小天狼星用肩膀碰了碰他，雙手深深插在口袋裡。“來吧，我們回去帳篷吧？冷得要命。”

They walked towards the tents and the dying fire with their backs to the wind.
他們背對著風走向帳篷和漸漸熄滅的火堆。

“I think I’m drunk,” Remus said, shakily. He felt all stirred up. “I make bad decisions when I’m drunk.”
“我想我醉了，”雷木斯顫抖地說。他感覺到一切都在動搖。“我醉酒時會做出糟糕的決定。”

Sirius laughed and squeezed his shoulder quickly,
小天狼星笑了，快速地擁抱了他的肩膀，

“I know. I promise this isn’t one of them.”
“我知道。我保證這不是其中之一。”

“Ok.” I’m trusting you...
“好吧。”我相信你……

Unfortunately, they found that none of the tents were available any more. The tent Remus had been sharing with Pete was well and truly occupied, by the sounds of it. Sirius grimaced, and cast a fresh silencing spell over the flagging one.
不幸的是，他們發現再也沒有帳篷可用。雷木斯曾經和皮特共用的帳篷聽起來已經被佔用了。小天狼星皺起了眉頭，並在那個逐漸變弱的帳篷上施加了新的靜音咒。

“Amateurs.” He muttered.
“業餘人士。”他低聲咕噥。

There was a silencing spell cast over James and Sirius’s tent too. Mary poked her head out of the next one along, giggling,
詹姆斯和小天狼星的帳篷上也施了靜音咒。瑪麗探出頭來，笑著說，

“It’s James and Lily!”
“是詹姆斯和莉莉！”

“Are you serious?!” Sirius gaped. “Bloody hell. I mean… wow, I sort of want to go in and shake his hand.”
“你是認真的嗎？！”小天狼星瞪大了眼睛。“該死。我是說……哇，我有點想進去和他握手。”

“I’ve a feeling his hands are busy,” Remus raised an eyebrow.
“我覺得他的手可能很忙，”雷木斯抬起眉毛說。

“Want to get in with me, Remus?” Mary asked, tipsily.
“想和我一起進去嗎，雷木斯？”瑪麗醉醺醺地問。

“What about Sirius?”
“那小天狼星呢？”

“Oh, right… ugh fine, I’ll get in with Marls. Night, lads.” She crawled across the grass into Marlene’s tent.
“哦，對了……唉，好吧，我和瑪琳斯一起去。晚安，伙計們。”她爬過草地進入瑪琳的帳篷。

Sirius and Remus looked at each other for a few moments, before Sirius climbed in first. The girls’ tent was much more comfortable than theirs, stuffed with blankets and pillows and a plump blow up mattress.
小天狼星和雷木斯對視了幾秒鐘，小天狼星首先爬了進去。女孩們的帳篷比他們的舒適得多，擺滿了毛毯和枕頭，以及一個豐滿的充氣床墊。

(((((以下AI自己創作

“Nice,” Remus said, appreciatively.
“很好，”雷木斯讚賞道。

“Yeah, not bad.” Sirius said, closing the flap behind them. He pulled off his boots and started to get comfortable,
“嗯，不錯。”小天狼星說，關上帳篷的門簾。他脫下靴子，開始讓自己舒服下來，

“Well, this is going to be interesting.”
“嗯，這將會很有趣。”

Remus chuckled softly. He settled down next to Sirius, letting himself relax.
雷木斯輕聲笑了。他坐在小天狼星旁邊，讓自己放鬆下來。

They were nearly asleep when the flap of the tent opened again.
他們幾乎要入睡時，帳篷的門簾再次打開。

“What’s up?” Sirius mumbled sleepily, looking towards the opening.
“怎麼了？”小天狼星困倦地嘟囔道，朝開口處看去。

“Got more stuff,” Mary said, lugging a large bag in.
“拿到了更多東西，”瑪麗說，拖著一個大袋子進來。

“What more stuff?” Sirius asked, rubbing his eyes.
“什麼更多的東西？”小天狼星問，揉了揉眼睛。

“Groceries,” Mary replied, setting the bag down.
“食品雜貨，”瑪麗回答，放下袋子。

“Can’t we deal with this in the morning?” Remus said, feeling the weight of his own exhaustion.
“我們不能早上再處理嗎？”雷木斯說，感受到自己疲憊的重量。

“No time like the present,” Mary said cheerfully, “It’s a bloody mess in there.”
“沒有比現在更好的時候，”瑪麗高興地說，“裡面是一團糟。”

“Oh for Merlin’s sake.” Sirius sighed and rubbed his face.
“哦，為了梅林的 sake。”小天狼星嘆了口氣，揉了揉他的臉。

“Well, let’s see it then.” Remus said, reluctantly.
“那麼，讓我們看看吧。”雷木斯不情願地說。

Mary proceeded to unpack a variety of food items - several loaves of bread, some jars of jam, a selection of cheeses, cold cuts, fruit, and even a bottle of firewhisky.
瑪麗繼續拆包各種食品——幾條麵包，一些果醬罐，幾種奶酪，冷切肉，水果，甚至還有一瓶火焰威士忌。

“Best lay these out.” She said, sorting through it all. “No point in having all this stuff hidden away.”
“最好把這些都擺出來。”她說，整理這些東西。“把這些東西藏起來也沒意義。”

Sirius and Remus exchanged a look, then Sirius sighed and sat up.
小天狼星和雷木斯互相對視了一下，然後小天狼星嘆了口氣，坐了起來。

“Alright,” Sirius said, reaching for the fruit. “If we’re doing this, let’s do it properly.”
“好吧，”小天狼星說，伸手拿起水果。“如果我們要這樣做，那就好好做吧。”

They spent the next hour arranging the food and sorting out the mess, all the while trying to keep their eyes open. Mary was cheerful and lively, chatting away as if it were a perfectly normal time for organizing a picnic.
接下來的一個小時，他們安排食物並整理混亂，同時努力保持清醒。瑪麗愉快而充滿活力，一邊聊天，一邊像是整理野餐一樣完全正常。

Finally, the tent was in order, and they settled down to enjoy the feast.
最後，帳篷整理好了，他們開始享受這頓大餐。

The food was good, and the firewhisky was even better. They relaxed into the cushions, and the conversation flowed easily. Remus felt himself unwinding, feeling grateful for the unexpected turn of events.
食物很好，火焰威士忌更好。他們放鬆地坐在墊子上，談話流暢。雷木斯感覺自己放鬆了，對意外的變故心懷感激。

Sirius kept his arm around Remus’s shoulders, and Remus found comfort in the simple, affectionate gesture.
小天狼星一直把手臂搭在雷木斯的肩膀上，雷木斯在這個簡單而親昵的姿態中找到了安慰。

Mary chatted on about all sorts of things, ranging from the latest gossip to her own amusing anecdotes. The atmosphere was warm and inviting, and for the first time in what felt like forever, Remus allowed himself to fully relax.
瑪麗談論著各種各樣的事情，從最新的八卦到她自己有趣的趣事。氣氛溫馨而宜人，雷木斯第一次感覺像是永遠一樣，允許自己完全放鬆。

As the evening wore on, the conversation became more subdued, and eventually, Mary decided it was time for bed. She bade them goodnight and retreated to her own tent, leaving Sirius and Remus alone together.
隨著晚上的推移，談話變得更加平靜，最終，瑪麗決定該上床睡覺了。她向他們道晚安，退回到自己的帳篷裡，留下小天狼星和雷木斯獨處。

Sirius and Remus sat in comfortable silence, the flickering light of the lantern casting soft shadows around them.
小天狼星和雷木斯坐在舒適的靜默中，燈籠的微光在他們周圍投下柔和的影子。

Eventually, Sirius turned to Remus, his expression thoughtful.
最終，小天狼星轉向雷木斯，他的表情沉思。

“So, how’s it feel to be out here with me, just us?”
“所以，和我單獨在這裡的感覺如何？”

Remus smiled softly, reaching out to take Sirius’s hand.
雷木斯輕輕微笑，伸手握住小天狼星的手。

“It feels right,” he said. “Feels like home.”
“感覺對，”他說。“感覺像家一樣。”

Sirius squeezed his hand gently, a warm smile spreading across his face.
小天狼星輕輕握住他的手，臉上展開了一個溫暖的微笑。

“Good,” he said. “Because I wouldn’t want it any other way.”
“很好，”他說。“因為我不想要其他任何方式。”

)))))

“Oh, right… ugh fine, I’ll get in with Marls. Night, lads.” She crawled across the grass into Marlene’s tent. 「哦，對了……唉，好吧，我和Marls一起去。晚安，伙計們。」她爬過草地進入Marlene的帳篷。

Sirius and Remus looked at each other for a few moments, before Sirius climbed in first. The girls’ tent was much more comfortable than theirs, stuffed with blankets and pillows and a plump blow up mattress. Sirius和Remus對視了幾秒鐘，然後Sirius首先爬了進去。女孩們的帳篷比他們的舒適得多，擺滿了毛毯和枕頭，以及一個豐滿的充氣床墊。

“Knew we should have got the muggleborns to sort us out.” Sirius grumbled, as he settled in. The mattress was old and sank slightly in the middle, rolling them together in an almost comical way. In the end, the only way to get comfortable was to curl up like spoons. 「早知道我們應該讓麻瓜出生的人來幫我們整理。」Sirius抱怨道，當他安頓下來時。床墊很舊，中間微微下沉，把他們滑到一起，幾乎是滑稽的方式。最後，唯一舒服的方法是像湯匙一樣蜷縮在一起。

“This ok?” Remus asked, as he slipped an arm around Sirius’s waist. 「這樣可以嗎？」Remus問道，將手臂繞過Sirius的腰。

“Of course.” Sirius replied. 「當然。」Sirius回答。

“We could just sleep…” 「我們可以就這樣睡……」

“Sonoro Quiescis.” 「Sonoro Quiescis。」

“Ah, ok…” 「啊，好吧……」

Well. It had been a while. 嗯，已經有一段時間了。

Afterwards, Remus felt more awake than he ever had in his life. His brain was buzzing with questions, declarations, thoughts, words. It felt like coming out of hiding, like pulling back a disguise he had worn too long. He wanted to bear every bit of himself to Sirius; he wanted Sirius to see him, 事後，Remus感覺比他一生中任何時候都更加清醒。他的大腦充滿了問題、聲明、想法、話語。這感覺就像從隱藏中出來，像是脫下他戴了太久的偽裝。他想向Sirius展現自己的一切；他希望Sirius能看到他，

“Sirius?” 「Sirius？」

“Mmhh?” 「嗯？」

“There’s something else I need to tell you.” 「還有一件事我需要告訴你。」

“Oh merlin,” Sirius groaned, rolling onto his back, sleepily, “What now?” 「哦，梅林啊，」Sirius呻吟道，困倦地翻身仰躺，「現在什麼事？」

“I’m um… well, I’m homeless.” 「我是……嗯，我是無家可歸。」

“What?!” Sirius opened his eyes and turned around at once, “What??” 「什麼？！」Sirius立刻睜開眼睛轉過身來，「什麼？」

“Since I turned seventeen. Y’know, I’m of age now, so…” 「自從我滿十七歲。你知道的，我現在已經成年了，所以……」

“So they just chucked you out?” 「所以他們就把你趕出來了？」

Remus nodded, glad to share the problem. Remus點了點頭，對能夠分享這個問題感到高興。

“Yeah, so once Hogwarts finishes next summer I’ve got nowhere to go…” 「是的，所以一旦霍格華茲明年夏天結束，我就無處可去……」

“Bastards.” Sirius said angrily. He looked at Remus very seriously, “You can stay with me and James, at the Potters. They won’t mind, I know they won’t. Then when school’s finished we’ll find our own place.” 「混蛋。」Sirius憤怒地說。他非常認真地看著Remus，「你可以和我還有James住在Potters家。他們不會介意的，我知道他們不會。然後學校結束後我們會找到自己的地方。」

“We will?!” Remus raised his eyebrows. 「我們會嗎？！」Remus揚起眉毛。

“Yeah!” Sirius replied, happily, folding his arms behind his head, “It’ll be just like school - you, me, James and Pete, all together.” 「是的！」Sirius高興地回答，將手臂交叉在頭後，「這就像學校一樣——你、我、James和Pete，大家在一起。」

“Oh,” Remus realised what he’d meant. “Yeah, sounds great. I’ve a bit of money Lyall left me.” 「哦，」Remus意識到他的意思。「是的，聽起來很棒。我還有一些Lyall留下的錢。」

“Pfft.” Sirius replied, “I’ve got enough money for all of us, don’t worry about that.” 「切。」Sirius回答，「我的錢足夠我們所有人，不用擔心這個。」

“Ok,” Remus said. “I won’t worry.” 「好吧。」Remus說。「我不會擔心。」

“Go to sleep,” Sirius said, “Or you’ll be knackered tomorrow.” 「去睡覺吧。」Sirius說，「否則你明天會累壞的。」

“Ok,” Remus repeated, closing his eyes. 「好吧。」Remus重複道，閉上了眼睛。

Chapter 116~120Chapter Summary

116. Summer 1977: Part 3 (2017-11-20)
117. Summer 1977: Part 4 (2017-11-22)
118. Summer 1977: Part 5 (2017-11-27)
119. Seventh Year: Back to School (2017-12-04)
120. Seventh Year: Thunder (2017-12-06)

Chapter 116: Summer 1977: Part 3 

Remus woke up and stretched beneath bright canvas, Sirius breathing lightly beside him. It was a little bit too warm and sticky, but he wouldn’t have moved for anything. Lying peacefully under the blankets, he could still taste the salt on Sirius’s skin, feel his heartbeat. At the bottom of the sleeping bag, their feet were tangled together. Remus在明亮的帆布下醒來並伸了個懶腰，Sirius在他身旁輕輕地呼吸著。天氣有點太熱和黏膩，但他什麼也不願意動。安靜地躺在毯子下，他仍然能夠品嚐到Sirius皮膚上的鹽味，感受到他的心跳。在睡袋的底部，他們的腳纏在一起。

Sirius stirred, screwing up his face before he opened his eyes. Sirius動了一下，皺著臉然後睜開眼睛。

“Morning.” 「早安。」

“Morning.” 「早安。」

“Fuck me, my mouth is dry.” 「見鬼，我的嘴巴好乾。」

“Yeah, mine too,” Remus agreed, running his tongue over his teeth. All that cider. “I could go and get some water from the pump?” 「是啊，我也是，」Remus同意道，舌頭在牙齒上滑過。都是那該死的蘋果酒。「我可以去泵那邊取點水嗎？」

“Yeah, we’ll both go. Reckon anyone else is up?” 「嗯，我們一起去。你覺得還有誰醒了嗎？」

Remus listened carefully, then shook his head. He hoped Sirius wasn’t worried about getting caught - surely no one could question their sharing a tent? What else could they have done? It was probably a bit early to start interrogating Sirius, so Remus held his tongue as they dressed quietly and quickly, fishing about in the bottom of the bed for their clothes, which seemed to have scattered in the night. Remus仔細聽了一下，然後搖了搖頭。他希望Sirius不會擔心被發現——沒有人會質疑他們共用一個帳篷吧？他們還能怎麼做呢？現在開始盤問Sirius可能有點早，所以Remus保持沉默，他們安靜迅速地穿好衣服，從床底下找出他們的衣服，這些衣服似乎在晚上四處散落。

Clambering out and blinking hard against the bright daylight, Remus thought that everything seemed to look different. The same; but not quite as he’d remembered it before. More realistic; solid and anchored down. 爬出帳篷並對抗明亮的日光眨著眼睛，Remus覺得一切看起來都不一樣了。相同的，但並不像他之前記得的那樣。更真實；堅實且穩定。

They sauntered off in the direction of the water pump with their canteens, and as they walked, they fell into step, and Remus felt as though his heart would burst with joy. Stupid, really, such a small thing. The campsite was lovely and peaceful, sparrows darting between the trees overhead, and the occasional camper popping their head out and wishing a polite ‘good morning’ to the boys as they passed. 他們拿著水壺朝水泵的方向漫步走去，走著走著，他們步調一致，Remus覺得自己的心幾乎要因為喜悅而爆炸。真的很愚蠢，這麼小的事情。營地非常可愛和平靜，麻雀在樹上飛來飛去，偶爾有露營者探出頭來，經過時禮貌地對男孩們說「早安」。

The water pump was by the shower block, and they both ducked in to wash their faces quickly, before filling their canteens, as well as the others they’d brought. 水泵在淋浴間旁邊，他們都迅速低頭洗了臉，然後填滿他們的水壺，以及其他他們帶來的水壺。

“Shop sells pasties,” Sirius said, thoughtfully, nodding in the direction of a little wooden hut with a blue and white striped awning, “Shall we get some for breakfast, return to the camp as heroes?” 「小店賣餡餅，」Sirius若有所思地說，點頭指著一個有藍白條紋遮陽篷的小木屋，「我們買些當早餐，回營地當英雄？」

“Good idea,” Remus smiled, shyly. 「好主意，」Remus害羞地笑了笑。

They bought far too many Cornish pasties, but they were fresh out of the oven, flaky and buttery and warm, and Sirius had no impulse control. 他們買了太多康沃爾餡餅，但它們是剛出爐的，酥脆、奶油味濃且溫暖，而Sirius無法控制衝動。

Back at the tents, no one had stirred yet, apparently, so Remus and Sirius decided they would take their breakfast on the beach. They sat on a sand dune, side by side, munching peacefully and licking the grease from their fingers afterwards. 回到帳篷時，顯然沒有人醒來，所以Remus和Sirius決定在海灘上吃早餐。他們並排坐在沙丘上，平靜地咀嚼著，然後舔掉手指上的油脂。

“I could get used to this,” Sirius said with a grin, rubbing his hands on his jeans, sighing happily at the view. The sand had been washed clean overnight by the tide. Everything was perfect and unblemished. “Never been on a proper holiday before.” 「我可以習慣這樣的生活，」Sirius笑著說，用手在牛仔褲上擦了擦手，滿意地看著風景嘆氣。沙子在夜間被潮水洗得乾乾淨淨。一切都完美無瑕。「以前從來沒有真正度過假。」

“Me neither.” 「我也沒有。」

Remus wiped his own hands on his corduroy trousers and picked restlessly at the grass. Remus在燈芯絨褲子上擦了擦手，不安地撥弄著草。

“Oi,” Sirius said, “What’s up Moony? We said no worrying.” 「喂，」Sirius說，「怎麼了Moony？我們說好了不擔心的。」

“Sorry.” 「對不起。」

“What’s up?” 「怎麼了？」

“I was just wondering something. It’s stupid, don’t worry.” 「我只是在想些事情。這很蠢，不用擔心。」

They were quiet again. Remus fidgeted some more. He sighed. “Why me?” He asked, quietly. 他們再次沉默。Remus又坐立不安了一會兒。他嘆了口氣。「為什麼是我？」他輕聲問道。

“Hm?” 「嗯？」

“…why me, in the first place? Why not James, or… literally anyone else? Is it just because… is it because I let you? Path of least resistance?” 「……一開始為什麼是我？為什麼不是James，或者……其他任何人？是不是因為……是因為我讓你這麼做？因為這是阻力最小的道路？」

“Obviously not.” Sirius scoffed, frowning. “What do you mean why not James? I don’t fancy James.” 「顯然不是。」Sirius嗤之以鼻，皺著眉頭。「你說的為什麼不是James是什麼意思？我不喜歡James。」

“You… oh.” 「你……哦。」

“I think we can at least admit we fancy each other.” Sirius raised an eyebrow, thumbing Remus’s hip through the thin fabric of his t-shirt. Remus nodded, 「我想我們至少可以承認我們彼此喜歡。」Sirius揚起眉毛，用拇指輕輕觸碰Remus薄薄的T恤布料下的臀部。Remus點了點頭，

“Yeah. I just thought. I dunno.” 「是的。我只是想。我不知道。」

“We never touched, much.” 「我們以前幾乎沒有接觸過。」

“What?” 「什麼？」

“Before all the shagging.” Sirius said, matter-of-factly. “I used to wrestle with James all the time, and we used to share a bed sometimes and everything. Not you. You kept yourself separate. No touching.” 「在所有性愛之前。」Sirius事不關己地說。「我以前經常和James摔跤，我們有時還會共用一張床，還有很多事情。但是你不一樣。你總是把自己隔離開來。沒有接觸。」

“I was… shy.” 「我……害羞。」

“It got me curious, I s’pose. One Christmas, remember when Andromeda came to the Potters? I was really nervy, convinced my mother was coming to get me every five minutes, I jumped whenever the door went.” 「這讓我很好奇，我猜。某個聖誕節，你記得Andromeda來Potters家的時候嗎？我真的很緊張，每五分鐘都覺得我媽媽要來抓我，門鈴響的時候我都會嚇一跳。」

“I remember.” Remus said, softly. “Third year.” 「我記得。」Remus輕聲說。「三年級。」

“Well, the door went, and I was bricking it, we were on the landing, I think. You sort of squeezed my shoulder and… well it just felt really nice. It meant more, because it was you. I felt like you’d… I dunno, chosen me, or something. Couldn’t get you out of my head for weeks.” 「嗯，門鈴響了，我嚇壞了，我們好像在樓梯口。你捏了捏我的肩膀……感覺真的很好。這意義更大，因為那是你。我覺得你……我不知道，選擇了我，還是什麼。好幾個星期都無法把你從腦海中揮去。」

“We were fourteen!” 「我們當時十四歲！」

“So?” 「那又怎樣？」

“You and Mary started going out not long after that.” 「不久之後你和Mary開始交往。」

“Yeah, look how that turned out.” Sirius huffed a laugh. Remus laughed too, despite himself. “Then on your birthday,” Sirius said, his voice faltering a bit, as if it was a difficult thing for him to talk about. “You… you kissed me.” 「是啊，看結果怎麼樣。」Sirius笑了一聲。Remus也忍不住笑了起來。「然後在你生日那天，」Sirius說，他的聲音有些顫抖，彷彿這對他來說是件難以啟齒的事。「你……你吻了我。」

“I did.” Remus replied, steadily. “Sorry.” 「我吻了。」Remus平穩地回答。「對不起。」

“I didn't expect it, it was so out of the blue. I’d been thinking about you, before that, but I didn’t really know… I didn’t know that I was thinking about that. Then I thought… maybe it was my fault, like I’d given off some message, like I’d tricked you into it or something.” 「我沒想到，這來得太突然了。在那之前我一直在想你，但我真的不知道……我不知道我在想那個。然後我想……也許是我的錯，好像我發出了一些訊息，好像我騙你去做了那件事。」

“What?! No! Trust me, I very much wanted to kiss you.” 「什麼？！不！相信我，我非常想吻你。」

“Oh. Good. Because I just felt so awful about it, y’know - it was your first kiss, and I went and mucked it all up.” 「哦。那就好。因為我感覺真的很糟糕，你知道的——那是你的初吻，而我把一切都搞砸了。」

“Er…” Remus sighed, “Look, while we’re being honest, you might as well know - it wasn’t my first kiss.” 「呃……」Remus嘆了口氣，「看，在我們坦誠相待的時候，你也該知道——那不是我的初吻。」

“What?!” 「什麼？！」

“Yeah… the summer before, I sort of met someone. I never told any of you. I didn’t… I didn’t want you to know I was queer.” 「是啊……去年夏天，我遇到了一個人。我從來沒告訴過你們。我不想讓你們知道我是同性戀。」

“That boy.” Sirius said, suddenly, “At the muggle squat, in Mile End.” 「那個男孩。」Sirius突然說，「在Mile End的麻瓜窩。」

“His name’s Grant.” Remus explained. 「他叫Grant。」Remus解釋道。

“Well, I hate him.” 「嗯，我討厭他。」

Remus laughed. Remus笑了。

“That’s ok, he’s so nice he won’t even mind.” 「沒關係，他人很好，他不會介意的。」

“I hate him even more.” 「我更討厭他了。」

“I ought to try and see him this summer. He’s been so good to me, you don’t even know the half of it.” 「我應該試著今年夏天去見他。他對我很好，你根本不知道一半。」

“I’ll go with you, if you want.” 「如果你想，我可以陪你去。」

“...thanks, that's kind.” 「……謝謝，這很貼心。」

“Moony,” Sirius said, quietly. 「Moony，」Sirius輕聲說。

“Mm?” 「嗯？」

“I’m really sorry about everything.” 「我真的很抱歉，關於所有的事情。」

“It’s ok.” 「沒事。」

“It’s not.” 「不，沒事。」

“It is.” 「真的沒事。」

“It’s n—” 「這不是——」

“Sirius! For god’s sake, you can’t even apologise without starting a fight. I’m telling you – it’s ok. I was being unfair. I think… I think I was asking you for something I don’t even understand properly myself. Loyalty or love or whatever.” 「Sirius！拜託，你甚至連道歉都要吵架。我告訴你——真的沒事。我之前不公平。我想……我想我要求你一些我自己都不完全理解的東西。忠誠或愛，或者其他的。」

“I do love you, Moony. I love all of you; you, James, Peter.” 「我真的愛你，Moony。我愛你們所有人；你、James、Peter。」

“Yeah,” Remus sighed. He closed his eyes, as if to re-set the conversation. When he opened them again, Sirius looked anxious. Remus smiled, reassuringly, “Looking forward to seventh year?” 「是的，」Remus嘆了口氣。他閉上眼睛，彷彿是要重新開始對話。當他再次睜開眼睛時，Sirius看起來很焦慮。Remus微笑著，安慰道，「期待七年級嗎？」

“Dunno. Bit scary, isn’t it?” 「不知道。有點嚇人，不是嗎？」

“You mean the war?” 「你是說戰爭嗎？」

“The war.” Sirius agreed, “Other stuff too. Last year before we have to grow up.” 「戰爭。」Sirius同意道，「還有其他的東西。在我們不得不成長之前的最後一年。」

Remus laughed, softly, Remus輕聲笑了，

“I don’t think you’ll ever grow up, Padfoot.” 「我覺得你永遠不會成長，Padfoot。」

“I’ve been so selfish.” Sirius had turned melancholy again. 「我一直很自私。」Sirius又變得憂鬱起來。

“I said it’s fine.” 「我說了沒事。」

“It’s not, though,” his brow creased slightly, as he searched for the words he needed. Remus held his breath, not sure what was coming, but somehow knowing he needed to hear it. “You have so many secrets, and it must be so shit, keeping things back,” Sirius began, gaining momentum the more he spoke, “And I made it all worse, I just gave you more things to hide…” 「但是，這真的不是沒事，」他的眉頭微微皺起，搜尋著他需要的詞語。Remus屏住呼吸，不確定接下來會發生什麼，但他知道自己需要聽到這些。「你有那麼多秘密，保持這些秘密一定很糟糕，」Sirius開始說，隨著他說得越多，動力越大，「而我讓一切變得更糟糕，我只是讓你有更多的東西要隱藏……」

I’ve loved keeping your secret, Remus wanted to say, I’d keep a thousand more, for you. He knew that this line of thinking could only make things worse, so he said nothing. Sirius risked reaching out, grasping Remus’s hand and holding it. Remus squeezed back. Remus想說，我喜歡保守你的秘密，我願意為你保守千萬個秘密。他知道這種想法只會讓事情變得更糟，所以他什麼也沒說。Sirius冒險伸出手，握住了Remus的手。Remus回握。

“It’s not that I’m ashamed of you, or this, it’s… a million other things. I wish I could tell everyone, I wish I was ready. I will be, Moony, I promise.” 「不是我對你感到羞恥，或是這一切，只是……有千千萬萬的其他事情。我希望我能告訴每個人，我希望我已經準備好了。我會的，Moony，我保證。」

Sirius looked at him, full of pleading. Remus forgave him wholeheartedly. It wasn’t difficult to meet his eyes any more. Sirius看著他，滿是懇求。Remus全心全意地原諒了他。再也不難與他的眼神相遇。

“James seemed… pretty ok with me being queer.” Remus prompted, quietly. He felt a bit underhanded, bringing up James - James belonged to Sirius, it wasn’t Remus’s business to interfere. 「James看起來……對我同性戀這件事還挺好的。」Remus輕聲提到。他覺得這有點卑鄙，提起James——James屬於Sirius，這不是Remus該干涉的事。

“Of course he was, the beautiful bastard,” Sirius snorted, “Fucking prince among men, isn’t he? I know. I know he’d probably be fine with this, even,” he gripped Remus’s fingers, “But… He’s my best friend, and I just don’t want that to change yet. I wouldn’t want to be alone with him and have him wondering… Even if he wasn’t thinking about it, I would be.” 「當然，他那個美麗的混蛋，」Sirius哼了一聲，「男人中的王子，不是嗎？我知道。我知道他可能對這一切都沒什麼問題，甚至，」他握住Remus的手指，「但是……他是我最好的朋友，我只是不想讓這改變。我不想和他單獨相處，然後讓他猜測……即使他不在想這件事，我也會在想。」

“Ok,” Remus said. He was agreeing to everything, he knew it was stupid. But it was so easy now. 「好吧，」Remus說。他同意了所有的事情，他知道這很愚蠢。但現在這樣真的很容易。

“Morning, lads!” Mary yelled from the campsite, Sirius pulled his hand back, quickly, giving Remus an apologetic glance, “Cheers for the pasties!” 「早安，伙計們！」Mary從營地喊道，Sirius迅速把手收回來，歉意地看了Remus一眼，「謝謝你們的餡餅！」

They both turned around and waved at her. Sirius got up, extending an arm to help Remus to his feet. 他們都轉過身來，朝她揮手。Sirius站起來，伸出手臂幫助Remus起身。

“C’mon,” he said, eyes twinkling, “I can’t wait to rip the shit out of Prongs for finally getting his leg over.” 「來吧，」他說，眼睛閃閃發光，「我迫不及待地想取笑Prongs終於得手了。」

“Not in front of Lily!” Remus cautioned, “She’ll curse your knob off.” 「不要在Lily面前！」Remus警告道，「她會詛咒你的。」

“Well, can’t have that, I’m very attached to my knob.” 「那可不行，我很喜歡我的。」

“Sirius?” 「Sirius？」

“Remus?” 「Remus？」

“This isn’t just for the summer, is it?” 「這不僅僅是夏天的事，對吧？」

Sirius looked at him and grinned. Sirius看著他，笑了。

“I bloody hope not.” 「我真的希望不是。」

 

 

Fortunately, no one was much interested in whatever Sirius and Remus had been up to the night before, because everybody else's night had been just as eventful. Peter gave him a bit of a wary look, but that might have been the hangover. Mary was grinning at everyone like the cat who’d got the cream, picking at her pasty and trying to catch Lily’s eye. 「幸運的是，沒有人太在意Sirius和Remus昨晚做了什麼，因為每個人的夜晚都同樣充滿了事件。Peter有點警惕地看著他，但那可能是宿醉的緣故。Mary笑得像隻得了奶油的貓，吃著餡餅，試圖引起Lily的注意。」

Marlene was bundled up in blankets, looking very green around the gills and giving out the occasional moan. 「Marlene裹在毯子裡，臉色蒼白，不時發出呻吟。」

“Alright, Marls?” Remus asked, gently. 「還好嗎，Marls？」Remus輕聲問道。

“Mmmmph.” 「嗯嗯。」

“Poor love,” Mary tutted, patting her friend’s blonde head gently, “Went a bit hard on the Old Rosie, didn’t you? Still, could be worse. Dorcas hasn’t come back from the loo’s, yet.” 「可憐的愛人，」Mary咂嘴，輕輕拍著朋友的金髮頭，「你喝Old Rosie喝得太多了，不是嗎？不過，還好，Dorcas還沒從廁所回來呢。」

James and Lily were sitting next to each other, but not too close. Lily had scraped her hair back in a pigtail, and was consciously staring at the ground, eating her pasty with a kind of quiet resignation. James looked absolutely chuffed, but was trying not to show it too much. 「James和Lily坐在一起，但不是很近。Lily把頭髮紮成馬尾辮，有意識地盯著地面，帶著一種安靜的無奈吃著餡餅。James看起來非常高興，但試圖不表現得太明顯。」

“So…” Mary grinned, widely, looking around at everyone, “We’ll stick with the new sleeping arrangements for the rest of the week, then, shall we?” 「那麼……」Mary大笑著，看著大家，「我們這週就繼續用新的睡覺安排，是嗎？」

“Suits me.” Sirius said, casually. 「對我來說沒問題。」Sirius隨意地說。

“And me,” Peter nodded, mouth full of mince. 「我也是，」Peter點頭，嘴裡塞滿了肉餡。

Marlene gave a silent, queasy thumbs up. James and Lily looked at each other, then looked away. 「Marlene默默地舉起了一個噁心的拇指。James和Lily互相看了一眼，然後轉開目光。」

Once everyone had finished eating, the girls arranged an expedition to the shower block. The boys followed after, towels under their arms and Sirius teased James mercilessly. 「大家吃完後，女孩們安排了一次去淋浴間的探險。男孩們跟在後面，胳膊下夾著毛巾，Sirius無情地戲弄James。」

“No, go away, I’m not telling you anything.” James laughed. 「不，走開，我不會告訴你任何事情。」James笑著說。

“This is purely for academic purposes,” Sirius chided, “It’s going to be a matter of historical interest, future generations will need to know what miraculous feats you had to perform in order to finally convince Evans to--” 「這純粹是為了學術目的，」Sirius責備道，「這將是一個歷史興趣的問題，未來的世代需要知道你必須做出什麼奇蹟般的壯舉才能最終說服Evans——」

“We just talked!” 「我們只是聊天！」

“Oh, so the silencing spell was for…?” 「哦，那麼消音咒是為了……？」

James turned bright red and disappeared inside a shower cubicle. Sirius chucked triumphantly. 「James臉紅了，消失在淋浴間裡。Sirius得意地笑了。」

“Doesn’t anyone want to know about me and Dorcas?” Peter asked, innocently. 「沒人想知道我和Dorcas的事嗎？」Peter天真地問道。

The castle ruins were about five miles walk, which nobody seemed to think was too far at all. Marlene had perked up a bit after showering and eating, and everyone decided that fresh air was probably the best cure for a hangover. They zipped up their tents, stuffing valuables into rucksacks - along with some leftover pasties and bottles of water - and set off around eleven. 「城堡遺址大約有五英里的步行路程，似乎沒有人覺得這太遠了。Marlene在洗澡和吃飯後精神好多了，大家決定新鮮空氣可能是宿醉最好的解藥。他們拉上帳篷的拉鍊，把貴重物品塞進背包——還有一些剩下的餡餅和瓶裝水——大約在十一點出發。」

They followed a footpath along the shoreline, which curled around and gradually steepened into a cliff. The view at the top was breath-taking, but Remus was struggling to enjoy it much - his eyes watered and his legs burned with the effort of clambering uphill. Sirius, Marlene and Mary had raced to the top; Marlene coming first despite her queasiness. James surprised Remus by slowing down to match his own shambling crawl. 「他們沿著海岸線的小路走，小路繞著彎逐漸變成陡峭的懸崖。山頂的景色令人嘆為觀止，但Remus很難享受——他眼睛流淚，腿因爬山的努力而灼熱。Sirius、Marlene和Mary已經賽跑到了頂端；儘管感到噁心，Marlene還是第一個到達。James放慢腳步以配合他自己的蹣跚爬行，這讓Remus感到驚訝。」

“Alright there, Moony?” He asked, cheerfully. 「還好嗎，Moony？」他愉快地問道。

“Brilliant,” Remus panted, not sure if he was pulling off sarcasm or just sounded like a terrible liar. 「太棒了，」Remus喘著氣，不確定自己是在諷刺還是聽起來像個糟糕的騙子。」

“We’re in no rush, take it easy.” 「我們不著急，慢慢來。」

“Hmmph.” 「哼。」

“Padfoot wasn’t too much of a tosser last night, was he? About the whole… er… about the stuff you told us?” 「Padfoot昨晚沒有太過分吧，關於整個……呃……關於你告訴我們的事情？」

Remus shook his head, focussing on breathing, and the horrible grind-click noise that hard started happening in his hip every time he stepped forward. 「Remus搖了搖頭，專注於呼吸，以及每次向前走時他臀部發出的可怕的磨擦聲。」

“Good,” James nodded, relieved, “I just worried he might be, y’know what his family was like about that kind of thing. Was in two minds about leaving him alone with you to be honest, but I thought you’d just give him a thump if he got out of order.” 「很好，」James點頭，鬆了口氣，「我只是擔心他可能會，你知道他的家庭對那種事情的看法。老實說，我對讓他和你單獨在一起有點猶豫，但我想如果他失控了，你會給他一拳。」

“Everything’s fine,” Remus wheezed, “Don’t worry.” 「一切都好，」Remus喘著氣說，「別擔心。」

“Good.” James said again, and stopped, because Remus had. Just for a moment. 「很好。」James再次說，然後停下來，因為Remus停下來了。只是片刻。

The other six had crested the hill now, and were disappearing down the other side. They’d only been walking for twenty minutes, Remus thought grimly. He wondered if he could apparate ahead - but the ‘deliberation’ part would be difficult, without a map, or having seen the place before. He was embarrassed, having James stay back with him, but at least it wasn’t one of the girls. 「其他六個人已經登上了山頂，並消失在另一邊。他們只走了二十分鐘，Remus陰鬱地想。他想知道自己是否可以先幻影移形——但沒有地圖或以前見過這個地方的話，‘慎思’部分會很困難。他對James留在他身邊感到尷尬，但至少不是其中一個女孩。」

“Sorry,” he said, wiping sweat from his brow, “Usually not as bad this far away from the moon.” 「對不起，」他擦著額頭上的汗說，「通常離月亮這麼遠不會這麼糟。」

“S’fine,” James shrugged, “We’re on holiday, not a route march.” 「沒事，」James耸肩，「我們在度假，不是行軍。」

“Don’t you want to catch up with Lily? I’ll be fine.” 「你不想追上Lily嗎？我會沒事的。」

“Giving her a bit of space. I think she’s embarrassed.” 「給她點空間。我覺得她有點尷尬。」

“She really likes you, though,” Remus said, encouragingly, “She told me.” 「她真的很喜歡你，」Remus鼓勵地說，「她告訴我的。」

“I know,” James smiled, getting that dopey, dreamy look as he stared over the clifftop, “Can’t believe my bloody luck.” He cleared his throat, “But it was just talking, all right? that’s the party line, don’t say anything to Black.”
「我知道，」James笑著，凝視懸崖頂部，露出那種愚笨的夢幻神情，「真不敢相信我的好運。」他清了清喉嚨，「但只是聊天，好嗎？這是官方說法，別告訴Black。」

Remus laughed, straightening up, 「Remus笑了，挺直身體，」

“I won’t.” They began to walk again, steadily. The sun was reaching its highest point, blazing above them so that they had to squint, or look at their feet. 「我不會的。」他們又開始穩步行走。太陽正到達最高點，在他們上方炙烤，使他們不得不瞇起眼睛，或者看著腳下。」

“We talked about you, actually,” James said. “Well, Lily did. I listened.” 「其實我們談到了你，」James說。「嗯，Lily說的。我在聽。」

“Oh?” 「哦？」

“Yeah - nothing horrible, I promise! I think it was probably just the cider and we were both rambling about how you were such a good mate, and then she said something about being brave and making your feelings known and living honestly, or… oh, I dunno, I was too busy being amazed she was even talking to me.” 「是的——沒有什麼可怕的，我保證！我想可能只是蘋果酒，我們都在胡亂說你是多麼好的朋友，然後她說了一些關於勇敢地表達感情和誠實生活的話，或者……哦，我不知道，我太忙於驚訝她竟然在和我說話。」

Remus smiled at James, and wanted to hug him on Lily’s behalf. 「Remus對James微笑，想代Lily擁抱他。」

They reached the castle two hours later, a good half an hour behind the rest of the group, who had waited for them. 「他們在兩個小時後到達了城堡，比其他人晚了半小時，其他人已經在等他們。」

“Sorry,” Sirius said, once they were out of earshot of the others, “I didn’t think.” 「對不起，」Sirius說，等他們走到其他人聽不見的地方，「我沒想那麼多。」

“I’m fine,” Remus smiled, trying to hide his exhaustion, “I had Prongs.” 「我沒事，」Remus微笑，試圖掩飾他的疲憊，「我有Prongs。」

“There’s a local bus that goes back past the campsite, I checked,” Sirius said, gallantly, “We can get that back, if you want?” 「有一輛當地的巴士會經過露營地，我查過了，」Sirius紳士地說，「如果你想，我們可以坐那輛回去？」

“I’m fine.” 「我沒事。」

The castle was a ruin, beautiful grey stone in the summer sunshine, cast against the glistening sea, hundreds of feet below. Remus could barely believe anyone had really lived there - the narrow spiral staircases had crumbled and led nowhere, long grass and bright yellow dandelions had invaded what might once have been a great feasting hall. There were arrow slits in the remaining walls, and graffiti carved into the parapets, where no doubt some bored soldier had waited once, a thousand years ago. Perhaps he hadn’t been much older than they were. War never changed. 「這座城堡是一片廢墟，夏日陽光下的美麗灰色石頭，映襯著數百英尺下閃閃發光的海洋。Remus幾乎無法相信曾經有人真的住在這裡——狹窄的螺旋樓梯已經崩塌，通向無處，長草和明亮的黃色蒲公英侵佔了曾經可能是一個偉大宴會廳的地方。剩下的牆上有箭孔，雉堞上刻有塗鴉，無疑一千年前一些無聊的士兵曾在那裡等待。也許他們並不比他們年長多少。戰爭從未改變。」

James, Peter and Sirius began a very enthusiastic sword fight with some stray sticks they’d found, while Remus sat rolling up cigarettes on a pile of rocks, watching them. 「James, Peter和Sirius開始用他們找到的一些樹枝進行非常熱情的劍鬥，而Remus坐在一堆石頭上捲煙，觀看他們。」

“You’d feel a lot fitter if you didn’t fill your lungs up with that shit,” Marlene tutted. 「如果你不讓你的肺裝滿那些垃圾，你會覺得健康很多，」Marlene咂嘴說。」

“Here for a good time, not a long time, Marls,” he replied, dryly, licking the adhesive strip on his paper and sticking it down carefully. 「來這裡是為了享受，不是長時間，Marls，」他乾巴巴地回答，舔著紙上的粘條，小心地粘好。」

He made four or five, just to pass the time, tucking them neatly into an old matchbox he’d saved for the purpose. He watched Sirius, playing the knight against Peter’s dragon, and laughed as James captured Lily - apparently now a princess - hoisting her effortlessly over his shoulder and running for the castle gates. She laughed and beat her fits against his back playfully, and when he put her down she looked so happy in his arms. 「他做了四五個，只是為了消磨時間，將它們整齊地放進他為此保留的一個舊火柴盒裡。他看著Sirius扮演騎士對抗Peter的龍，並且當James抓住Lily——顯然現在是公主——輕鬆地將她扛在肩上跑向城堡大門時，他笑了。她笑著玩笑地打著他的背，當他把她放下時，她在他懷裡顯得那麼快樂。」

Eventually, some of the other tourists started to get a bit annoyed with the eight teenagers mucking about, so they decided it was time to go back down to the beach and spend the rest of the afternoon cooling off in the sea. 「最終，一些其他遊客開始對這八個少年胡鬧感到有些惱火，所以他們決定是時候回到海灘，度過剩下的下午在海裡涼快。」

Lily and James led the group this time, hand in hand, chattering happily as if they had been this intimate for years. A pang of envy shot through Remus. Not that he wanted to hold Sirius’s hand. For one thing, it was much too hot, for another, you couldn’t keep Sirius still long enough. 「這次是Lily和James手牽手領著大家，快樂地聊天，仿佛他們已經這麼親密多年。Remus感到一陣嫉妒。並不是說他想牽著Sirius的手。一方面，天氣太熱了，另一方面，你無法讓Sirius靜止足夠長的時間。」

“You lot go ahead,” Sirius called, “Me and Moony are having a fag break.” 「你們先走，」Sirius喊道，「我和Moony要休息一下抽根煙。」

Marlene tutted once more, but hurried to catch up with the others. 「Marlene再次咂嘴，但急忙趕上其他人。」

Remus and Sirius sat on a stone wall for a bit, smoking. 「Remus和Sirius坐在石牆上抽煙。」

“There’s a pub down there,” Sirius nodded further up the lane. “Saw it on the way up, it’s got a garden. Want to go and waste some time?” 「那邊有家酒吧，」Sirius點頭向車道上方，「上來的時候看到的，有個花園。想去那裡浪費點時間嗎？」

“Yeah,” Remus said, surprised. That sounded ideal. “But don’t you want to catch up with James?” 「好啊，」Remus驚訝地說。這聽起來很理想。「但你不想趕上James嗎？」

“James doesn’t love me anymore,” Sirius sighed, dramatically, holding his wrist against his forehead like an old woman about to faint, “His heart has been claimed by another.” 「James不再愛我了，」Sirius戲劇性地嘆息，像一個即將昏倒的老太太一樣將手腕放在額頭上，「他的心已經被別人佔據了。」

Remus laughed, then dared to say, 「Remus笑了，然後大膽地說，」

“Oh well. you’ve got me.” 「哦，好吧。你還有我。」

“I’ve got you,” Sirius nodded with a grin, hopping down from the wall. “C’mon, then. Could murder a pint.” 「我有你，」Sirius微笑著點頭，從牆上跳下來。「來吧。想喝杯啤酒。」

The pub was a small whitewashed cottage with mustard yellow shutters, a red tile roof and a neat row of red geraniums planted in pots outside. Inside was dark, musty and cavernous; Remus had to duck under the low ceiling. The gruff working men propping up the bar all turned to look as they entered, and for a moment Remus wondered if it had been a bad idea after all. 「這家酒吧是一個小小的粉刷過的平房，有芥末黃的百葉窗，紅色的瓷磚屋頂，外面整齊地種著一排紅色的天竺葵。裡面昏暗、霉臭且空曠；Remus不得不低頭走過低矮的天花板。那些支撐在吧台上的粗魯工人都轉過頭來看他們，有一刻Remus懷疑這是否真的是個壞主意。」

Still, Sirius ordered two pints of lager, and they took them outside to the garden, sitting on a table underneath a beech tree for shade. As they headed out, the surly barman and unfriendly locals turned back to their own drinks, obviously deciding to ignore the two boys. Remus was sure he heard one of them mutter ‘bloody toffs,’ which he took as a personal slight, though of course it could have been much worse. Still, they were alone in the garden, and had the privacy they’d been seeking. 「儘管如此，Sirius還是點了兩品脫啤酒，他們把啤酒拿到外面的花園，在一棵山毛櫸樹下的一張桌子上坐下乘涼。當他們走出去時，那個陰沉的酒保和不友好的當地人轉回他們自己的飲料上，顯然決定忽略這兩個男孩。Remus確信他聽到其中一個人嘀咕「該死的貴族」，他把這當作個人侮辱，儘管當然可能會更糟。不過，他們在花園裡是獨自一人，擁有他們尋求的隱私。」

Sirius was impervious to the attitudes of others - maybe he didn’t notice; maybe he just didn’t think muggles were worth worrying about. 「Sirius對他人的態度無動於衷——也許他沒有注意到；也許他只是覺得麻瓜不值得擔心。」

“It’s great here,” he said, gulping down his foggy, warm beer, “D’you think we could live here, when it’s all over?” 「這裡真不錯，」他說，一口喝下他的濁熱啤酒，「你覺得當一切結束後我們可以住在這裡嗎？」

“I like London,” Remus replied, “It’s what I’m used to.” 「我喜歡倫敦，」Remus回答，「這是我習慣的。」

“Remember you promised we could go to Carnaby Street,” Sirius said, playing with Remus’s matchbox, “This summer. I’m holding you to it.” 「記得你答應我們可以去Carnaby街，」Sirius說，玩著Remus的火柴盒，「這個夏天。我可記住你說的。」

“When did I say that?” 「我什麼時候說過？」

“Christmas.” 「聖誕節。」

“Oh, right. Ok, we’ll go.” 「哦，好吧。我們會去的。」

“I can’t believe you forgot.” 「真不敢相信你忘了。」

“Well you also spent half of Christmas trying to convince me to get a girlfriend, so…” 「嗯，你也花了半個聖誕節試圖說服我找個女朋友，所以……」

“Uggh,” Sirius groaned, apparently in shame, “Sorry. I thought it might help me er… feel less attached to you. Sounds a bit bonkers now I think about it...” 「唉，」Sirius呻吟道，顯然感到羞愧，「對不起。我以為這可能會幫助我……不那麼依賴你。現在想起來有點瘋狂……」

“Now it sounds bonkers,” Remus kicked him gently under the table. 「現在聽起來很瘋狂，」Remus在桌下輕輕踢了他一腳。」

“Logical thought processes are not my forte, Mr Moony,” Sirius laughed, with an aristocratic turn of his head, “You ought to make your peace with it if we’re going to… um… if we’re going to…” 「邏輯思維不是我的強項，Moony先生，」Sirius笑著，貴族般地轉過頭，「如果我們要……嗯……如果我們要……」

“Start going out…” Remus prompted, gently. Sirius gave him an apologetic smile, 「開始約會……」Remus輕聲提示。Sirius給了他一個抱歉的微笑，

“Going out, yeah.” He agreed. “Sorry.” 「約會，是的。」他同意了。「對不起。」

“You’ll get there,” Remus said, casually, gulping his pint. 「你會做到的，」Remus隨口說道，喝著他的啤酒。」

And with that, the ice was broken, and they began to talk. And talk, and talk. It was that easy; after months of failure to communicate, it seemed that the gates had now been flung open wide. They found that once they had begun, they couldn’t stop. Remus would relate some assumption he had made; some belief he had held about an interaction long ago, and what he thought it had meant at the time. And Sirius would shake his head with wide, earnest eyes and say; 「就這樣，冰被打破了，他們開始交談。聊啊聊。就這麼簡單；在幾個月的溝通失敗之後，似乎大門現在已經大開。他們發現，一旦開始，就停不下來。Remus會講述他所做的一些假設；他曾經對很久以前的一次互動抱有的某些信念，以及當時他認為它的意義。而Sirius會睜大認真的眼睛搖頭說，」

“But Moony, it wasn’t like that at all.” 「但是Moony，根本不是那樣的。」

When it came down to brass tacks, Remus discovered that much of his misery was his own making; that most of the time Sirius had never meant harm, and often hadn’t even known he was causing Remus any pain at all - it was just his own bungled idea of what was going on. They even talked about Mary. 「說到底，Remus發現他的許多痛苦都是他自己造成的；大多數時候，Sirius從未有意傷害，而且通常甚至不知道他在給Remus帶來任何痛苦——這只是他自己對正在發生的事情的拙劣理解。他們甚至談到了Mary。」

“I really did like her,” he said, “I think that’s what threw me off, in the beginning. Y’know, it wasn’t like girls weren’t doing it for me, in that department… and she was so confident.” 「我真的很喜歡她，」他說，「我想這就是一開始讓我困惑的原因。你知道，並不是說在那方面女孩對我沒有吸引力……而且她是那麼自信。」

“I thought you were just with her because you didn’t want to be with me.” 「我以為你和她在一起只是因為你不想和我在一起。」

“No.” Sirius said, firmly, “That’s a horrible thought. It was for her, not for you.” He looked at him, “Sorry.” 「不是的。」Sirius堅定地說，「這是個可怕的想法。那是為了她，不是為了你。」他看著他，「對不起。」

“Ha, don’t be. That makes me feel better, actually.” 「哈，不用。其實這讓我感覺好些了。」

“Anyway,” Sirius smirked, “What about you and Mary?” 「無論如何，」Sirius笑了笑，「你和Mary呢？」

“Oh god,” Remus buried his face in his hands, “Don’t. I’m so embarrassed.” 「哦天哪，」Remus把臉埋在手裡，「別提了。我太尷尬了。」

“It’s fine. I liked it.” Sirius raised an eyebrow, giving Remus a look so sultry it would probably get him arrested in some parts of the country. 「沒關係。我喜歡。」Sirius挑了挑眉，給了Remus一個如此性感的眼神，以至於在國內某些地方可能會因此被捕。」

“I noticed.” He blushed, “Didn’t help you feel less attached, then?” 「我注意到了。」他臉紅了，「那也沒幫助你減少依戀，是嗎？」

“Apparently not.” 「顯然不是。」

“I couldn’t believe you didn’t mind that. And yet, when you found out about Chris…” 「我無法相信你不介意那個。而當你發現Chris的時候……」

Sirius straightened up, looking annoyed, 「Sirius挺直身體，顯得很惱火，」

“Him.” He grumbled. 「他。」他抱怨道。

“There’s nothing between us. We’re just friends.” 「我們之間沒什麼。我們只是朋友。」

“And… this other bloke… Grant? Was he...” Sirius shifted, obviously uncomfortable as he struggled to get the word out, “Your boyfriend?” 「還有……這個叫Grant的傢伙？他是……」Sirius轉了轉身，顯然不舒服，努力說出這個詞，「你的男朋友？」

“Not really,” Remus replied, easily, “It’s hard to explain. He’s… a friend. I care about him as much as I do you, and James, and Peter, and the girls.” 「不是的，」Remus輕鬆地回答，「這很難解釋。他是……一個朋友。我對他的關心程度和我對你、James、Peter和女孩們一樣。」

“More secrets, Remus.” Sirius ran his hands through his hair, frustrated, “I can’t keep track, I dunno how you do it. Can you stop hiding stuff? From me, at least?” 「更多的秘密，Remus。」Sirius沮喪地用手梳理著頭髮，「我跟不上，不知道你怎麼做到的。你能停止隱瞞東西嗎？至少對我？」

“I don’t know.” Remus said, quietly, “It’ll be hard.” 「我不知道。」Remus輕聲說，「這很難。」

“But you can try.” Sirius smiled. Remus chuckled, and nodded. 「但你可以試試。」Sirius微笑著說。Remus笑了笑，點了點頭。」

They finished their drinks, and decided to head back to the campsite. 「他們喝完了酒，決定回到露營地。」

“I’ll teach you to swim.” Sirius offered. 「我會教你游泳。」Sirius提議。」

“Fuck off, will you.” Remus snorted. 「去你的吧。」Remus哼了一聲。」

“Is there anything else you’ve been keeping secret, eh, Remu?” Sirius nudged him, as they meandered slowly downhill. It was much easier, the way back, but they were going very slowly anyway. 「還有什麼你一直隱瞞的秘密嗎，Remu？」Sirius推了推他，他們慢慢地走下坡路。回去的路要容易得多，但無論如何他們走得很慢。」

“Nope,” Remus laughed. He felt light as air - it was like being high; having nothing to hide at all, “Queer, illiterate, homeless, werewolf…” he ticked them off on his fingers, “I think that’s it. Oh, and my mother.” 「沒有，」Remus笑了。他感覺輕如鴻毛——就像嗑藥一樣；完全沒有什麼需要隱藏的，「同性戀，文盲，無家可歸，狼人……」他用手指數著，「我想就這些了。哦，還有我母親。」

“Your mother?!” 「你母親？！」

“I got a letter, in that box of depressing stuff from Dumbledore. Photos, and a letter - an apology.” 「我收到了信，在Dumbledore那箱令人沮喪的東西裡。照片，還有一封信——一封道歉信。」

“Oh, blimey, ok. What did it--” 「哦，天哪，好吧。那上面寫了什麼——」

“No, I don’t want to talk about it yet. Sorry.” 「不，我還不想談這個。對不起。」

“Fine,” Sirius shrugged, “Let’s say we can talk about anything at all, except our mothers.” 「好吧，」Sirius聳了聳肩，「我們可以談任何事情，除了我們的母親。」

“Perfect.” Remus nodded. 「完美。」Remus點了點頭。

 

- Old Rosie is cider, and if you drink too much of it you will regret it.
- Cornish pasties are the pinnacle of British cuisine.
- The incident Sirius is referring to (which triggered his interest in Remus) happened in Chapter 51.

 

Chapter 117: Summer 1977: Part 4 

The rest of the week in Cornwall passed in complete bliss, as far as Remus and Sirius were concerned. They spent long hot days on the beach and hillsides, wandering through quaint little villages, exploring caves and getting tipsy in pub gardens. They dined exclusively on pasties, fish and chips and ice cream, and at night - oh, the nights were best of all. 康沃爾的剩餘一周對Remus和Sirius來說簡直是極樂。他們在海灘和山坡上度過了漫長而炎熱的日子，漫遊在古樸的小村莊裡，探索洞穴並在酒吧花園裡微醺。他們的飲食僅限於餡餅、魚和薯條以及冰淇淋，而夜晚——哦，夜晚是最美好的。

During the day, if the others were around, they would toss a ball back and forth across the sand, or Remus would consent to paddle in the sea a little - jeans rolled up and long sleeved shirt still firmly on. If it was just the two of them, then he might roll the sleeves up to his elbows, exposing old scars, and Sirius would become Padfoot and chase sticks or his own tail. And they often got to be alone, because everyone else seemed to want to keep sneaking off. 白天，如果其他人在身邊，他們會在沙灘上來回拋球，或者Remus會同意在海裡踩踩水——捲起牛仔褲，仍然堅持穿著長袖襯衫。如果只有他們兩個，那麼他可能會把袖子捲到肘部，露出舊傷疤，而Sirius會變成Padfoot追逐棍子或自己的尾巴。而且他們經常能獨處，因為其他人似乎都想偷偷溜走。

Lily and James were the worst - when they weren’t bickering they were snogging; gratuitously, and at length. Lily和James是最糟糕的——他們不吵架的時候就在親熱；毫無節制，而且時間很長。

“You’re supposed to be prefects!” Mary yelled at them, after the third night, finding them practically horizontal in front of the campfire. 「你們應該是級長！」Mary在第三個晚上對他們大喊，發現他們幾乎橫躺在營火前。

“Oh, as if I haven’t caught you a hundred times on my rounds!” Lily laughed, getting up and straightening her clothes nonetheless. “And you, Black, so you can stop leering.” 「哦，好像我沒在巡邏時抓到你們一百次一樣！」Lily笑著站起來，整理著衣服。「還有你，Black，你可以停止色瞇瞇地看了。」

“What?” Sirius blinked, innocently. 「什麼？」Sirius天真地眨了眨眼。

He was carrying back the bowl of washing up from the shower block. Remus had been pretty amazed by that - Sirius had volunteered to do the dishes every night so far (“I quite like doing it, the muggle way,” he had confided, secretively, “Mother used to make us do the house elf’s work as a punishment sometimes, but I just found it relaxing, to be honest.”) 他正從淋浴區端回洗好的碗。Remus對此感到非常驚訝——Sirius自願每晚洗碗（「我挺喜歡用麻瓜的方式洗碗，」他偷偷告訴Remus，「母親有時會讓我們做家養小精靈的工作作為懲罰，但說實話，我覺得這很放鬆。」）

“Don’t draw me into your sordid escapades,” Sirius was saying, prudishly, setting down the tub. “I’ve been a perfect gentleman all holiday.” 「別把我牽扯到你們骯髒的冒險中去，」Sirius說，裝模作樣地放下了桶。「整個假期我都是一個完美的紳士。」

“I’m not convinced you haven’t been sneaking off with some muggle girl in the village.” Marlene said. She was lying stretched out on a towel in her underwear, sunbathing. Her body was very long and very pale. 「我不相信你沒跟村裡的某個麻瓜女孩偷偷溜走。」Marlene說。她只穿著內衣躺在毛巾上曬太陽。她的身體很長，很白。

“How dare you,” Sirius flicked her with the damp tea towel, making her yelp and crease up, “I’ve been tucked up in bed early every night, haven’t I, Moony?” 「你怎麼敢，」Sirius用濕毛巾輕輕打了她一下，讓她尖叫並皺起眉頭，「我每晚都早早上床，不是嗎，Moony？」

Remus choked on the crackers he’d been nibbling on, and had to be slapped on the back by James a few times before he recovered. You’ll pay for that later, Black, he glared at Sirius, eyes watering. Remus被他正在啃的餅乾噎住了，不得不被James拍了幾下背才恢復過來。你等著瞧，Black，他瞪著Sirius，眼睛都流淚了。

Once James had calmed down about the ‘Lily Evans Event’ (as Sirius was calling it, behind his back) enough to think straight, he’d been surprised that Sirius and Remus were now sharing a tent, and suspicious, for all the wrong reasons. 一旦James對「Lily Evans事件」（Sirius在背後這樣稱呼它）冷靜下來，足以理清思緒，他對Sirius和Remus現在共用一個帳篷感到驚訝，並因為所有錯誤的理由而感到懷疑。

“You’re not going to start fighting again, you two? You know you only wind each other up in close proximity...” 「你們倆不會又開始打架吧？你知道你們在近距離時只會互相挑釁……」

“Right you are, Prong,” Sirius said, brightly, “You bunk in with Moony and I’ll share with Evans.” 「你說得對，Prong，」Sirius愉快地說，「你和Moony住一起，我和Evans住。」

That put an end to that line of questioning, but not to James’s sudden overprotectiveness of Remus. It was nice - certainly nothing to whinge about - but a bit uncomfortable. Remus had never had any kind of big brother figure - unless you counted Ste or Craig, who had taught him to steal and drink and throw a proper punch - but James now seemed determined to do his clumsy, kind-hearted best. Midway through the week, Remus was a little surprised that no one had so much as mentioned the confession he had made on the first night. Not that he wanted anyone to make a fuss, or say anything sly or backhanded, but… still. Nothing at all? He brought it up with Sirius in a quiet moment, and he’d laughed, 這結束了那條問題線索，但沒有結束James對Remus的突然過度保護。這很好——當然沒什麼可抱怨的——但有點不舒服。Remus從來沒有任何大哥般的人物——除非你算上Ste或Craig，他們教他偷竊、喝酒和打出合適的一拳——但James現在似乎決心盡他笨拙、善良的最大努力。到了這周中期，Remus有點驚訝，沒有人提到他在第一個晚上所做的告白。並不是他希望有人大驚小怪，或者說什麼狡猾或隱晦的話，但……還是。什麼都沒有？他在一個安靜的時刻向Sirius提起這件事，Sirius笑了，

“Well if Prongs gave everyone else that bloody speech I’m not surprised.” 「嗯，如果Prongs對其他所有人都做了那該死的演講，我就不驚訝了。」

“Speech?” 「演講？」

“Yeah he pulled me aside and told me if I started treating you any differently he’d thump me. Probably didn’t say that to the girls - maybe Lily did them.” Sirius stretched out, doggishly, lying on his front. 「是啊，他把我拉到一邊，告訴我如果我開始對你有任何不同的對待，他會揍我。可能沒對女孩們說這些——也許是Lily說的。」Sirius像狗一樣伸展著，趴在前面。

They were lounging on the beach, alone, on a quiet stretch of sand which so far no one else had discovered. Sirius was in his swimming trunks and Remus was taking the opportunity to stare at him as much as he liked, and as brazenly as he liked. Every now and then he gathered a handful of silky yellow sand and poured it over Sirius’s skin, just to watch the grains slide like water over the muscles of his back. 他們正獨自在海灘上閒散地躺著，這片寧靜的沙灘目前還沒有人發現。Sirius穿著泳褲，Remus正抓住機會肆無忌憚地盯著他看。時不時地，他會抓一把絲滑的黃沙，倒在Sirius的皮膚上，只為了看著沙粒像水一樣滑過他背部的肌肉。

“You’re having me on.” Remus said, lazily, not believing Sirius. 「你在耍我吧。」Remus懶洋洋地說，不相信Sirius。

“Wish I was. I swear, it was so hard not to laugh in his face and just tell him everything.” He rolled over, brushing the sand away carelessly, “I’m going to have to go and wash off in a minute, if you keep doing that.” 「希望我是。我發誓，要不是忍住不在他臉上笑出來，然後告訴他一切，真是太難了。」他翻過身，漫不經心地刷掉沙子，「如果你繼續這樣，我得馬上去洗掉。」

“That’s the idea,” Remus smirked. Sirius in the sea was his new favourite thing to look at. 「這就是我的想法，」Remus得意地笑了。Sirius在海里是他的新寵。

Remus still didn’t really believe him, until the very last day of the holiday. They were all trying to pack up the tents - which didn’t seem to want to fit back into the bags they’d arrived in - and Remus had ended up taking over, because Peter, Sirius and James didn’t seem to understand the concept of instructions. The girls had deconstructed their own camp in less than an hour, and it was getting a bit shameful. Remus直到假期的最後一天仍然不太相信他。他們都在試圖收拾帳篷——這些帳篷似乎不想再回到他們到達時的袋子裡——最後由Remus接手，因為Peter、Sirius和James似乎不明白指示的概念。女孩們在不到一個小時內就拆除了自己的營地，這變得有點丟人。

“Right, that peg needs to come out first, and there’s a sort of top sheet we need to remove, otherwise everything gets tangled up…” Remus said, scratching his head. James and Sirius did this successfully and began folding up the brown canvas. 「好吧，先把那個帳篷釘拔出來，然後我們需要移除一個頂板，否則一切都會糾纏在一起……」Remus說，抓了抓頭。James和Sirius成功地做到了這一點，開始折疊棕色的帆布。

“What would we do without you, Moony,” James chuckled. 「沒有你我們該怎麼辦，Moony，」James輕笑道。

“Yeah,” Peter said from the ground, where he was collecting pegs, “Who’d have thought you’d be good at all this stuff.” 「是啊，」Peter從地上說道，他正在收集帳篷釘，「誰會想到你對這些事情這麼在行。」

“Well, I have always been the sensible one,” Remus murmured, not really paying it any mind, skimming the next few steps in the leaflet. Then he realised it had gone quiet, and James was standing over Peter. 「嗯，我一直是那個理智的人，」Remus喃喃道，並沒有真的在意，只是略讀了小冊子上的幾個步驟。然後他意識到周圍變得安靜了，James站在Peter上方。

“What do you mean, ‘this stuff’?” 「你說的‘這些事情’是什麼意思？」

Peter looked up, confused, and rubbed his hands together, Peter抬頭，困惑地揉了揉手，

“Y’know, outdoorsy stuff - blokey stuff. I didn’t mean--” 「你知道的，戶外的事情——男人的事情。我不是故意的——」

“Pete. A word.” James said, his voice weirdly hard and flat; channeling Euphemia Potter in a stern mood. He marched off, towards the beach, Peter following nervously behind, still wringing his hands. 「Pete，說句話。」James說，他的聲音奇怪地硬而平；在嚴厲的情緒中傳達Euphemia Potter的風格。他朝海灘走去，Peter緊張地跟在後面，仍在絞著手。

“Blokey stuff.” Sirius muttered, though he looked anxious and pale too. 「男人的事情。」Sirius喃喃道，雖然他也看起來焦慮且蒼白。

“What was that all about?!” Remus asked, going over to pick up the pegs Peter had put down. 「這到底是怎麼回事？！」Remus問道，走過去撿起Peter放下的帳篷釘。

Sirius shook his head, and didn’t speak again until Peter and James returned, Peter looking very shaken. Remus wished he could have said something, but he felt like he might only make the problem worse. Sirius搖了搖頭，直到Peter和James回來，Peter看起來非常震驚，Sirius才再次開口。Remus希望他能說點什麼，但他覺得這只會讓問題變得更糟。

When it came time to say goodbye, nobody wanted to leave. Remus found himself staring glumly down at the four yellow squares of grass where their tents had been, while James and Lily clung to each other, saying their goodbyes. 當到了告別的時候，沒有人想離開。Remus發現自己沮喪地盯著他們帳篷所在的四個黃色草地，而James和Lily緊緊抱在一起，說著告別的話。

“You going back to Essex, Remus?” Mary asked, cheerfully. 「你要回埃塞克斯嗎，Remus？」Mary高興地問道。

“Staying with the Potters for a bit.” Remus replied, trying to perk up. 「在Potter家住一段時間。」Remus回答，試圖振作起來。

“Lucky!” Mary said, “I’ve got to go back to Croydon - Marlene invited me to stay, but Mum says she doesn’t see enough of me as it is.” 「真幸運！」Mary說，「我要回克羅伊登——Marlene邀請我住，但媽媽說她已經不常見到我了。」

“That’s nice,” Remus smiled, “It’s nice to be missed.” 「那很好，」Remus笑道，「被思念是件好事。」

Peter and Dorcas left first, heading up to the main road to find a secluded spot to hail the Knight Bus. Remus waved them off, and everything seemed fine, but that might just have been James’s presence. The girls apparated - once Lily finally let go of James, promising to visit before the summer was over, promising to write, making James promise to telephone. She hugged Remus, and then - perhaps just in a moment of blind happiness, Sirius too. Peter和Dorcas最先離開，前往主路尋找一個隱蔽的地方召喚騎士公共汽車。Remus揮手送別他們，一切看起來都很好，但這可能只是因為James的存在。女孩們幻影移形——當Lily最終放開James時，承諾在夏天結束前來訪，承諾寫信，讓James承諾打電話。她擁抱了Remus，然後——也許只是在盲目快樂的時刻，擁抱了Sirius。

James, Remus and Sirius apparated back to the Potter’s with somewhat more success than the first time. Remus ended up in the back garden, somehow, Sirius somewhere in the village, but Mrs Potter was thrilled to see them all the same, and decided they all needed some proper food, at once. James、Remus和Sirius比第一次更成功地幻影移形回到Potter家。Remus最後在後花園，不知怎的，Sirius在村裡某處，但Potter夫人見到他們依然非常高興，決定立刻給他們準備一些正餐。

“Should we get in touch with the home for you, Remus?” Mr Potter asked, casually over dinner, “You’re not pulling another vanishing act, are you? Can’t have the muggle police called again.” 「我們應該和你的家人聯繫嗎，Remus？」Potter先生隨意地在晚餐時問道，「你不會再玩消失了吧？不能再讓麻瓜警察來了。」

“Oh - er, no, I… um…” Remus stammered over his boiled potatoes - what could he say, to stop them asking? What would buy a bit more time? Sirius kicked him underneath the table, and gave him a look. Go on, Moony, it said; tell the truth. Remus looked at Mr Potter, “Actually, now I’m seventeen, there isn’t a place for me at St Edmund’s.” 「哦——呃，不，我……嗯……」Remus在他煮的土豆上結結巴巴地說——他能說什麼來阻止他們問呢？什麼能多爭取點時間？Sirius在桌子下踢了他一腳，給了他一個眼神。繼續，Moony，它說；說實話。Remus看向Potter先生，「其實，現在我已經十七歲了，聖埃德蒙茲不再有我的位置。」

“Oh good,” Mrs Potter smiled benignly, “We’ve got you all summer then, wonderful!” 「哦，太好了，」Potter夫人慈祥地笑著，「那麼我們整個夏天都能有你了，太棒了！」

As easy as that. 就是這麼簡單。

“I told you,” Sirius whispered, as he slid into Remus’s bed, after midnight. “The Potters love taking in strays.” 「我告訴過你，」午夜過後，Sirius悄聲說，滑進了Remus的床。「Potter家喜歡收留流浪者。」

“Should you be here?” Remus whispered back, anxiously, “What about James?” 「你應該在這裡嗎？」Remus焦慮地回聲問道，「那James呢？」

“Snoring his head off, I could hear him through the wall.” 「打呼嚕打得厲害，我能聽到穿過牆壁的聲音。」

Remus didn’t press it further - after all, he wanted Sirius there. It felt funny, lying alone in a big double bed after a week spent squished up in a tent. Having another body close by was comforting. Having Sirius’s body close by was even better. Remus沒有再追問——畢竟，他希望Sirius在那裡。經過一周擠在帳篷裡後，獨自躺在一張大雙人床上感覺很奇怪。身邊有另一個人的存在令人感到安慰。身邊有Sirius的存在更好。

“Well done for telling them.” Sirius said, quietly, holding Remus’s hand under the covers. He did that often, and only in bed, in the dark. Remus didn’t mind. 「告訴他們做得很好。」Sirius輕聲說，握著Remus的手在被子下。他經常這樣做，只在床上，在黑暗中。Remus不介意。

“Yeah, I’m just telling everyone everything, this week,” Remus laughed. 「是啊，我這周就是在告訴每個人一切，」Remus笑道。

“Nothing wrong with asking for help, Moony. People like helping their friends.” 「尋求幫助沒什麼錯，Moony。人們喜歡幫助他們的朋友。」

“I know.” Remus kissed the top of Sirius's head - one of the many privileges now permitted to him. Sirius liked to sleep hidden under the covers, like a hibernating creature. It made him seem smaller than he was, and made Remus feel protective. Another thing that was ok to feel, now. “Sirius?” 「我知道。」Remus親吻了Sirius的頭頂——這是他現在被允許的許多特權之一。Sirius喜歡藏在被子下睡覺，像冬眠的生物。這讓他看起來比實際上小，讓Remus感到保護欲。這也是現在可以感覺的另一件事。「Sirius？」

“Mm?” 「嗯？」

“That thing Wormtail said, did it really upset you?” 「Wormtail說的那件事，真的讓你不安嗎？」

He felt Sirius tense against him, and instantly wished he hadn’t brought it up. He tried to cover his tracks, “Just... you know Pete, he’s a bit of an idiot sometimes, but he’s just thick, not spiteful. He’ll get used to it. Get used to me. Next time he needs his homework done, it won’t matter.” 他感覺到Sirius緊貼著他，立刻後悔提起這件事。他試圖掩蓋自己的行蹤，「只是……你知道Pete，他有時候有點傻，但他只是笨，不是惡意的。他會習慣的。習慣我。下次他需要做作業時，這不會有關係。」

“I’ve heard stuff like that before, that’s all.” Sirius said, very low, so that Remus, who usually had perfect hearing - better than perfect - had to listen closely. “About being a man. You know the sort of thing.” 「我以前聽過類似的話，就這樣。」Sirius非常低聲地說，讓通常有著完美聽力——比完美更好的Remus也不得不仔細聆聽。「關於做男人的事。你知道那種事。」

“From your mother?” 「來自你母親？」

Sirius didn’t speak, but his head moved slightly and Remus took it for a nod. Sirius沒有說話，但他的頭微微移動，Remus將其視為點頭。

We aren’t talking about mothers. Remus had to remind himself. He just squeezed Sirius’s hand, and said the only thing he could think of. 我們不談母親。Remus不得不提醒自己。他只是握緊Sirius的手，說出了他唯一能想到的話。

“Well then, you know it was all bollocks.” 「那麼，你知道那全是胡說八道。」

 

Saturday 30th July 1977

James Potter was not as clever as Remus had given him credit for. They had been back from Cornwall for a fortnight. James had telephoned Lily from the phonebox at the end of the road exactly fourteen times. And exactly fourteen times, Remus had had to accompany James to the phonebox, put the coins in the slot, dial the number for him, and show him how to hang up, at the end. 詹姆斯·波特並不像雷木斯想像的那麼聰明。他們從康沃爾回來已經兩個星期了。詹姆斯從路邊的電話亭打了十四次電話給莉莉。而這十四次，雷木斯都要陪詹姆斯去電話亭，把硬幣放進槽裡，幫他撥號，並在最後教他如何掛斷電話。

The phonecalls lasted about an hour, usually, leaving Sirius and Remus to sit outside on the brick wall, smoking. Occasionally they walked up and down the high street, but mostly they just waited for James to finish. 這些電話通常持續約一個小時，讓小天狼星和雷木斯坐在外面的磚牆上抽煙。他們偶爾會在高街上來回走動，但大多數時候他們只是等著詹姆斯結束通話。

“Bloody idiot.” Remus sighed, as he exited the booth the fourteenth time. “How hard is it to remember a few simple steps? He did muggle studies, don’t they explain this stuff?” 「真是個笨蛋。」雷木斯在第十四次離開電話亭時嘆道。「記住幾個簡單的步驟有那麼難嗎？他學過麻瓜研究，他們不是應該解釋這些東西嗎？」

“Aww, he gets too excited to remember anything.” Sirius laughed, “Have some sympathy for the lovesick fool.” 「哦，他太興奮了，什麼都記不住。」小天狼星笑道，「對這個愛情中的傻瓜多點同情吧。」

“No. I will be joyless and miserable forever.” Remus grumbled, fumbling with his cigarette lighter. 「不。我將永遠不快樂和痛苦。」雷木斯嘟囔著，摸索著打火機。

“Oh good, I love it when you’re all dark and moody.” 「哦，太好了，我喜歡你陰鬱的樣子。」

“Fuck off.” 「滾開。」

“Mm, oooh yeah, now call me a stupid prat, that really gets me going…” Sirius teased, cigarette between his teeth, embers glowing in his eyes. Remus shoved him so that he stumbled off the wall, laughing. 「嗯，哦，是的，現在叫我蠢貨，這真的讓我興奮起來了……」小天狼星調侃道，香煙叼在牙齒間，火星在他眼中閃爍。雷木斯推了他一下，他跌跌撞撞地從牆上掉下來，笑了起來。

“You are being a stupid prat.” 「你就是個蠢貨。」

“Only for you.” Sirius stubbed out his cigarette. There was a low, dark rumbling in the far distance, and Sirius’s whole face lit up. He grabbed Remus’s arm, “Look! here it comes, right on time!” 「只為了你。」小天狼星掐滅了香煙。遠處傳來低沉的隆隆聲，小天狼星整張臉都亮了起來。他抓住雷木斯的手臂，「看！它來了，正好趕上！」

Remus rolled his eyes. Sirius had another reason to indulge James. Every evening, while they waited for the lovebirds to finish their phone call, a miraculous thing happened - in Sirius’s eyes, anyway. A motorbike drove through the village - probably some aging hippie on his way home from his boring commuter job, Remus thought, petulantly. 雷木斯翻了個白眼。小天狼星有另一個縱容詹姆斯的理由。每個晚上，當他們等著這對愛侶結束通話時，一件奇蹟般的事情發生了——至少在小天狼星眼裡。一輛摩托車駛過村莊——可能是某個年老的嬉皮士下班回家的路上，雷木斯不耐煩地想。

It was a Triumph Bonneville T120 (Remus hated that he knew this, but after they’d seen it the first time Sirius had dragged them to the newsagent’s to buy every motorcyclist magazine he could find, until they had identified the model), with a cherry red tank, every inch of chrome polished to a gleaming silver. Sirius was madly in love, Remus was madly jealous. 那是一輛Triumph Bonneville T120（雷木斯討厭自己知道這些，但在他們第一次看到它後，小天狼星拉著他們去報刊亭買了所有能找到的摩托車雜誌，直到他們認出這個型號），有一個櫻桃紅的油箱，每一寸鍍鉻都被打磨得閃閃發亮。小天狼星瘋狂地愛上了它，而雷木斯則瘋狂地嫉妒。

Once the bike had passed, Sirius gave a sigh of satisfaction, then climbed back onto the wall, and watched Remus for a while. He did that a lot, now. Remus had to learn not to mind too much; being scrutinised. Sirius cocked his head, “Is it the moon? Making you grumpy?” 摩托車過去後，小天狼星滿意地嘆了口氣，然後爬回牆上，看了一會兒雷木斯。他現在經常這樣做。雷木斯不得不學會不要太在意；被仔細打量。小天狼星歪著頭，「是月亮嗎？讓你煩躁？」

“Probably.” Remus shrugged. “Usually makes me restless.” 「可能吧。」雷木斯聳了聳肩。「通常會讓我坐立不安。」

“Yeah, I noticed, last night.” Sirius winked. 「是啊，我注意到了，昨晚。」小天狼星眨了眨眼。

“Oh my god, shut up, obnoxious prick.” 「天啊，閉嘴，討厭的傢伙。」

Sirius grinned and poked out his sharp pink tongue. 小天狼星咧嘴笑了，伸出他尖尖的粉紅色舌頭。

Remus was nervous about the moon. It would be his first full moon not spent at either Hogwarts or St Edmund’s. (Though presumably there had been another full moon, once, long ago, with his mother.) Mr Potter had taken him aside, after it was agreed Remus would be staying for the rest of the summer, and explained their plan of action. 雷木斯對月亮感到緊張。這將是他第一次不在霍格沃茲或聖埃德蒙茲度過的滿月夜。（儘管可以推測，很久以前，他和母親一起度過了一次滿月。）在決定雷木斯將在夏天剩下的時間裡住下來後，波特先生把他拉到一旁，解釋了他們的行動計劃。

Not that it mattered much to Remus; a locked room was a locked room. This time it was the attic, and Moody had offered to stand guard outside, ensuring that the family would be safe. Mr and Mrs Potter (not to mention James and Sirius) had repeatedly reassured Remus that they weren’t concerned in the slightest, and that he oughtn’t to worry either. But of course he did, anyway. 對雷木斯來說，這並不重要；一個鎖著的房間就是一個鎖著的房間。這次是閣樓，而穆迪主動提出在外面守衛，確保家人的安全。波特先生和波特夫人（更不用說詹姆斯和小天狼星）反覆向雷木斯保證，他們一點都不擔心，他也不應該擔心。但他當然還是擔心了。

Sirius wanted to go in with him - so did James, but James at least had enough common sense to realise it wouldn’t be possible. No one was going to get anything past Moody - who had a new, creepy eye, electric blue and horribly enchanted. 小天狼星想和他一起進去——詹姆斯也是，但詹姆斯至少有足夠的常識知道這不可能。沒有人能瞞過穆迪——他有一隻新的、詭異的眼睛，電藍色，恐怖地被施了魔法。

“Tackled werewolves before,” he said, gruffly, as Remus was led up the ladder to the attic, “Always got a good result, minimal casualties.” 「以前對付過狼人，」當雷木斯被帶上梯子到閣樓時，他粗聲說道，「總是有好結果，傷亡最少。」

This did not make Remus feel better, but he wasn’t sure if it was supposed to. 這並沒有讓雷木斯感覺好些，但他不確定這是否本來就應該如此。

It was a bad night. Maybe it was Moody’s presence. Maybe the wolf didn’t like heights. Maybe it could smell its usual playmates, Prongs and Padfoot, and felt lonely. Maybe the wolf just hated Remus, who knew. Either way, when he woke he found he’d ripped the room apart; torn at the blinds and scratched the floorboards. In the end, the wolf had chewed its own paws out of frustration. 這是一個糟糕的夜晚。也許是因為穆迪的存在。也許狼不喜歡高處。也許它能聞到平時的玩伴，叉子和尖頭，感到孤獨。也許狼只是恨雷木斯，誰知道呢。無論如何，當他醒來時，他發現自己把房間撕成了碎片；撕破了窗簾，刮傷了地板。最終，狼因為沮喪而咬傷了自己的爪子。

Hands bleeding, the skin all grazed away, Remus lay in the dark, his heart pounding, waiting for the pain to subside, or for someone to come and help him; whichever came first. 雙手流血，皮膚都擦傷了，雷木斯躺在黑暗中，心臟怦怦跳著，等待疼痛消退，或者等待有人來幫助他；無論哪個先到。

Mrs Potter patched him up, and did a good job, but he still struggled to hold his wand for a few days, while the skin grew back. He couldn’t hold a broomhandle, either, so had to just watch while Peter, Sirius and James practiced, like old times. 波特夫人給他包紮傷口，做得很好，但在皮膚長回來的幾天裡，他仍然難以握住魔杖。他也不能握住掃帚柄，所以只能像以前一樣看著彼得、小天狼星和詹姆斯練習。

Remus found other ways to occupy himself. He’d got hold of a copy of the telephone book and spent more time than was probably healthy looking up every ‘Jenkins’ in Bristol. There were lots of them, but no Hopes. Hopeless . It didn’t matter, he tried to tell himself. He’d got on all right for twelve years without her. 雷木斯找到了其他方法來打發時間。他拿到了一本電話簿，花了比健康狀況允許的更多時間查找布里斯托爾的每一個「詹金斯」。有很多，但沒有霍普斯。沒希望了。他試圖告訴自己，這沒關係。沒有她，他已經過了十二年了。

“Tell me a secret,” Sirius would whisper, late at night - every night, he came to Remus, “Tell me something no one knows.” 「告訴我一個秘密，」小天狼星會在深夜輕聲說——每個晚上，他都來找雷木斯，「告訴我一些沒人知道的事。」

And Remus would tell him - because it made Sirius happy, and that was a very worthwhile pursuit - in fact, Remus was realising, making Sirius happy might be the only thing worth doing, for the rest of his life. 雷木斯會告訴他——因為這讓小天狼星高興，而這是一個非常值得的追求——事實上，雷木斯意識到，讓小天狼星高興可能是他餘生唯一值得做的事。

“I’m the one who told Philomena Pettigrew to go to America.” 「是我告訴菲洛梅娜·佩蒂魯去美國的。」

“You never!” 「你不會吧！」

“Yep, in the bathroom on Christmas eve.” 「是的，在平安夜的浴室裡。」

“Sly bastard. How’d you get girls falling all over each other to talk to you, eh? what’s your secret?” 「狡猾的混蛋。你怎麼讓女孩們爭相和你說話的，嗯？你的秘密是什麼？」

“Maybe they trust me because they know I’m not trying to get off with them.” 「也許她們信任我，因為她們知道我不是想和她們調情。」

“An intriguing thought. Tell me another secret.” 「一個有趣的想法。再告訴我一個秘密。」

“Um… I don’t know, I’ve told you everything.” Everything that wouldn’t hurt you, he added, silently. 「嗯……我不知道，我已經告訴你一切了。」他默默地補充道，「一切不會傷害你的事。」

“You haven’t,” Sirius said, his lips now against Remus’s, as he crawled on top of him, hands sliding up under Remus’s night shirt. He flicked his tongue along Remus’s bottom lip, “I’m going to know everything about you, one day, I promise.” 「你沒有，」小天狼星說，他的嘴唇貼在雷木斯的嘴唇上，爬到他身上，雙手滑到雷木斯的睡衣下面。他的舌頭輕舔雷木斯的下唇，「我會知道你的一切，有一天，我保證。」

Remus kissed him deeply, believing every word. 雷木斯深深地吻了他，相信每一個字。

 

Chapter 118: Summer 1977: Part 5 

1977 and we are going mad

It's 1977 and we've seen too many ads

1977 and we're gonna show them all

Apathy's a drag.

 

Monday 29th August 1977

Remus awoke from his second full moon slightly better off than his last, but unable to move. Moody had bound him to the bed (kept in the attic specifically for this purpose) using some kind of advanced magic. It didn’t hurt, but it was pretty humiliating, having to lie there and wait to be released, without any clothes on. Sirius had been vehemently against the idea, but it didn’t hurt, and it was better than the alternative. Remus didn’t care how the wolf felt about it. 雷木斯從第二次滿月中醒來，比上次稍微好些，但無法動彈。穆迪用某種先進的魔法把他綁在床上（這個床專門放在閣樓上，用於這個目的）。這不疼，但非常羞辱，必須躺在那裡等著被解放，身上什麼都沒穿。小天狼星強烈反對這個主意，但這不疼，比另一種選擇要好。雷木斯不在乎狼對此有什麼感覺。

“Made a lot of noise,” Moody said, as he released him, “But that’s to be expected.” 「發出了很多噪音，」穆迪在解開他時說，「但這是意料之中的。」

“What do the others do?” Remus asked, pulling on his jeans quickly, wishing Moody would leave, or at least turn his back, “The werewolves the ministry knows about?” 「其他人怎麼做？」雷木斯一邊快速穿上牛仔褲，一邊問，希望穆迪能離開，或者至少轉過身，「那些魔法部知道的狼人？」

“Either deal with it at home like this - with an Auror checking in before and after - or report to the ministry holding cells. I’ll get you a leaflet, if you want.” 「要麼像這樣在家裡處理——有一名奧羅在前後檢查——要麼報到魔法部的拘留室。如果你想，我可以給你一份傳單。」

“No thanks.” 「不用了。」

Remus had the distinct impression that Moody did not approve of Remus’s decision not to register himself. 雷木斯有明顯的感覺穆迪不贊成雷木斯決定不登記自己。

Downstairs, in his normal bedroom, Mrs Potter had laid out a set of robes on the bed for him - not uniform robes, but normal, everyday ones. The sort that James and Sirius wore out of school. He hoped they were hand-me-downs; he didn’t know how he’d ever repay them if they started buying him clothes. 樓下，在他的普通臥室裡，波特夫人為他準備了一套長袍——不是制服長袍，而是普通的日常長袍。是詹姆斯和小天狼星放學後穿的那種。他希望這些是二手的；如果他們開始給他買衣服，他不知道自己該怎麼報答他們。

“They’re for going out in,” James explained, when Remus asked about it, “Diagon Alley today!” 「這些是用來出去穿的，」詹姆斯解釋說，當雷木斯詢問時，「今天去對角巷！」

With the first day of school not far off, it had been agreed that the boys would stay in Diagon Alley for the last few days of the summer holiday. Mr and Mrs Potter would be leaving for a few weeks - on business for Dumbledore, apparently, though they neither confirmed nor denied this. Even Moody could not argue with Remus going to Diagon Alley this time, 隨著開學的第一天不遠了，大家一致決定男孩們在暑假的最後幾天留在對角巷。波特夫婦將離開幾週——顯然是為了鄧布利多的工作，儘管他們既未確認也未否認這一點。即便是穆迪也無法反對雷木斯這次去對角巷，

“Crawling with Aurors, these days - under cover, you wouldn’t even know it.” 「現在到處都是奧羅——藏得很深，你甚至不會知道。」

“And I’m seventeen,” Remus said, curtly, “So I’m free to go where I please.” 「而且我已經十七歲了，」雷木斯簡短地說，「所以我可以自由地去我想去的地方。」

“Quite,” Euphemia said, tiredly. 「的確，」尤菲米婭疲倦地說。

Their Hogwarts letters had arrived only a week ago, and to everyone’s surprise James had been named Head Boy, as evidenced by a brand new gold pin tucked inside his envelope. 他們的霍格沃茲信件僅在一週前到達，令所有人驚訝的是，詹姆斯被任命為男生組長，信封裡裝著一個全新的金色徽章。

“Bloody hell!” James gasped, 「天哪！」詹姆斯驚呼道，

“What the fuck?!” Sirius frowned. 「什麼鬼？！」小天狼星皺起了眉頭。

“Language!” Mrs Potter scolded them both. 「語言！」波特夫人責罵了他們倆。

She’d been very proud, of course, but James was only interested in telling Lily, and rushed to owl her at once - in less than half an hour, they learned that she had been made Head Girl. 她當然非常驕傲，但詹姆斯只關心告訴莉莉，並立刻去寫信給她——不到半小時，他們得知她被任命為女生組長。

“It’s fate!” James declared, “Destiny!” 「這是命運！」詹姆斯宣布，「命運！」

They used Floo powder to get to The Leaky Cauldron, a homely, old fashioned wizard pub which doubled-up as a B&B, meeting place and general community centre, as far as Remus could tell. James had booked two twin rooms, and after being greeted by the odd looking, hunchbacked publican, the four marauders hauled their school trunks up the stairs to settle in. Remus was sharing with Peter, because neither Remus nor Sirius could come up with an excuse for sharing together. The rooms were adjoining, which was some small comfort, but not much. 他們用佛羅粉來到破釜酒吧，一個古樸、老式的巫師酒吧，按雷木斯的說法，這裡還兼作B&B、會議場所和一般的社區中心。詹姆斯預訂了兩間雙人房，在遇到那位外貌奇特、駝背的酒保後，四位搶奪者把他們的書包搬上樓安頓下來。雷木斯和彼得共用一間房，因為雷木斯和小天狼星都無法編造出共用的理由。房間是連通的，這有些安慰，但不多。

Diagon Alley was not like Hogsmeade, as Remus had thought it might be; it was more packed in, bustling, noisy - the wizarding equivalent of cosmopolitan. The streets were busy with throngs of students, and every shop was packed to the rafters. 對角巷並不像雷木斯以為的霍格斯密德那樣；這裡更擁擠、熙熙攘攘、嘈雜——是巫師界的繁華大都市。街上擠滿了成群的學生，每家商店都擠得滿滿當當。

Gringotts was the first port of call for everyone, and Remus followed James and Sirius around the palatial bank, struck dumb by the complete alienness of everything. Remus had never even been in a muggle bank before, but nothing could have prepared him for Gringotts; goblins and secret passageways and mountains and mountains of gold. James and Sirius swanned about like VIP members - mind you, they probably were. The goblins grovelled at their feet, which Remus found hugely distasteful, but couldn’t really say anything about. He wished Lily was there, or Marlene and Mary - anyone a bit more down to earth. 格林戈茨是大家的第一站，雷木斯跟著詹姆斯和小天狼星在這座宏偉的銀行裡，對一切的陌生感到目瞪口呆。雷木斯甚至從未進入過麻瓜銀行，但什麼也無法準備他面對格林戈茨；那裡有妖精和秘密通道，以及成山的黃金。詹姆斯和小天狼星像貴賓一樣翩翩而行——說實話，他們可能真的這樣。妖精們在他們腳下低頭行禮，這讓雷木斯感到極其厭惡，但他無法說什麼。他希望莉莉在那裡，或是瑪琳和瑪麗——任何一個更接地氣的人。

Remus found he had been left just under four hundred galleons in the vault which had once belonged to Lyall Lupin. This sounded like an enormous amount to Remus - until he saw the pitying look on Sirius’s face. He quietly took out enough for his books and some new robes, as well as a bit of spending cash to convert to muggle money. 雷木斯發現他在曾經屬於萊爾·雷木斯的保險庫中剩下了不到四百個加隆。對雷木斯來說，這聽起來是一個巨大的數字——直到他看到小天狼星臉上的憐憫神情。他靜靜地拿出了足夠購買書籍和一些新長袍的錢，以及一些花費現金以便兌換成麻瓜貨幣。

Remus was so shattered after the full moon and the floo powder and the bank, that once he’d withdrawn his money he had to go back to the room at the Leaky Cauldron to collapse. The others promised him they’d leave off shopping until the next day, and would spend the rest of their afternoon looking at brooms and quidditch supplies. Remus was too tired to care, and crashed out on his little single bed, dead to the world for at least fifteen hours. He didn’t even wake when the others came clattering in at midnight, smelling strongly of whisky, loudly shushing each other and giggling. 雷木斯在滿月、佛羅粉和銀行之後感到筋疲力盡，一旦取出錢後，他不得不回到破釜酒吧的房間裡倒下。其他人承諾將購物推遲到第二天，並將剩下的下午時間用來查看掃帚和魁地奇用品。雷木斯太累了，無心關心，倒在他的小單人床上，至少睡了十五個小時。他甚至沒有在其他人午夜闖入時醒來，他們帶著濃烈的威士忌氣味，大聲地互相嘘寒問暖和笑鬧。

The next day, Lily arrived, and their school shopping began in earnest. She and Remus had similarly methodical minds when it came to completing tasks, and conferred privately on a plan of action, before ordering the other three boys about for the rest of the morning. Remus wished he could have more time in Flourish and Blotts, but as they had done books last (being the heaviest items on the list), James, Sirius and Peter were seriously flagging by this point, and on the verge of mutiny if they didn’t get some ice cream. 第二天，莉莉到了，他們的學校購物正式開始。她和雷木斯在完成任務時有著類似的方法性思維，並私下商量了一個行動計劃，然後指揮其他三個男孩度過了上午的時間。雷木斯希望他能在弗盧里什和布羅茨書店多待一些時間，但由於他們最後才買書（因為它們是清單上最重的物品），詹姆斯、小天狼星和彼得在這個時候已經非常疲憊，快要叛變了，如果他們得不到一些冰淇淋的話。

So; back to The Leaky Cauldron to dump their goods and have some lunch, (“For god’s sake, James, you can’t have ice cream before you’ve had any real food, that’s ridiculous!”), then to Florean Fortescue’s, where Sirius tried to buy Remus a scoop of every single flavour (“C’mon, Moony, it’s only fair, you’ve never tried them before; how will you know which is your favourite?!”) 於是；回到破釜酒吧把他們的物品放下，吃午餐（「該死的詹姆斯，你不能在吃正餐之前吃冰淇淋，這太荒謬了！」），然後去弗洛里安·福特斯居斯的店，那裡小天狼星試圖給雷木斯每種口味的冰淇淋都來一勺（「來吧，小月亮，這是公平的，你從未嘗試過；你怎麼知道你最喜歡的是哪一種？」）

Once all of this had been completed, Remus found his energy almost completely depleted once again, and it was only two in the afternoon. He considered taking a quick nap, but it was their last night in London, and he had one thing he really needed to do before leaving. 完成所有這些後，雷木斯發現他的精力幾乎再次耗盡，而現在才下午兩點。他考慮過稍微打個盹，但這是他們在倫敦的最後一晚，他有一件事真的需要在離開之前做。

It took a little while to get a quiet moment to himself, but in the gent’s at Florean Fortescue’s, Remus took the opportunity to pull out his pocket watch. He clicked it upen - the mechanism every bit as satisfying as it had been the first time he’d used it - and whispered, “Grant Chapman,” at the compass half. 花了一點時間才得到一個安靜的時刻，但在弗洛里安·福特斯居斯的男廁所裡，雷木斯抓住了機會掏出他的懷錶。他打開了它——機械裝置的感覺和他第一次使用時一樣令人滿意——並在指南針的一半輕聲說：「格蘭特·查普曼。」

He expected the arrow to start pointing east, but much to his alarm, it began to spin uncontrollably around and around, faster and faster. The compass had not come with instructions, but Remus had a sinking feeling that something he’d known all along was finally being confirmed. Grant was not safe. Grant needed help. 他預期指針會開始指向東方，但令他驚慌的是，它開始不受控制地旋轉起來，越轉越快。指南針沒有說明書，但雷木斯有一種揪心的感覺，他一直知道的事情終於得到了確認。格蘭特不安全了。格蘭特需要幫助。

I live off you!

And you live off me!

And the whole world lives off of everybody

See we gotta be exploited!

See we gotta be exploited!

By somebody by somebody by somebody… 我依賴於你！

而你依賴於我！

整個世界都依賴於每一個人

看看我們得被利用！

看看我們得被利用！

被某人，被某人，被某人…

Remus hurried back to the little table outside the parlour, where his four friends were sitting, making a lot of raucous noise over something Peter had just done with his milkshake. 雷木斯匆匆回到客廳外的小桌子旁，他的四個朋友正在那裡坐著，因為彼得剛剛用他的奶昔做了些事情而發出很多喧鬧的聲音。

“Alright, Moony,” Sirius grinned as Remus hovered nearby, “This lot want to go and do some sightseeing stuff, but it sounds boring, want to bunk off down Carnaby street, finally?” 「好吧，小月亮，」小天狼星一邊笑著說，一邊看著雷木斯在旁邊徘徊，「這些人想去做些觀光的事情，但聽起來很無聊，要不要最後逃到卡納比街去？」

“Yeah, great!” Remus said, forcing a grin. He widened his eyes at Sirius, hoping he got the message. Thankfully, Sirius was very skilled at following secret signals, and came over at once, 「好啊，太好了！」雷木斯說，強行露出笑容。他向小天狼星擴大眼睛，希望他能明白。幸運的是，小天狼星非常擅長跟隨秘密信號，立刻過來了，

“What’s up?” He whispered, “You look a right state.” 「怎麼了？」他低聲問，「你看起來很慘。」

“I have to go and find Grant.” Remus said, agitated. “Look!” He showed Sirius the compass’ mad spinning. 「我得去找格蘭特。」雷木斯焦躁地說。「看看！」他給小天狼星看指南針瘋狂的旋轉。

“Right now?” Sirius frowned, “But we were going to--” 「現在？」小天狼星皺起了眉頭，「但我們要去——」

“Now.” Remus said. “I can’t explain it, I just have to, I know I have to. Could you tell James and Peter something? I don’t know what - just if they ask.” 「現在。」雷木斯說。「我無法解釋，我只是必須這麼做，我知道我必須這麼做。你能告訴詹姆斯和彼得些什麼嗎？我不知道說什麼——只是如果他們問的話。」

“What? No, I’m coming with you!” 「什麼？不，我要跟你一起去！」

“Sirius…” 「小天狼星……」

“Remus.” Sirius mocked his stern tone and quirked an eyebrow. 「雷木斯。」小天狼星模仿了他的嚴厲語氣，挑了挑眉毛。

Remus sighed. This was probably one of those things he was supposed to include Sirius in. He swallowed his temper and relented. 雷木斯嘆了口氣。這可能是他應該讓小天狼星參與的事情之一。他壓抑住脾氣，讓步了。

“Ok, fine.” 「好吧，沒問題。」

“Shall we just tell the others where we’re going?” 「我們就告訴其他人我們要去哪裡嗎？」

“No. Don’t argue with me on this.” He didn’t want anyone else knowing about Grant. 「不。不要在這上面和我爭論。」他不想讓其他人知道關於格蘭特的事。

Sirius, apparently recognising that Remus would only go so far, nodded, and didn’t push his luck. They told the others they were going to Carnaby Street, to look at the shops, paid and hurried away, without looking back. 小天狼星顯然意識到雷木斯的底線，點了點頭，沒有再推進。他們告訴其他人他們要去卡納比街看商店，付了錢，匆忙離開，沒有回頭。

They had to go and change into muggle clothes first, and once they had left Diagon Alley they headed for Charing Cross station and caught two tubes to the squat in Mile End, which Remus thought was probably the best starting point. By the time they got there it was almost four in the afternoon. 他們首先需要換上麻瓜的衣服，一旦離開對角巷，他們便前往查令十字車站，搭乘兩輛地鐵到達米爾恩德的臨時住處，雷木斯認為這可能是最好的起點。當他們到達那裡時，已經接近下午四點。

Remus wasn’t sure if it was a year of neglect or just hindsight that made the rundown block of tenements look much less welcoming than they had last summer. The smell of damp was stronger, part of the linoleum seemed to have been ripped up, exposing dirty, cracked cream tile. It was a warm day, but it still felt cold inside. Adz, the man Remus had met the year before, was the only one of the original crowd still living there. 雷木斯不確定是因為一年的忽視還是僅僅是事後的回顧，使得這片破舊的公寓樓比去年夏天看起來更不友好。潮濕的氣味更強烈，一部分油膠地板似乎被撕裂，暴露出髒亂、破裂的奶油色瓷磚。這是一個溫暖的日子，但室內仍然感覺寒冷。阿茲，雷木斯去年遇到的那個人，是仍然住在那裡的原始人群中的唯一一位。

“Grant?” He scratched his head, looking dazed, “Yeah, I fink ‘e went out west, when it got too rough round ‘ere. ‘ammersmiff, maybe. Knocking this place down next week, I’m goin’ Brixton.” 「格蘭特？」他抓了抓頭，看起來很茫然，「嗯，我想他在這裡變得太艱難時去了西部。也許是哈默史密斯。下週要拆掉這個地方，我要去布里克斯頓。」

“Hammersmith?!” Remus said, “That’s the other side of town!” 「哈默史密斯？！」雷木斯說，「那是城鎮的另一邊！」

“Yeah ‘e made some friends out there I reckon. Grant’s always good at making friends , when it suits him.” 「是的，我想他在那裡交了一些朋友。格蘭特總是擅長交朋友，當他需要的時候。」

He said that a bit sharply, Remus didn’t like it, and automatically made himself taller, squaring his shoulders. Adz looked him up and down irritably and snapped, “Look, if ‘e don’t wanna be found, ‘e won’t be.” 他有點尖銳地說這話，雷木斯不喜歡這樣，立刻挺直了身子，擴展了肩膀。阿茲不耐煩地打量了他一眼，厲聲說：「看，如果他不想被找到，他就不會被找到。」

So, back on the Central line, and across the city they went. As they passed Tottenham Court Road, Remus felt guilty for ruining Sirius’s day in muggle London, and secretly promised to make it up to him when he next had the chance. Still, Sirius was having a surprisingly good time; as enthralled by the escalators and ticket barriers as Remus had been by Gringotts. 於是，他們又回到中央線，穿越城市。當他們經過托特納姆法院路時，雷木斯感到內疚，因為他破壞了小天狼星在麻瓜倫敦的一天，並暗自承諾下次有機會時會彌補。儘管如此，小天狼星似乎意外地過得很愉快；對電扶梯和票務閘機的著迷就像雷木斯對格林戈茨的著迷一樣。

They changed at Notting Hill, then walked, because Remus didn’t have a clue where he was going, except for his nose, and the compass, which was spinning less erratically now, and seemed to be trying to lead in in a vague direction. 他們在諾丁丘換乘，然後步行，因為雷木斯不知道自己要去哪裡，只有他的鼻子和指南針，指南針現在旋轉得不那麼無序了，看起來在試圖引導他去一個模糊的方向。

“It’s amazing,” Sirius said, staring up at the houses as they walked, peering into shop windows and stopping to watch double decker buses shunt past. “I’ve lived in London most of my life, and I’ve never seen it like this .” 「這真是太神奇了，」小天狼星說，一邊走一邊仰望房屋，窺視商店的窗戶，停下來看雙層巴士穿梭而過。「我在倫敦生活了大部分時間，但我從未見過這樣的景象。」

“Glad you’re having fun,” Remus said, distracted. They were in Shepherd’s Bush now, he was pretty sure. It was past six in the evening, and he was slowing down. His hip hurt from rattling about on the underground; his shins were sore from the walking, and his back hurt because of Moody’s awful binding spell. 「很高興你玩得開心，」雷木斯分心地說。他們現在在謝泼德布什，他很確定。已經過了晚上六點，他正在減速。他的臀部因為在地鐵上搖晃而疼痛；小腿因為走路而疼痛，背部因為穆迪的可怕束縛咒語而疼痛。

“Let’s sit down a minute, shall we?” Sirius asked, with a look of deep concern. “Look, there’s a park over there.” 「我們坐下來休息一下，好嗎？」小天狼星擔心地問道。「看看，那裡有個公園。」

It was Shepherd’s Bush green - at least Remus knew where they were. He consented to rest only for a short while - he was mostly worried that once he’d sat down it would be impossible to get up again. 那是謝泼德布什綠地——至少雷木斯知道他們在哪裡。他同意休息片刻——他主要擔心一旦坐下來，就很難再起身。

“Then I’ll carry you.” Sirius said. 「那我抱你。」小天狼星說。

“Piss off, will you.” Remus snorted, resting his elbows on his knees and leaning forward. He pulled out the compass to check it once more. “Ugh, it’s going mental again!” He groaned, “I thought I was getting somewhere…” 「滾開，好嗎。」雷木斯哼了一聲，把肘部靠在膝蓋上，向前傾身。他拿出指南針再次檢查。「噢，它又瘋狂了！」他呻吟道，「我以為我快找到地方了……」

 

“It might be because you’re agitated” Sirius suggested, delicately. “Er… you know, because it feeds off your emotion towards the person you’re looking for. So maybe if you…” 「這可能是因為你很激動。」小天狼星細心地建議道。「呃……你知道，因為它會受到你對尋找的人情緒的影響。所以也許如果你……」

 

“Are you telling me to calm down?” Remus frowned.

 

“It might help.” Sirius replied, evenly. “How about you tell me something about Grant? Something nice?”

 

“If you think it will help…” They didn’t have time for this, Grant needed him right now … But at this point, Remus was willing to try anything. Even if it was just a ploy from Sirius to get more information. “Er… his name’s Grant Chapman. I met him at St. Edmund’s in 1975. He liked the same music as me, he’s friendly, er…”
「如果你覺得這會有幫助……」他們沒有時間再浪費了，格蘭特現在需要他……但此時雷木斯願意嘗試任何事情。即使這只是小天狼星的計謀，想要獲得更多的資訊。「呃……他的名字是格蘭特·查普曼。我在1975年在聖艾德蒙斯遇到過他。他喜歡和我一樣的音樂，他很友善，呃……」

“What does he look like?”
「他長什麼樣子？」

“You’ve seen him.”
「你見過他。」

“Not properly, I was a dog. Anyway, the point is to get you to think about him.”
「我沒看清楚，我當時是一隻狗。不管怎麼說，重點是讓你想起他。」

“I’m doing nothing but think about him.” Remus snapped. He closed his eyes and breathed in. “Fair hair. Curls. Er… I think blue eyes? Yeah, blue. He has a crooked front tooth. Last time I saw him he was thinner…” A swell of anxiety rose in his throat. “Er... “ he stammered.
「我什麼都沒做，就只是在想他。」雷木斯厲聲說。他閉上眼睛，深吸了一口氣。「金色的頭髮。捲曲的。呃……我想是藍色的眼睛？對，藍色。他有一顆歪斜的前牙。上次我見到他時，他瘦了……」一股焦慮在他的喉嚨中湧起。「呃……」他結結巴巴地說。

“Go on,” Sirius encouraged, “You like the same music? So Bowie? T.Rex.”
「繼續，」小天狼星鼓勵道，「你們喜歡相同的音樂？所以是鮑伊？T.Rex？」

“Yeah, and he likes, um… Deep Purple.”
「是的，他還喜歡，嗯……深紫。」

“Cool, ok, so that’s how you became friends?”
「酷，那麼這就是你們成為朋友的原因？」

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, feeling a bit better, focussing on the positive, “He was the only one at St Eddy’s that wasn’t a complete maniac, or a criminal - I mean, he had a few charges, but not like… not serious. Then one day he er… well he just kissed me, and that’s how I knew…” Remus glanced at Sirius quickly to check that it was ok to keep going. Sirius’s smile had tightened a bit, but he nodded again. “He’s been a good friend, apart from that,” Remus explained, “He never makes me feel bad about myself. He never makes me feel odd, or different.”
「是的，」雷木斯點點頭，感覺好了一些，專注於積極的方面，「他是聖艾迪那裡唯一一個不是完全瘋子或者罪犯的人——我是說，他有過一些指控，但不是……不是嚴重的。然後有一天他，呃……他就吻了我，這樣我就知道了……」雷木斯快速地看了一眼小天狼星，以確保繼續講下去是可以的。小天狼星的微笑有些緊繃，但他再次點頭。「除了那個之外，他一直是個好朋友，」雷木斯解釋道，「他從來不讓我對自己感到不好。他從來不讓我感到奇怪或者不同。」

“He sounds like a really great mate.” Sirius said, politely.
「他聽起來真是一個很棒的朋友。」小天狼星禮貌地說。

“Yeah. And he’d do anything for me. That’s why I need to…” He looked down at the compass, and saw that now it was pointing west - a little shaky, but clear enough for Remus.
「是的。他會為我做任何事情。這就是我需要……」他低頭看著指南針，看到它現在指向西方——有些搖晃，但對雷木斯來說還算清晰。

They got up and followed. It was past seven now, they hadn’t eaten since lunch and the sun was beginning to set. Lily, James and Peter would no doubt be wondering where they were. Sirius didn’t complain, just kept quiet and followed while Remus mumbled to himself, following the little golden arrow in his palm and sniffing the thick London air.
他們起身跟隨。現在已經過了七點，他們自午餐以來就沒有吃過東西，夕陽開始落下。莉莉、詹姆斯和彼得肯定會在想他們在哪裡。小天狼星沒有抱怨，只是默默跟隨，而雷木斯自言自語地跟隨手掌中的金色箭頭，嗅著濃厚的倫敦空氣。

Shepherd’s Bush wasn’t much nicer than Mile End, and seemed to have a buzzing nightlife. Pubs and clubs were filling up around them with teens and young people from every subculture; disco kids in bright satin and sequins, grimy skinheads in suspenders and boots, old school rockers with shaggy hair and punks with studded jackets and faces full of metal. Finally, as they were coming up on Latimer Road, Remus stopped still.
「謝菲德布什區」沒有比「邁爾恩德」好多少，並且似乎有著熱鬧的夜生活。酒吧和俱樂部周圍填滿了來自各種亞文化的青少年和年輕人；穿著亮色緞面和亮片的迪斯科孩子、穿著吊帶褲和靴子的髒兮兮的皮膚頭，蓬亂的髮型的老式搖滾樂迷和穿著鉚釘夾克、滿臉金屬的朋克。最後，當他們來到拉蒂默路時，雷木斯停住了腳步。

“There.” He said, pointing across the darkening street to a building with blacked out windows, and steps leading down into a basement. Loud music was pounding up onto the street - whoever the band was, they had little regard for their instruments, and even less for the audience’s eardrums. “He’s in there.” Remus said, firmly. The compass confirmed this, pointing straight ahead.
「那裡。」他說，指著逐漸變暗的街道對面的一棟窗戶被黑色遮擋、樓梯通向地下室的建築。大聲的音樂震撼著街道——無論那支樂隊是誰，他們對自己的樂器毫不在意，對觀眾的耳膜更是毫無顧忌。「他在那裡。」雷木斯堅定地說。指南針確認了這一點，指向前方。

The basement - looked a bit livelier than Remus was comfortable with. As well as the ‘music’, loud shouts and screams were blaring from inside, east end accents, teenage rage. Skinny, yellow-toothed punks stood outside in packs, green spikey hair and heavy bike chains. Remus felt horribly vulnerable in his worn out brown corduroys and oversized grandad shirt, but Sirius was even more out of place, with his long hippie hair and unmistakably well-bred posture.
地下室——看起來比雷木斯能夠接受的要活躍一些。除了‘音樂’之外，裡面還傳來了大聲的吼叫和尖叫，東區口音，青春期的憤怒。瘦弱、黃牙的朋克們成群結隊地站在外面，綠色的尖髮和沉重的摩托車鏈。雷木斯穿著磨損的棕色燈芯絨褲和過大的爺爺襯衫，感覺非常脆弱，但小天狼星的情況更為格格不入，他那長長的嬉皮士頭髮和顯而易見的優雅姿態。

“Should we go in?” Sirius asked, without a trace of nerves.
「我們應該進去嗎？」小天狼星問道，臉上沒有一絲緊張。

“Um.” Remus said. He was about to suggest that he go alone, when fate intervened.
「嗯。」雷木斯說。他正打算提議他自己去的時候，命運介入了。

 

 

“Sling yer ‘ook ya fucking nancy boy,” the bouncer was yelling at a young man, who was staggering out onto the street, head bent, hands in pockets. He had a mess of dirty blond hair, and a scent that Remus would know anywhere on earth.
「把你的手拿開，你這個混蛋嬲娃。」保安對一名年輕人喊道，那人踉蹌地走上街道，低著頭，雙手插在口袋裡。他有一頭亂糟糟的髒金色頭髮，散發著雷木斯在地球上任何地方都能識別的氣味。

“Grant!” Remus bolted towards him, running across the road without even looking.
「格蘭特！」雷木斯朝他跑去，甚至沒有看路就衝過了馬路。

Grant didn’t hear, and was making his way slowly down the street, hunched over. There was something wrong with the way he was walking; his gait twisted and skewed. He reeked of cheap gin, even standing meters away. The punks were leering at him, yelling vile obscenities to chase him off. Grant turned and sneered back, throwing up two fingers and warbling incoherently.
格蘭特沒有聽到，慢慢地走在街上，佝僂著身子。他的步伐有些異樣，扭曲而歪斜。他身上散發著廉價杜松子酒的味道，即使相隔幾米也能聞到。那些朋克盯著他看，喊著粗鄙的話語驅逐他。格蘭特轉過身來，對他們冷笑，豎起兩根手指，語無倫次地嘮叨。

“Grant!” Remus said again, catching him up, beneath a yellow street light. Grant finally stopped and turned, squinting. The wall behind him had been spray painted with various disparate slogans:
「格蘭特！」雷木斯再次喊道，追上他，站在一盞黃色街燈下。格蘭特終於停下來，轉過身來，眯著眼睛。身後的牆上被噴上了各種不同的標語：

‘EAT THE RICH’,

‘BUZZ KIDS AND THE GIRL NEXT DOOR/DON’T WANNA PLAY IN YOUR COLD WAR’,

‘FUCK NATIONAL SERVICE’.

“Jesus Christ. What are you doin’ here?” Grant lurched and wobbled, drunk, leaned against a wall and clutched side, as if something was hurting him there.
「我的天啊。你在這裡做什麼？」格蘭特搖搖晃晃地站立，喝醉了，靠在牆上，捂著側身，好像那裡有什麼地方在痛。

“Looking for you!” Remus walked up to him, trying to see his face, obscured by shadow.
「找你來的！」雷木斯走近他，試圖看清他的臉，但被陰影遮擋。

“Right, obviously… bloody hell, how do you manage it every time?!” Grant shook his head.
「對，顯然……真是該死，你每次都怎麼辦到的？！」格蘭特搖了搖頭。

He didn’t look good. He looked dreadful. He was thin; thinner than he should be, thinner than was really healthy. His hair was lank and looked like it hadn’t been washed in a while, and he had a patchwork of bruises down one side of his face, disappearing under his t-shirt, purple and ugly.
他看起來很糟糕。他非常瘦，瘦得比應該的還要多，瘦得不健康。他的頭髮垂直無光，看起來有一段時間沒洗了，他的臉頰一側滿是瘀傷，延續到他的T恤下，紫色又醜陋。

“What happened to you?”
「你發生了什麼事？」

“Fucking punk happened, didn’t it?” Grant laughed, a horrid choking sound, then staggered again and sat on the pavement. “Sorry mate, bit dizzy.” He retched a few times, but nothing came up, so he spat.
「是他們這些該死的朋克。」格蘭特笑著，發出可怕的窒息聲，然後再次踉蹌地坐在了人行道上。「對不起，朋友，有點頭暈。」他嘔吐了幾次，但什麼也吐不出來，所以他吐了口水。

Remus squatted beside him, hands trembling.
雷木斯蹲在他旁邊，雙手顫抖。

“Who did this? Did it happen in there?!” He leaned over, trying to get a proper look at Grant’s poor battered face.
「誰幹的？是在那裡發生的嗎？！」他俯身，試圖仔細看一下格蘭特那張受傷的臉。

It was definitely Grant, but he was changed almost beyond recognition. Gone was the bright blue denim and cheeky grin Remus remembered. Replaced by torn black drainpipes, haunted sallow eyes, nasty looking piercings in his nose, eyebrow, lip that were definitely infected.
這無疑是格蘭特，但他已經變得幾乎無法辨認了。消失的是雷木斯記得的明亮藍色牛仔布和顽皮的笑容。取而代之的是撕裂的黑色窄褲，幽靈般的蒼白眼睛，令人作嘔的穿孔在他的鼻子、眉毛、嘴唇上，顯然已經感染了。

“Gerroff,” Grant swung out, wildly, drunkenly. He wouldn’t have hit Remus, and it wouldn’t have hurt if he had, but Sirius leapt forward in an instant,
「滾開，」格蘭特搖搖晃晃地揮動。他不會打到雷木斯，即使打了也不會很痛，但小天狼星瞬間向前跳了過來，

“Oi, back off, mate,”
「喂，退後，朋友，」

Grant blinked and looked up at Sirius, raising a hand up to shield his eyes from the brightness of the street lamps. He frowned, then sneered,
格蘭特眨了眨眼，看向小天狼星，舉起手來遮擋街燈的光亮。他皺了皺眉頭，然後冷笑，

“And ‘oo the fuck are you!? Piss off will ya, I’m talkin’ to my mate.” He turned to Remus, “Fancy a pint?” And tried to haul himself back to his feet. Remus helped him, gripping him firmly under the elbow.
「你他媽的是誰？！滾開，我在跟我的朋友說話。」他轉向雷木斯，「想來杯啤酒嗎？」並試圖重新站起來。雷木斯幫助他，牢牢地抓住他的手肘。

“I don’t think you need any more to drink… how about some dinner?”
「我覺得你不需要再喝酒了……怎麼樣，吃點晚餐？」

A flash of sobriety returned to Grant’s features,
格蘭特的臉上閃過一絲清醒，

“Got cash?”
「有錢嗎？」

“Yes, of course,” Remus nodded, trying to guide him away from the horrible street they were on, “Come on, I’ll buy you dinner, what would you like?”
「是的，當然，」雷木斯點點頭，試圖引導他離開他們所處的可怕街道，「來吧，我請你吃晚餐，你想吃什麼？」

“Oh, y’know me, I’m easy ,” Grant cackled, leaning heavily against him, but at least allowing himself to be led.
「哦，你知道我，我很隨便，」格蘭特咯咯笑道，沉重地靠在他身上，但至少讓自己被引導著。

Sirius followed, looking very uncomfortable. Grant didn’t even notice until they’d reached a cafe, some way up the road. Sobering up a bit more by then, he was still leaning on Remus, and Remus could hear a strange hitch in his breath that told him Grant was in pain.
小天狼星跟著，看起來非常不舒服。格蘭特直到他們到達一家咖啡館時才注意到，這家咖啡館在路上稍遠的地方。到那時他已經稍微清醒了一些，但仍然依賴著雷木斯，雷木斯能聽到他呼吸中的奇怪喘息聲，告訴他格蘭特在痛苦。

“In here?” Remus turned to Sirius, questioning. Sirius glanced at the illuminated window, the cheap plastic chairs inside, with a faint look of disdain, but shrugged,
「就在這裡？」雷木斯轉向小天狼星，詢問。小天狼星瞥了一眼明亮的窗戶和裡面的廉價塑料椅子，帶著一絲輕蔑的表情，但還是耸了耸肩，

“Probably the best we’ll find around here.”
「這裡可能是我們能找到的最好的地方了。」

“You again!” Grant grumbled, “Thought I told ya to naff off.”
「又是你！」格蘭特嘟囔道，「我以為我告訴過你們離開。」

“Grant,” Remus said, gently, “This is Sirius, my friend from school.”
「格蘭特，」雷木斯輕聲說，「這位是小天狼星，我學校的朋友。」

Grant did a double take, narrowing his eyes (or eye, anyway, only one of them opened properly),
格蘭特瞪大了眼睛，眯起眼睛（或者說眼睛，反正只有一隻眼睛真正睜開），

“Well fuck me.” He murmured, still swaying, “Proper stunner.”
「那真是他媽的。」他低聲說，仍然搖搖晃晃地站著，「真正的美人。」

Sirius looked embarrassed, so Remus herded Grant into the cafe to sit down, ordering three cups of tea and a pie and chips. Chicken and mushroom.
小天狼星看起來很尷尬，於是雷木斯把格蘭特推進咖啡館坐下，點了三杯茶，一份餡餅和薯條。雞肉和蘑菇口味的。

“I don’t want no trouble from you.” The burly man behind the counter said, as he set the mugs of greyish tea down. “I know your types.”
「我不想從你這裡惹麻煩。」櫃檯後面那個魁梧的男人說，放下灰色的茶杯。「我知道你們這些人。」

“Piss off ya dirty old man,” Grant slurred, “Bet you’d pay for it if you could.”
「滾開，你這個髒老頭，」格蘭特口齒不清地說，「我敢打賭你會付錢的，如果你能的話。」

“What did I say?!”
「我說了什麼？！」

“Look,” Remus stood up, quickly, “He’s sobering up, I’ll keep him quiet, I swear. I’ll paid up front, he’ll be ok once he’s eating…”
「看，」雷木斯迅速站起來說，「他在清醒過來，我會讓他安靜下來，我發誓。我會先付錢，他吃了東西就會好的……」

The large man looked at him appraisingly, his eyes flicking to Sirius, still seated, then Grant, then back to Remus,
那位大漢打量著他，目光掃過仍坐著的小天狼星，再看向格蘭特，然後又回到雷木斯身上，

“What are you, Christian Outreach?”
「你們是基督教外展組織嗎？」

“Sort of.” Remus nodded, trying to look religious. Whatever religious looked like. Anyway, it satisfied the cafe owner, who lumbered back behind his counter, presumably to heat up their food.
「算是吧。」雷木斯點點頭，試圖看起來像個宗教人士。無論宗教人士看起來怎樣。反正這樣讓咖啡館老板滿意了，他回到櫃檯後面，大概是去加熱他們的食物。

“Cor,” Grant laughed into his tea, “You get posher by the bloody year, Remus me old mucker.”
「哇，」格蘭特笑著喝茶，「你變得越來越高尚了，我老朋友雷木斯。」

“Just please stop trying to fight everyone for five minutes, will you?”
「請你至少五分鐘不要再和人打架，好嗎？」

Grant blew a raspberry, then giggled.
格蘭特噗噗地吹了個口哨，然後咯咯笑了起來。

When the food arrived, Grant tucked into it as if he hadn’t eaten in weeks. Remus hoped that wasn’t true, but judging by the state of his boney frame, things didn’t look good. The pie and chips were demolished in minutes, and Remus ordered a bakewell tart for afters, as well as some more tea.
食物來了，格蘭特像是幾周沒吃飯一樣狼吞虎嚥。雷木斯希望這不是真的，但根據他那副骨瘦如柴的模樣，情況看起來並不好。餡餅和薯條在幾分鐘內被吞噬了，雷木斯又點了一個Bakewell tart作為甜點，以及一些茶。

“Where are you living?” He asked, hoping he sounded kind, and not accusatory. “What were you doing in that club?”
「你住在哪裡？」他問，希望自己聽起來是善意的，而不是指責的。「你在那個俱樂部做什麼？」

“Getting bladdered.” Grant murmured. He was calmer now he’d eaten, slower, and more pliant.
「喝得爛醉。」格蘭特低聲說。他現在吃過東西後變得更冷靜了，動作緩慢，變得更柔順。

“Well, you’ve achieved that. The bruises…”
「好吧，你達到了。那些瘀傷……」

Grant looked up, suddenly, right at Remus. He was stone cold sober, his eyes sharp and wide, as if Remus’s face was a mirror and he was seeing himself for the first time. He touched his grubby fingers to the marred side of his cheek.
格蘭特突然抬頭，直視雷木斯。他完全清醒了，眼睛銳利而睜大，就像雷木斯的臉是鏡子，他第一次看見自己一樣。他用髒兮兮的手指碰了碰他臉上的傷痕。

“Got into an altercation few days ago.” He said, “But fuck it, I’m off tomorrow, going down Brighton. Sick of bloody London. Sick of bloody miserable fucking London. Everyone wants to get at ya, do you over, any way they can. D’you know what I mean?”
「幾天前發生了一場爭執。」他說，「但去他媽的，我明天就走，去布賴頓。我厭倦了該死的倫敦。厭倦了該死的悲慘倫敦。每個人都想整你，想法子弄你。你明白我的意思嗎？」

“Yeah,” Remus breathed. He felt so helpless. He wanted to look to Sirius for reassurance, but it seemed somehow disrespectful to Grant.
「是的，」雷木斯輕聲說。他感到無比無助。他想向小天狼星尋求安慰，但這樣似乎對格蘭特不太尊重。

“‘ow’s school, poshnob?” Grant asked, slurping his tea like a builder.
「學校怎麼樣，老高尚？」格蘭特邊喝茶邊問，像個工人一樣啜飲。

“Oh.. ok, you know. Fine. What’s in Brighton? Somewhere to live? A job? How are you getting there?”
「哦……還好，你知道的。沒問題。布賴頓有什麼？住的地方？工作？你打算怎麼去那裡？」

“Got friends,” Grant shrugged, then winced. He’d broken a rib, Remus realised, and scolded himself for not having noticed earlier.
「有朋友，」格蘭特耸了耸肩，然後皺了皺眉。他的肋骨斷了，雷木斯意識到這點，並責怪自己之前沒有注意到。

“Do you need to go to a hospital? How long have you been like this?”
「你需要去醫院嗎？你這樣有多久了？」

“No hospitals,” Grant grumbled, curling up in his seat protectively, “They fink I’m a skag head. Probably look like one, do I?”
「不去醫院，」格蘭特嘟囔道，保護性地縮在座位上，「他們以為我是個毒品成癮者。我看起來像嗎？」

“I went to Mile End, I saw Adz.”
「我去了邁爾恩德，我見過阿茲。」

“That cunt. He can fuck right off ‘n all. Look, lend me a tenner will ya? I’m good for it, gimme your address an’ I’ll pay ya back.”
「那混蛋。他也可以去他媽的。看，借我十鎊，好嗎？我會還你的，給我你的地址，我會還給你的。」

“Not if you’re just going to get drunk on it.”
「如果你只是拿來喝酒，那可不行。」

“Oi, Mr high an’ mighty! I’ll ‘ave you know I deserve a good drink. I’ve ‘ad me heart broken. You remember what that’s like.”
「喂，高高在上的先生！我要讓你知道我值得好好喝一杯。我心都碎了。你還記得那種感覺嗎？」

He gave Sirius a less than subtle glare. Sirius, to his credit, did not react, but stared at the sugar bowl. Someone had put their cigarette out in it.
他給了小天狼星一個不太含蓄的瞪視。小天狼星倒是沒有反應，只是盯著糖罐看。有人把煙頭熄在裡面。

“I’m really sorry, Grant.” Remus said, sincerely, “Look… where are you sleeping at the moment?”
「我真的很抱歉，格蘭特。」雷木斯真誠地說，「你現在在哪裡睡覺？」

“Up the road,”
「就在上面的路上。」

“Is it safe there?”
「那裡安全嗎？」

“Lost my key.”
「丟了鑰匙。」

Well, Remus thought to himself. At least there's a lock. He’d been halfway to deciding to smuggle Grant back to Diagon Alley and just facing the consequences when they got caught.
雷木斯在心裡想。至少那裡有鎖。他已經考慮到一半，決定把格蘭特偷偷帶回對角巷，然後面對被抓到的後果。

They ordered more tea and Grant ate some more. Once he’d finished, he had grown agreeably soft and sleepy; drunk on a full stomach. Sirius and Remus helped him back to his room, in an old Edwardian terrace which looked as though it had been abandoned for years. Still, inside was busy and homelier than the condemned Mile End building. A young woman peered out if the next room along, mousy, freckled face at odds with her gunge green Mohawk.
他們又點了些茶，格蘭特也多吃了一些。吃完後，他變得舒服而昏昏欲睡；酒醉於飽腹。小天狼星和雷木斯幫他回到他的房間，那是一個看起來已經被廢棄多年的古老愛德華時期的排屋。不過，裡面雖然擁擠，但比被拆除的邁爾恩德建築更像家。一個年輕的女人從隔壁的房間探出頭來，臉上有雀斑，與她的泥綠色莫霍克頭髮形成了鮮明對比。

“Grant? Gawd, you pissed again? I told you vodka’s not a fucking painkiller, go to a bloody doctor!” She looked up at Remus, “Who’re you?”
「格蘭特？天啊，你又喝醉了？我告訴過你伏特加不是他媽的止痛藥，去看個該死的醫生！」她抬頭看著雷木斯，「你是誰？」

“A friend, I’m just trying to make sure he's ok…”
「一個朋友，我只是想確保他沒事……」

“He’ll be fine, he gets like this.”
「他會好的，他就是這樣。」

Sirius performed a silent unlocking charm on Grant’s door and Remus half carried Grant inside, settling him as carefully as he could onto the single mattress on the floor. It was a small room, with one tiny round window. Unfurnished, there was a stack of magazines in one corner with a lamp perched on top, a rucksack stuffed with clothes, a mirror which was rusting around the edges, and what looked like a small washing station - a bar of soap, a toothbrush and empty bowl.
小天狼星對格蘭特的門施了個靜音開鎖咒，雷木斯半抱著格蘭特進了屋，把他儘可能小心地放在地上的單人床墊上。這是一個小房間，只有一個小圓窗。沒有家具，一角堆放著一疊雜誌，上面擱著一盞燈，一個裝滿衣物的背包，一面鏡子邊緣已經生銹，還有一個看起來像是小洗漱區的東西——一塊肥皂、一把牙刷和一個空碗。

Grant curled up on the mattress and began to snore softly. Remus knelt beside him, frowning. The punk girl stood in the doorway, arms folded, looking Sirius up and down.
格蘭特蜷縮在床墊上，開始輕輕打鼾。雷木斯跪在他旁邊，皺著眉頭。朋克女孩站在門口，雙臂交叉，打量著小天狼星。

“He said he was going to Brighton tomorrow,” Remus said to her, “Is that true?”
「他說他明天要去布賴頓，」雷木斯對她說，「這是真的嗎？」

“If he got the money together for his train fare,” she shrugged, “Said it got nicked, last week. He was seeing this really rough type. Treated him like shit, poor love.”
「如果他湊齊了火車票錢，」她耸了耸肩，「他說上週被偷了。他和這個非常粗暴的人在一起。對他不好，真可憐。」

“He’ll have the money.” Remus said, firmly. “Will you make sure he goes? It will be safe?”
「他會有錢的。」雷木斯堅定地說，「你能確保他會去嗎？那裡會安全嗎？」

“I’m not his keeper,” she shrugged, backing out, “Got enough problems.”
「我不是他的看護人，」她耸了耸肩，退回房間，「我有自己的麻煩。」

“Charming.” Sirius said with a raised eyebrow as she vanished back into her room.
「真有魅力。」小天狼星 raised his eyebrow 說道，當她消失回到她的房間裡。

“Shut the door,” Remus said, pulling out his wand. He wanted to fix as much as he could while Grant was still sleeping. He ran through his list of healing spells - he’d only done them on himself, so far, but nothing had gone very badly wrong…
「關上門，」雷木斯說，掏出他的魔杖。他想在格蘭特還在睡覺的時候盡可能修復。 他回顧了他的治療咒語清單——到目前為止，只是對自己做過，但沒有出現嚴重錯誤……

“What the hell are you doing?!” Sirius came over, as Remus aimed his wand at Grant’s chest. “What about the Statute of Secrecy?!”
「你到底在幹什麼？！」小天狼星走過來，看到雷木斯將魔杖對準格蘭特的胸口。「《保密法》怎麼辦？！」

“Bugger that,” Remus grunted, “I can’t just leave him like this.”
「管它呢，」雷木斯咕噥道，「我不能就這樣放著他不管。」

Sirius stepped back and watched as Remus did his best to heal Grant’s ribs, then clear up the bruises and blackened eye. Afterwards he leaned back, mind racing. He turned to Sirius, “Right, I think I need to stay here tonight.” He said, “I could leave him some money, but… I think it’s better if I make sure he gets to Brighton tomorrow, if that’s still what he wants to do, when he’s sober.”
小天狼星退後一步，看著雷木斯盡力治療格蘭特的肋骨，然後清理瘀傷和黑眼圈。之後，他靠回去，心思飛速轉動。他轉向小天狼星，「對，我想我今晚需要留下來。」他說，「我可以留下點錢，但……我覺得最好還是確保他明天能去布賴頓，如果他還想去的話，等他清醒了再說。」

“Right,” Sirius nodded, “We’ve got to get to King’s Cross, though…”
「好，」小天狼星點頭說，「不過我們得去國王十字車站……」

“Yeah, I’ll be on time. I can just apparate from Victoria.”
「是的，我會準時的。我可以從維多利亞瞬移過去。」

“Ok.” Sirius nodded again. He sat down, leaning against the opposite wall. He took off his jacket and folded it underneath himself.
「好的。」小天狼星再次點頭。他坐下，靠在對面的牆上。他脫下外套，摺好放在自己下面。

 

 

“What are you doing?” Remus asked, “You need to go back to Diagon Alley.”
「你在幹什麼？」雷木斯問，「你需要回到對角巷。」

“No I don’t.” Sirius shrugged. “I can stay.”
「不需要。」小天狼星耸耸肩。「我可以留下來。」

“But James…”
「但是詹姆斯……」

“Oh right, yeah, hang on…” Sirius reached into his pocket and pulled out the compact mirror. Remus gazed at it enviously. He wished he had one. He’d give it to Grant, and never lose him again. “Oi, Potter, you there? Prongs?” Sirius was speaking into the device, “Hiya… look, me and Moony are going to a gig here, we’ll be in late… don’t tell anyone, ok? See you tomorrow… yeah… yeah… no, I promise. Ok. Cheers.” He snapped it closed and looked at Remus, “There, done.”
「哦對，對，等一下……」小天狼星從口袋裡拿出那個小鏡子。雷木斯嫉妒地看著它。他希望自己也有一個。他會把它給格蘭特，再也不會丟失他。「喂，波特，你在嗎？小鹿？」小天狼星對著裝置說，「嗨……看，我和穆尼要去參加一個演出，我們會晚點回去……別告訴別人，好的？明天見……對……對……不，我保證。好了。謝謝。」他把鏡子合上，看著雷木斯，「好了，搞定。」

“You didn’t have to do that. If you’re worried about leaving me here with him, I’m really just making sure he’s ok.”
「你不必這麼做。如果你擔心把我留在這裡，我只是確保他沒事。」

“And I’m making sure you’re ok, Remus.” Sirius replied coolly. “I’m not leaving you to spend all night alone in this place. C’mon, let’s get comfortable. Plenty of floor to go around…”
「而我則是確保你沒事，雷木斯。」小天狼星冷冷地說。「我不會讓你在這裡孤單過夜的。來吧，我們找個地方舒服一下。地板夠用的……」

Remus’s guilt soared even higher then, as Sirius gave him a bright grin and extended an arm towards him. His last night before school, spent on the floor of some muggle halfway house, and he wasn’t even complaining about it. Remus sat down too, and slouched down to settle under Sirius’s arm. At least they were together now. Sirius kissed his head, and they both watched Grant, sleeping like a child.
雷木斯的內疚感更加升高了，小天狼星給了他一個燦爛的笑容，伸出手臂。學校開學前的最後一晚，他就在某個麻瓜中途之家地板上度過，甚至沒有抱怨。雷木斯也坐下來，靠在小天狼星的手臂下。至少他們現在在一起了。小天狼星親吻了他的頭，他們兩人看著格蘭特，像孩子般熟睡著。

“I’m sorry.” Remus said, exhausted, “He’s not… I don’t want you to think he usually acts this way. He’s obviously had a bad time.”
「對不起。」雷木斯疲憊地說，「他不是……我不想讓你覺得他平時是這樣的。他顯然經歷了艱難時期。」

“What happened to him?” Sirius asked, very quietly, “What happened to make him end up here, like this?”
「他發生了什麼事？」小天狼星非常輕聲地問，「發生了什麼事讓他變成這樣？」

“He got kicked out of St Edmund’s, two years ago,” Remus yawned, his eyes growing heavy. “Didn’t have anywhere else to go… can’t get a job because he didn’t do his exams at school. And I’m guessing he hasn’t got a proper address.”
「他兩年前被從聖愛德蒙德學校開除了，」雷木斯打了個哈欠，眼睛變得沉重。「沒有其他地方去……找不到工作，因為他沒做學校的考試。我猜他也沒有一個合適的地址。」

“Remus?”
「雷木斯？」

“Mm?”
「嗯？」

“This wouldn’t happen to you, would it? Because you’ve got us.”
「這不會發生在你身上吧？因為你有我們。」

“Yeah,” he murmured sleepily, only half paying attention, “I’ve got you, Padfoot. Don’t worry about me.”
「是的，」他迷迷糊糊地低語，只有一半注意，「我有你，天狼星。別擔心我。」

 

Chapter 119: Seventh Year: Back to School 

 

For a horrible moment just as he woke up, Remus forgot where he was. He took in the stuffy air, the faint whiff of rotten newspaper, body odour and urine. He took in the hard floor, which had exacerbated his various aches and pains overnight. Then he opened his eyes and saw Grant, lying on the mattress opposite, staring back at him. He looked a bit better.
在他醒來的那一刻，雷木斯一度忘記了自己身在何處。他感受到悶熱的空氣，隱約的腐爛報紙氣味、體味和尿味。他感覺到硬邦邦的地板，這讓他一夜之間的各種疼痛更加加劇。然後他睜開眼睛，看見對面的格蘭特躺在床墊上，盯著他。他看起來好了一點。

“Morning.” Grant mouthed,
「早安。」格蘭特張嘴說道，

“Morning,” Remus replied, moving against Sirius, who was still fast asleep, head back against the wall. He peeled himself away carefully and whispered to Grant, “Don’t worry, he sleeps like the dead. I’ll wake him up in a bit.”
「早安，」雷木斯回答，靠在仍然熟睡的小天狼星身上，小天狼星的頭靠在牆上。他小心地脫離開來，對格蘭特低聲說，「別擔心，他睡得像死了一樣。我會稍後叫醒他的。」

“I can’t remember much.” Grant whispered, lying on his side, head resting on a pillow which looked dirty and stained. “Sorry if I was a knob. I think I am a bit of a knob, these days.”
「我不太記得了。」格蘭特低聲說，側躺著，頭靠在看起來髒兮兮的枕頭上。「如果我當時很討厭，我很抱歉。我覺得我這些天有點像個混蛋。」

“You were fine,” Remus shook his head, “Just… sad, maybe.”
「你沒事，」雷木斯搖搖頭，「只是……可能有點悲傷。」

Grant looked stricken, so Remus moved to get up.
格蘭特看起來很痛苦，於是雷木斯站起來了。

“Loo?” He asked.
「廁所？」他問。

“Downstairs. I’ll show you.” Grant pulled himself up, gingerly, then looked amazed, “Blimey,” he said, patting his side, “Must’ve just been a bruise, after all. Knew I didn’t need no doctor.”
「在樓下。我帶你去。」格蘭特小心翼翼地爬起來，然後驚訝地說，「天啊，」他拍了拍自己的側面，「果然只是淤傷。我知道我不需要看醫生。」

Remus pursed his lips and followed Grant out. Downstairs was already alive with activity, despite the early hour. The house seemed to be a kind of commune, full of all kinds of different people. There was an outhouse in the back garden (more like a yard that had been turned into an allotment) and an outdoor shower, which Remus couldn’t imagine was much fun in the winter.
雷木斯抿了抿嘴唇，跟在格蘭特身後。樓下已經熱鬧非凡，儘管時間很早。這所房子似乎是一種公社，裡面充滿了各種各樣的人。後花園裡有個外屋（更像是一個被改造成菜地的院子），還有一個戶外淋浴，雷木斯無法想像在冬天用它會有多麼愉快。

Still, the people were friendly and all said hello to the two boys as they passed - which Remus remarked upon.
不過，人們都很友善，當兩個男孩經過時都向他們打招呼——這讓雷木斯注意到。

“Everyone seems nice?”
「每個人都很友善？」

“They’re all right,” Grant replied from inside the loo, “Only been ‘ere a few days. Leaving soon as I can.”
「還好，」格蘭特在廁所裡回答，「我只在這裡待了幾天。我會盡快離開。」

“For Brighton? You mentioned last night…”
「去布萊頓？你昨晚提到過……」

“Oh, did I? Yeah, that was the plan…” Grant came out of the outhouse, looking sheepish, “Maybe next month, though.”
「哦，我提到了嗎？對，那是計劃……不過，也許要到下個月。」

“What’s there? Friends?”
「那裡有什麼？朋友？」

Grant nodded,
格蘭特點點頭，

“Yeah - one of the nicer lads from the Mile End place. Got a cousin there too - the last Chapman who don’t hate me. She owns a pub, said she’d hire me if I could get my shit together and pay the train fare.” He sighed, heavily, washing his hands, then face in a bucket of water taken from a big green water butt standing by the back door. “S’posed to ‘prove myself’.”
「對——那裡有一個來自米爾恩德地方的比較好的人。我那裡還有一個表親——最後一個不恨我的查普曼。她有一家酒吧，說如果我能整理好自己的事，並支付火車票費用，她會雇用我。」他重重地嘆了口氣，洗手，然後在一個放在後門旁的大綠水桶裡洗臉。「說是要‘證明自己’。」

“That doesn’t seem very…” What did Remus want to say? Familial? Kind? Grant had clearly experienced very little of either.
「這看起來不太像……」雷木斯想說什麼？家庭？善良？顯然格蘭特幾乎沒有經歷過這些。

“Nah, she’s fair enough,” Grant replied, feeling in his pockets and coming up empty. Remus handed over his own tin of roll ups, and the lighter. Grant nodded appreciatively, and continued explaining as he lit up, “I’ve let ‘er down a few times before. Mostly if Grandad was involved - you know I can’t stick him.”
「不，她還算公平，」格蘭特回答，摸了摸口袋，結果什麼都沒有。雷木斯遞給他自己的捲煙罐和打火機。格蘭特感激地點點頭，點燃香煙繼續解釋，「我之前讓她失望過幾次。主要是如果祖父參與其中——你知道我受不了他。」

Remus nodded, trying to be understanding. Grant had a huge family - Irish Catholic, he’d said once - but relations between them was often fraught, particularly where his patriarchal grandfather was concerned.
雷木斯點點頭，試圖理解。格蘭特有一個龐大的家庭——他曾經說過是愛爾蘭天主教徒——但他們之間的關係往往緊張，尤其是與他那個權威的祖父有關。

“Don’t get me wrong,” Grant was saying, “I really was going, this time, I was… but it just turned out wrong again. A lot’s turned out wrong, to be honest.”
「別誤會我的意思，」格蘭特說，「這次我真的打算去的，我……但結果又變得不對。說實話，很多事情都變得不對。」

Remus wanted to hug him, but he looked so thin, so wiry and prickly, it made him afraid to.
雷木斯想擁抱他，但他看起來如此瘦弱、精瘦而刺手，讓他感到害怕。

“How much is it?” He asked, digging into his pockets, “I’ve got a bit of money, left by my dad, you can have the fare, I’ll take you to the station today.”
「多少錢？」他問，挖掘自己的口袋，「我有一點錢，是我爸爸留給我的，你可以用來買票，今天我帶你去車站。」

“Couldn’t do that,” Grant held up his hands.
「不能這樣做，」格蘭特舉起雙手。

“Not to keep, obviously,” Remus said quickly, “You’d owe me. Look, I’ve got one more year of school, then I’ll come and find you - and you’ll have been working in your cousin’s pub, right? So you can pay me back - how much? Tenner?”
「顯然不是讓你留下來，」雷木斯迅速說道，「你會欠我一筆錢。看看，我還有一年的學校生活，然後我會來找你——你會在你表親的酒吧工作對吧？所以你可以還我——多少？十鎊？」

“Four quid.” Grant sighed. “I had four quid last week too, but I… I lost it. I didn’t drink it, promise.”
「四鎊。」格蘭特嘆了口氣。「我上週也有四鎊，但我……我丟了。我沒有花掉，保證。」

“Four quid?! I can lend you that. That’s fine.”
「四鎊？！我可以借給你。沒問題。」

“Are you serious?!” Grant stared at him, blinking.
「你認真的嗎？！」格蘭特瞪大眼睛盯著他。

“Of course,” Remus nodded, frowning slightly, “Why not? You’d do the same for me.”
「當然，」雷木斯點點頭，微微皺眉，「為什麼不？你會對我這樣做的。」

“I…” Grant shook his head, then pressed the heel of his hand into one eye, as if overcome with emotion. “Thanks, Remus. You’re such a good mate.”
「我……」格蘭特搖搖頭，然後把手掌的跟部按在一隻眼睛上，彷彿情緒被打動了。「謝謝，雷木斯。你真是個好夥伴。」

“You’d do the same for me,” Remus repeated.
「你會對我這樣做的，」雷木斯重複道。

It occurred to him for the first time that he and Grant were actually the same age. Grant had always been so knowing, so streetwise and protective, that Remus had considered him older; more mature. But he was only seventeen, and life had been as cruel to Grant as it had to Remus. Perhaps even more cruel, because after all, Remus knew in his heart he would never be homeless; he could never be alone while the marauders were there. He needed to learn to stop putting people on pedestals; stop expecting so much of everybody.
他第一次意識到他和格蘭特其實是同齡的。格蘭特一直非常成熟，街頭智慧和保護欲強，讓雷木斯覺得他年紀更大；更成熟。但他才十七歲，生活對格蘭特的殘酷程度和對雷木斯的一樣。甚至可能更殘酷，因為畢竟，雷木斯在心底知道自己永遠不會無家可歸；只要有麻瓜四人組在，他就不會孤單。他需要學會停止把人擺在神壇上；停止對每個人期望過高。

He stepped forward then, and hugged the other boy, minding not to burn himself on the cigarette.
他隨後走上前，擁抱了另一個男孩，注意不要燙到香煙。

“When’d you get so tall, anyway?” Grant laughed, muffled under Remus’s arm.
「你什麼時候變這麼高的？」格蘭特在雷木斯的手臂下笑著說。

“Don’t,” Remus chuckled, pulling back, “Sirius teases me all the time.”
「別這麼說，」雷木斯笑著，退後，「小天狼星總是取笑我。」

“Sirius.” Grant shook his head in amazement, “ Sirius and Remus. Bloody hell. It is him? The posh lad what broke your heart?”
「小天狼星。」格蘭特驚訝地搖搖頭，「小天狼星和雷木斯。天啊。真的是他？那個破壞了你心的人？」

“Er… yeah. It’s ok now, though.”
「嗯……對。現在沒事了。」

“I ‘ope so, Remus mate.”
「我希望如此，雷木斯。」

 

There was time for Grant to pack his meagre possessions, and for Sirius and Remus to take him for breakfast at a small cafe in Victoria station.
格蘭特有時間打包他那微不足道的財物，然後小天狼星和雷木斯帶他去維多利亞車站的一家小咖啡館吃早餐。

“You’re going to make me fat,” he said to Remus, as he scoffed down his second bacon butty.
「你會讓我變胖的，」他對雷木斯說，邊吃下第二個培根三明治邊說。

“No chance,” Remus said, prodding him in the ribs.
「不可能，」雷木斯說，捅了捅他的肋骨。

Sirius had been quiet all morning - but then he never did function well on a poor night’s sleep. He looked only slightly rumpled, his hair a little less lustrous than usual, his eyes a bit foggy. Remus could tell that he was still fascinated by the sights and sounds of muggle London - only of course he couldn’t explain that to Grant.
小天狼星整個早晨都很安靜——但他在睡不好的一夜後總是不怎麼運作良好。他看起來有點凌亂，頭髮比平時稍微少了些光澤，眼睛有點模糊。雷木斯能看出他仍然對麻瓜倫敦的景象和聲音充滿著好奇——只不過他當然無法向格蘭特解釋這一點。

Grant regarded Sirius with a similar wariness. He apologised for his behaviour the night before, and tried to explain that they’d caught him on a ‘bad night’. He seemed meeker in front of Sirius, less cheeky - perhaps perceiving him as a social superior, and therefore mildly dangerous. Remus well remembered how alien Potter and Black had been to him, once upon a time.
格蘭特對小天狼星也顯得同樣的謹慎。他為前一晚的行為道歉，並試圖解釋他們遇到他時正值「糟糕的夜晚」。在小天狼星面前，他顯得更為溫順，不那麼傲慢——也許是把他看作社會上的上層，因而略顯危險。雷木斯清楚地記得，曾經波特和布萊克對他來說是多麼陌生。

“You two got ya own train to catch, eh?” Grant said, eyes flicking to Sirius, then Remus, then back again.
「你們兩個得趕自己的火車吧？」格蘭特說，目光一會兒看向小天狼星，一會兒看向雷木斯，然後又回來。

“Yeah, but we’ve got time.” Remus said. “Here, I want to give you this…” he handed Grant a scrap of paper which had the Potter’s address on it, “It’s where I’m living when I‘m not at school. Will you send me a letter when you’re settled? A postcard? Promise.”
「是的，但我們還有時間。」雷木斯說。「來，我想給你這個……」他遞給格蘭特一張寫有波特地址的紙條，「這是我不在學校時住的地方。你定居後能給我寫封信嗎？明信片也行？答應我。」

“Yeah, ok,” Grant nodded, tucking it away, “Warning you, my handwriting’s shit an’ I can’t spell for toffee.”
「好的，」格蘭特點點頭，把紙條收好，「警告你，我的字跡很差，拼寫也很爛。」

“I don’t care about that. I just want to know where you are, next time. Do you need stamps? I should have bought stamps…”
「我不在乎那些。我只是想知道你下次在哪裡。你需要郵票嗎？我應該買些郵票……」

“I can get stamps,” Grant touched his arm, “You’ve done enough. Honest.”
「我可以弄到郵票，」格蘭特摸了摸他的手臂，「你已經做得夠多了。說真的。」

They hugged again on the platform. Grant shook Sirius’s hand, which was weird, but polite of him.
他們在月台上再次擁抱。格蘭特握了握小天狼星的手，這有點奇怪，但他這樣做是禮貌的。

“I’ll come and visit, at Christmas maybe, or next summer,” Remus said.
「我會來看你的，可能在聖誕節，或者明年夏天，」雷木斯說。

“I bloody well believe you, too - can’t get rid of ya, can I?” Grant grinned. His first genuine smile so far - it made Remus feel somewhat easier. “Like magnets, you and me, eh? Always snap right back together.”
「我也真他媽相信你——我不能擺脫你，不是嗎？」格蘭特笑了。他迄今為止的第一次真心微笑，讓雷木斯感到稍微放鬆。「像磁鐵一樣，你我，對吧？總是會立刻再聚在一起。」

This hit Remus in such a way that he had to hug Grant again, until the other boy laughed and pushed him away, “All right, all right - I’ve got a train to catch, y’know…”
這話讓雷木斯感受到一種情感，他不得不再次擁抱格蘭特，直到對方笑了起來，把他推開，「好了，好了——我得趕火車了，你知道的……」

And of course, so did Remus and Sirius. As soon as Grant had disappeared through the train doors, they bolted towards the Gentlemen’s toilets to apparate to King’s Cross. Inside the cubicle Sirius finally spoke. He touched Remus’s arm, where Grant had only minutes before,
當然，雷木斯和小天狼星也是如此。格蘭特一旦消失在火車門後，他們就衝向男廁，準備用瞬間移動到國王十字車站。小天狼星在隔間裡終於開口了。他摸了摸雷木斯的手臂，正是格蘭特剛才觸碰的地方，

“You look exhausted. Let me do it, you can side-along.”
「你看起來很累。讓我來做，你可以跟著我。」

“Really?” Remus could have said that he was no more tired than Sirius, who had put up with just as much as he had - but that would have been a lie. He was too tired to argue, even.
「真的？」雷木斯本來可以說他並不比小天狼星更累，小天狼星承受的也一樣多——但那會是一個謊言。他甚至太累了，不想爭論。

“Really.” Sirius nodded, taking his arm.
「真的。」小天狼星點點頭，拉住他的手臂。

“Thank you for staying with me. Thank you for helping him.”
「謝謝你陪著我。謝謝你幫助他。」

“Don’t be silly.” Sirius gave him a small smile. “He obviously… he loves you.”
「別傻了。」小天狼星給了他一個小微笑。「他顯然……他愛你。」

“He--” But Remus had no chance to finish his thought; he was spinning through space, noise and colour blurring as he and Sirius left Victoria and landed - fairly gracefully - just outside King’s Cross.
「他——」但雷木斯沒有機會完成他的想法；他正在穿越空間，噪音和顏色模糊不清，當他和小天狼星離開維多利亞車站，優雅地降落在國王十字車站外。

They had no choice but to run for the platform - and found James hanging out of the train door waving frantically,
他們別無選擇，只能跑向月台——發現詹姆斯正急切地從火車門裡伸出身子揮手，

“Fucking hell! Where have you two been ?!”
「他媽的！你們倆去哪兒了？！」

“Language!” Lily’s face poked out if the next window along, “You’re Head Boy now, you should be setting an example!”
「說話注意點！」莉莉的臉從旁邊的窗戶伸出來，「你現在是學長了，你應該樹立一個榜樣！」

“I am setting an example, telling these wankers off!” James retorted as Sirius and Remus clambered onto the train just as the guard’s whistle blew.
「我在樹立榜樣，對這些混蛋們發火！」詹姆斯回嘴道，當雷木斯和小天狼星剛上車，警衛的哨音響起。

“Language!” Lily said again, “Honestly, James, you really need to start growing up this year, you’re of age, you need to start acting…”
「說話注意點！」莉莉再次說，「說真的，詹姆斯，你今年真的需要開始成熟了，你已經成年了，你需要開始行為得體……」

“Isn’t she brilliant?!” James beamed at Remus, who was now sitting on the floor of the carriage, catching his breath. Sirius was bent over, hands on his knees, looking shockingly un-Sirius; red in the face, hair everywhere. James regarded them both, folding his arms, gold Head Boy and Quidditch Captain badges glinting on his dark robes. “So where were you?”
「她不是很棒嗎？！」詹姆斯對雷木斯笑了，雷木斯現在坐在車廂的地板上，喘著氣。小天狼星彎著腰，雙手撐在膝蓋上，看起來完全不像小天狼星；臉紅紅的，頭髮亂七八糟。詹姆斯打量著他們倆，雙臂交叉，金色的學長和魁地奇隊長徽章在他的深色袍子上閃爍。「你們去哪了？」

“Told you. Gig.” Sirius huffed.
「告訴過你了。音樂會。」小天狼星喘氣道。

“Which band?”
「哪個樂隊？」

“You don’t know them. Muggle band.”
「你不認識他們。麻瓜樂隊。」

“Why didn’t you come back last night? Where did you sleep ?!”
「你們為什麼昨晚不回來？你們睡在哪裡？！」

Sirius flashed a nervous look at Remus, and Remus could see that he was on the verge of spilling everything. He stood up quickly,
小天狼星焦急地瞟了雷木斯一眼，雷木斯能看出他快要說漏了。他迅速站起來，

“We didn’t sleep. It went on all night. We had breakfast then came straight here.”
「我們沒有睡。整晚都在活動。我們吃了早餐，然後直接來這裡。」

Sirius stared at him in amazement before nodding along. James shook his head.
小天狼星驚訝地盯著他，然後點了點頭。詹姆斯搖了搖頭。

“Mental. And dangerous. Seriously, lads, don’t do that again.”
「瘋了。還很危險。說真的，夥計們，別再這樣做了。」

“Won’t.” Sirius murmured, looking at his feet.
「不會的。」小天狼星低聲說，看著自己的腳。

Lily appeared in the corridor, hands on her hips, looking beautiful and terrifying.
莉莉出現在走廊上，雙手插腰，看起來既美麗又可怕。

“Potter.” She said, “We’ve got to lead the meeting.”
「波特。」她說，「我們得去主持會議。」

“Right you are!” James grinned, forgetting all about his two out of breath friends, following the redhead away towards the prefect’s carriage. “See you later, boys!” He called, absent mindedly.
「正是！」詹姆斯笑著，忘了他那兩個氣喘吁吁的朋友，跟著紅頭髮的莉莉離開，朝著學監車廂走去。「待會見，伙計們！」他心不在焉地喊道。

“You’re a really good liar,” Sirius said to Remus. Maybe it was the lack of sleep, or the pain in his hip, but this statement rubbed Remus the wrong way.
「你真是個很好的謊言者，」小天狼星對雷木斯說。也許是因為缺乏睡眠，或者是臀部的疼痛，但這句話讓雷木斯不舒服。

“What’s that supposed to mean?!” He snapped.
「這話什麼意思？！」他斥責道。

“Nothing.” Sirius looked down again. “C’mon, let’s find Pete.”
「沒什麼。」小天狼星再次低下頭。「來吧，我們去找彼得。」

Peter was sitting with Mary, Marlene and Dorcas in the carriage Lily had just exited. He looked a bit outnumbered, as the girls were swapping tips for fingernail strengthening charms.
彼得和瑪麗、瑪琳、道卡斯一起坐在莉莉剛離開的車廂裡。他看起來有點被人數壓倒，因為那些女孩正在交換增強指甲的咒語技巧。

“We thought you’d miss the train!” Marlene said, as Remus and Sirius entered.
「我們以為你們會錯過火車！」瑪琳說，當雷木斯和小天狼星進來時。

“You know me, McKinnon,” Sirius gave his most charming grin, “Like to make an entrance.”
「你知道我，麥金農，」小天狼星展現出他最迷人的笑容，「喜歡出場。」

“And now you’re dragging poor Remus down with you,” Mary laughed, “Come and sit here, Lupin, I’ll protect you from that delinquent.” She budged up in her seat to make room by the window. Remus took the space gratefully.
「而且你現在還拖累了可憐的雷木斯，」瑪麗笑著說，「過來坐這裡，盧平，我會保護你免受那個惡棍的侵擾。」她挪了挪座位，讓出窗邊的位置。雷木斯感激地坐下了。

“Where were you?” Peter asked, “You left me alone with Lily and James. I might as well have been a ghost.”
「你們去哪了？」彼得問，「你們把我一個人留給莉莉和詹姆斯。我簡直像是幽靈。」

“Gig. Stayed out late. Didn’t sleep.” Sirius waved a hand, yawning. He sat opposite Remus, and folded his arms, leaning tiredly against the window.
「音樂會。待到很晚。沒睡。」小天狼星揮了揮手，打了個哈欠。他坐在雷木斯對面，雙臂交叉，疲倦地靠在窗戶上。

The train began to move, and Remus closed his eyes - because he was exhausted, but also because that way he didn’t have to answer any more questions about where he’d been. The girls began to speak more quietly, and he eventually drifted to sleep.
火車開始啟動，雷木斯閉上了眼睛——因為他很累，但也因為這樣他就不用再回答任何關於他去過哪裡的問題了。女孩們開始低聲交談，他最終漸漸入睡。

When he woke up, they were already in Scotland, the dark rolling hills whooshing past, a smattering of rain hitting the windows.
當他醒來時，他們已經在蘇格蘭，黑暗的滾滾山丘快速掠過，窗戶上有點點雨珠。

Sirius was curled up on the seat opposite him, completely hidden under everyone else's cloaks. Remus could hear him breathing evenly; fast asleep.
小天狼星蜷縮在他對面的座位上，完全隱藏在其他人的斗篷下。雷木斯能聽到他均勻的呼吸聲；熟睡中。

Mary was just sliding the door open as Remus stretched, waving at her sleepily. She smiled and waved back but looked serious. Marlene frowned,
瑪麗正推開門，雷木斯伸展身體，睡意朦朧地向她揮手。她微笑著回揮手，但神情嚴肅。瑪琳皺起了眉頭，

“What’s up?”
「怎麼了？」

“I just saw Lily,” Mary whispered, “Something happened in the prefect carriage,” she glanced over at Sirius, still just a lump underneath the cloaks, and lowered her voice even further so that Remus and Marlene had to lean in, “James and Regulus got into a fight. They’re both ok, but it got quite nasty, by the sounds of it… Regulus was saying some really crazy stuff, Lily was really shaken.”
「我剛看到莉莉，」瑪麗低聲說，「在學監車廂裡發生了點事，」她瞥了一眼仍然在斗篷下的動靜不明的小天狼星，聲音更低，以便雷木斯和瑪琳能夠靠近，「詹姆斯和雷古勒斯打了起來。他們都沒事，但聽起來變得相當激烈……雷古勒斯說了一些非常瘋狂的話，莉莉被嚇壞了。」

“He’s one of them,” Marlene whispered, looking anxious, “The Black family are you-know-who’s strongest supporters, everyone knows it.”
「他是其中之一，」瑪琳低聲說，顯得焦慮，「布萊克家族是你知道的那個人的最強支持者，每個人都知道。」

“Sh.” Remus said, quickly, “We don’t know what it was about. It could be anything.”
「安靜。」雷木斯迅速說，「我們不知道是關於什麼的。可能是任何事。」

The girls fell quiet after that, but exchanged concerned looks with each other and Remus could tell they thought he was being naive.
之後女孩們靜默了，但彼此之間交換著擔憂的眼神，雷木斯能看出她們覺得他過於天真。

He leaned back and looked out of the window for a while, listening to Sirius’s relaxed heartbeat and worrying about Grant and wishing more than anything that the worst was already behind them.
他靠著，望向窗外一會兒，聽著小天狼星放鬆的心跳，擔心著格蘭特，並希望最壞的情況已經過去。

 

Chapter 120: Seventh Year: Thunder 

Neither Remus, nor Peter - who had also been in the carriage - said anything to Sirius about Mary’s intel. Peter probably kept quiet because he wasn’t sure how valuable the information was. Remus kept quiet because he was a coward, and if there had to be bad news, he’d prefer that James delivered it.
雷木斯和彼得——彼得也在車廂裡——對小天狼星提到瑪麗的情報時什麼也沒說。彼得可能是因為不確定這些信息的價值才保持沉默。雷木斯保持沉默是因為他是個膽小鬼，如果有壞消息，他更希望由詹姆斯來傳達。

And sure enough, James appeared to meet them all on the train platform with a very red looking eye, and a rumpled school uniform.
果然，詹姆斯出現在火車站台上，眼睛紅得很，校服也皺皺巴巴的。

“What happened to you?” Sirius yawned, oblivious.
「你發生了什麼事？」小天狼星打了個哈欠，完全無視。

“Tell you later.” James murmured, before jogging over to join Lily in herding the first years in the right direction.
「等會告訴你。」詹姆斯低聲說，然後小跑過去，和莉莉一起把新生引導到正確的方向。

It was still raining lightly, and growing dark already - Remus was very glad not to be crossing the lake. Still, it was bittersweet, climbing into the horseless carriages one last time with Sirius, Mary and Marlene (Peter had decided to follow the honey and get in with Dorcas and her friends). As they pulled into the castle courtyard Remus looked up at the towering stone and wondered if this would be his final memory of arriving at Hogwarts. Perhaps they would all be back for a reunion party in ten years. That was a pleasant thought, though 1987 seemed completely impossible right then.
雨還在細細地下，天色已經變暗——雷木斯很高興不必再渡湖。然而，登上無馬車廂的最後一次，和小天狼星、瑪麗以及瑪琳一起，還是讓人感到有點甜蜜的苦澀（彼得決定跟隨蜜糖，和道卡斯及她的朋友們一起上了車）。當他們進入城堡庭院時，雷木斯仰望那高聳的石頭，想知道這是否會成為他抵達霍格華茲的最後記憶。也許十年後他們都會回來參加一次重聚派對。那是一個愉快的想法，雖然1987年當時看起來完全不可能。

Remus tried to pay close attention to the sorting ceremony, the nervous line of tiny first years, the battered old hat, McGonagall’s stern but caring countenance. He tried to imprint every moment in his memory - but it wasn’t easy; there were so many distractions.
雷木斯試著專心致志地觀察分院儀式，小小的新生們緊張的隊伍，那頂破舊的帽子，麥格教授嚴厲但關懷的神情。他試圖把每一刻都印在記憶中——但這並不容易；有太多分心的事物。

First, there was James’s eye, which he still had not explained. Then there was Regulus, who was conspicuously absent. Snape, glowering as always, his eyes never leaving the back of Lily Evans’ head. Christopher, who kept trying to catch Remus’s eye, and Sirius, who was completely unaware of everything else, and simply thrilled to be back at Hogwarts; his true home. Remus was trying to enjoy Sirius’s good mood without looking too much like he was staring. It was a real art.
首先是詹姆斯的眼睛，他至今仍未解釋。接著是雷古勒斯，他顯然缺席了。斯內普，像往常一樣陰沉，目光緊盯莉莉·艾文斯的背部。克里斯托弗，試圖引起雷木斯的注意，小天狼星則完全無視其他一切，單純地為回到霍格華茲感到興奮；那是他的真正家園。雷木斯試圖享受小天狼星的好心情，同時不讓自己看起來過於盯著他。這是一門真正的藝術。

Just as Dumbledore announced that dinner was served, the doors at the back of the hall flew open. All heads turned to see - except for Remus, who only needed to see the smile die on Sirius’s face to know who it was.
正當鄧布利多宣布晚餐已經準備好時，禮堂後面的門突然打開了。所有人都轉過頭去看——除了雷木斯，他只需要看到小天狼星臉上的笑容消失，就知道那是誰。

Regulus did not hurry to his seat, as Remus probably would have, embarrassed to draw attention. No, Regulus was a Black through and through, and walked with his usual regal bearing, slowly and with purpose, head held high. There was no evidence that James had done any damage, but Remus thought that Reg was looking even paler than usual, and dark around the eyes as if he had lost a lot of sleep lately. The sixth year Slytherins made a big show of making room for him, as if he was a guest of honour, rather than their school mate. Even Snape’s attention was momentarily diverted, as he leaned across to shake Regulus’s hand.
雷古勒斯並沒有像雷木斯可能會那樣匆忙找座位，因為他尷尬地引起注意。不，雷古勒斯徹底是個布萊克，他以一貫的威嚴步伐，慢慢而有目的地走著，昂首闊步。沒有證據表明詹姆斯造成了什麼傷害，但雷木斯覺得雷古勒斯看起來比平時更蒼白，眼睛周圍發黑，好像最近失眠了很多。第六年的斯萊特林們大肆展示出為他騰出位置的樣子，好像他是貴賓，而不是他們的同學。甚至斯內普的注意力也短暫地轉移了，向雷古勒斯伸出了手。

All of this took up only a few moments, but it left an indelible mark on the Gryffindor seventh years, as they all eyed Sirius warily.
這一切只花了幾分鐘，但對於格蘭芬多七年級的學生來說，留下了深刻的印記，他們都警惕地盯著小天狼星。

“Mate,” James said, very quietly, “I need to tell you something, later. In private.” He glanced up at Remus and Peter as he said this, so that they knew they were included in this.
「夥計，」詹姆斯低聲說，「我需要跟你說點事，稍後。私下裡。」他在說這話時瞥了一眼雷木斯和彼得，讓他們知道他們也被包括在內。

Sirius just nodded, and kept his head down for the rest of the meal, only picking at his food. Remus’s heart ached, but there was nothing he could do. His sense of separation was inadvertently exacerbated by Lily and James, who kept squeezing each other’s hands under the table. Remus didn’t know when he and Sirius would next have the chance to be alone.
小天狼星只是點了點頭，整個用餐過程中都低著頭，只是挑挑食物。雷木斯的心感到疼痛，但他無能為力。他的隔閡感在莉莉和詹姆斯無意中加劇了，他們在桌子下不斷握著對方的手。雷木斯不知道他和小天狼星下一次何時能有單獨的機會。

After dinner it was an almost unbearable wait for Lily and James to finish up with their new duties as Head Boy and Girl. Remus was nodding in his armchair, failing to focus on his Care of Magical Creatures NEWT text, eyelids growing heavier and heavier.
晚餐後，雷木斯幾乎無法忍受地等待莉莉和詹姆斯完成他們作為學長和學姐的新職責。雷木斯在扶手椅上打盹，無法集中注意力在他的神奇生物護理NEWt課本上，眼瞼越來越沉重。

“Psst, Moony,” James woke him, finally, with a gentle shake, “C’mon, we’re all heading up.”
「噓，穆尼，」詹姆斯最終輕輕搖醒他，「來吧，我們都要上樓了。」

Remus blinked, staring about himself in surprise - the common room was almost empty.
雷木斯眨了眨眼，驚訝地四處張望——公共休息室幾乎空蕩蕩的。

Upstairs in their bedroom, all of their trunks had arrived, their beds were made and pyjamas laid out. Rain was still battering the window panes, and Remus could smell a storm on its way - electricity and pressure making the air feel thick and too close.
樓上的臥室裡，他們所有的行李都已經到達，床鋪已經整理好了，睡衣也擺好了。雨仍在猛烈拍打窗戶，雷木斯能嗅到風暴即將來臨——電氣和壓力使空氣感覺黏稠而逼仄。

Sirius was pacing, and though a window was open the room stank of cigarettes from his chain smoking. He had showered at some point, and his hair was still damp at the ends, dripping onto the maroon t-shirt he wore to bed. Peter was just coming out of the bathroom, already in his pyjamas and smelling faintly of toothpaste.
小天狼星來回踱步，儘管窗戶開著，房間裡還是充滿了他連續吸煙後的煙味。他在某個時候洗了澡，頭髮末端仍然濕漉漉的，滴在他睡覺時穿的酒紅色T恤上。彼得剛從浴室出來，已經穿上睡衣，身上還有淡淡的牙膏味。

“You didn’t wake me up.” Remus said neutrally to Sirius. Sirius shrugged, carelessly, sitting down on his bed,
「你沒叫醒我。」雷木斯平靜地對小天狼星說。小天狼星隨意地耸了耸肩，坐在他的床上，

“You looked comfortable. Thought you could probably do with the rest.” He turned to James. “Well?”
「你看起來很舒服。覺得你可能需要休息一下。」他轉向詹姆斯。「那麼？」

“It’s about Regulus,” James said, not beating about the bush.
「是關於雷古勒斯的，」詹姆斯直言不諱地說。

“He give you that?” Sirius nodded at James’s now very prominent black eye.
「他給你的？」小天狼星指著詹姆斯現在明顯的黑眼圈。

“Yeah.” James nodded. He looked angry - a strange emotion on James. “Yeah, we had a few words in the prefect’s carriage…”
「是的。」詹姆斯點了點頭。他看起來很生氣——這是詹姆斯不常有的情緒。「是的，我們在督學車廂裡有幾句話...」

“Words.”
「話。」

“Yeah,” James’s jaw was tight, and the back of his neck was flushed red. He flexed his fists, “Seems like Regulus and some of his mates have a problem with Evans being Head Girl.”
「是的，」詹姆斯的下巴緊繃，脖子後面泛紅。他握緊了拳頭，「看來雷古勒斯和他的一些朋友對艾文斯擔任學姐有問題。」

“Oh no,” Peter said, realising what had happened, “James, he didn’t... “
「哦不，」彼得說，意識到發生了什麼事，「詹姆斯，他沒...」

“He was all talk.” James said.
「他只會嘴巴說說。」詹姆斯說。

“But you weren’t.” Sirius said. He was still sitting on the bed, his shoulders slumped.
「但你不是。」小天狼星說。他仍然坐在床上，肩膀垂下來。

“Prongs!” Remus sighed, impatiently, “You didn’t attack him first?! You know that’s exactly what that lot want from our side. You should just have ignored him.”
「詹姆斯！」雷木斯不耐煩地嘆息，「你沒有先攻擊他嗎？！你知道那群人正是想要我們這邊這樣做的。你應該直接忽略他。」

“He didn’t make it very easy.” James snapped, still wound up. “Anyway, don’t bother, I’ve had all this from Lily.”
「他不容易讓人忽視。」詹姆斯咬牙切齒地說，仍然很激動。「無論如何，別再費心了，莉莉已經告訴我一切。」

Remus wondered what she had to say - he couldn’t imagine that she would have taken very kindly to James playing the white knight. But then, Mary had said she’d been very shaken. “I didn’t hurt him, anyway,” James carried on. He had begun to pace the room, now that Sirius had stopped. “Just wanted to shut him up - I was going to use silencio, or maybe scourgify his mouth, you know - but the little weasel dodged it and tried to get me back, so I used jelly-legs. That’s when Mulciber swung for me, and Evans petrified all three of us. Just for a few minutes. Still, I got Regulus, so he had to go to the hospital wing and it all got written up.”
雷木斯想知道她說了什麼——他無法想像她會對詹姆斯充當白衣騎士的行為有多友善。但瑪麗說她感到非常震驚。「反正我沒有傷到他，」詹姆斯繼續說。他開始在房間裡來回踱步，因為小天狼星已經停止了。「只是想讓他閉嘴——我本來打算用靜音咒，或者也許是清潔咒，你知道的——但那隻小鼬鼠躲開了，試圖報復我，所以我用了腿麻痺咒。然後穆爾基伯揮向我，艾文斯將我們三個都石化了。只是幾分鐘。不過，我抓到了雷古勒斯，他不得不去醫務室，然後一切都被寫下來了。」

“Are you in trouble?” Peter asked, chewing his fingernails.
「你有麻煩嗎？」彼得問，咬著指甲。

“Nah,” James waved a hand, “Loads of witnesses said Reg was asking for it, and in the end it was Gryffindor vs. Slytherin so McGonagall and Slughorn agreed to give us another chance to ‘be civil’.” He pulled a face at this.
「沒事，」詹姆斯揮了揮手，「很多目擊者說雷古勒斯自找的，最後是格蘭芬多對斯萊特林，所以麥格教授和斯拉赫霍恩同意給我們一次‘文明對待’的機會。」他對此做了個鬼臉。

“But Reg is ok?” Sirius asked, quietly.
「但雷古勒斯沒事吧？」小天狼星輕聲問。

“Yeah, fine.” James nodded. He stopped moving and scratched his head, awkwardly, “There’s something else, though…”
「嗯，沒事。」詹姆斯點頭。他停下來，尷尬地抓了抓頭，「不過，還有其他事...」

Sirius looked up. His arms were folded across his body, but not in a defiant way - more as if to protect himself.
小天狼星抬頭看著。他的雙臂抱在胸前，但不是挑釁的姿態——更像是保護自己。

“What?”
「什麼？」

“Regulus, when Lily petrified him he fell, and we had to lift him up onto a seat. He’d rolled his sleeves up to duel, and when I was moving him, I saw… I saw… on his arm…”
「雷古勒斯，當莉莉石化他時，他摔倒了，我們不得不把他抬到座位上。他捲起了袖子準備打鬥，當我在搬動他時，我看到...我看到...在他的手臂上...」

“Prongs?” Sirius was staring at his friend with such a burning in his eyes that his pupils were twin flames - he looked desperate, as if willing James not to tell him.
「詹姆斯？」小天狼星用燒灼的目光盯著他的朋友，他的瞳孔如雙火焰般熾熱——他看起來很絕望，好像在希望詹姆斯不要告訴他。

“He’s got the mark.”
「他有那個印記。」

Peter made a noise, and sat down hard on his bed. Remus bit his lip, and stayed still, because he couldn’t think of anything else to do that wouldn’t look suspicious.
彼得發出一聲噪音，重重地坐在他的床上。雷木斯咬著嘴唇，靜靜地待著，因為他想不到其他不會顯得可疑的事情。

Sirius swallowed - Remus could see his adam’s apple bob - then looked down, then back up at James. Now he looked defiant. He gave another shrug, which was probably meant to be casual, except he was still hugging himself, so it just looked petulant. He tossed his hair,
小天狼星吞了吞口水——雷木斯可以看到他的喉結上下擺動——然後低下頭，再抬頭看詹姆斯。現在他看起來很挑釁。他又耸了耸肩，這大概是想表現得隨意，只是他還是擁抱著自己，所以看起來更像是悶悶不樂。他甩了甩頭髮，

“Well then.” He said, “S’pose we know how my family spent their summer, then. Fine. That’s fine. He’s picked his side. I’ve picked mine.” He nodded, as if agreeing with himself. “Fine.” He repeated.
「那麼。」他說，「想必我們知道我家人怎麼度過他們的暑假了。好吧。這沒問題。他選擇了自己的立場。我也選擇了我的。」他點了點頭，好像在自我認同。「好吧。」他重複道。

“Padfoot,” James reached out to his friend, “I’m angry with Reg, ok? I’m not… it’s nothing to do with you, everybody knows you’re not one of them.”
「天狼星，」詹姆斯伸出手去摸他的朋友，「我對雷古勒斯很生氣，好嗎？我不是...這跟你無關，每個人都知道你不是他們中的一員。」

“I know.” Sirius said, almost violently. “It’s fine.” He squeezed his hands tighter over his arms and Remus felt dizzy with the urge to run over and wrap his own arms around him. “Is Evans ok?”
「我知道。」小天狼星幾乎是暴力地說。「沒事。」他更緊地擠壓著雙臂，雷木斯感到一陣頭暈，急切地想跑過去把他抱住。「艾文斯沒事吧？」

“Yeah, she’s fine.” James said, “I mean, I think she was hurt, but… well, she’s tougher than me. Cooler under pressure.”
「嗯，她沒事。」詹姆斯說，「我是說，我覺得她受了傷，但...她比我更堅強。面對壓力時更冷靜。」

“Want me to have a word? With Reg, I mean?”
「你要我去和雷古勒斯談談嗎？」

“I’d leave it, mate,” James shook his head. “McGonagall and Slughorn know everything now, you’ll only make it worse.”
「我會留給你的，夥伴，」詹姆斯搖了搖頭。「麥格教授和斯拉赫霍恩現在知道一切，你只會讓事情變得更糟。」

“Everything?” Sirius looked up again. The rims of his eyes were red - but that might just be tiredness.
「一切？」小天狼星再度抬頭。眼睛的邊緣紅紅的——但這可能只是疲倦。

“Not everything,” James admitted, “Not about the mark, I wanted to leave that up to you…”
「不是一切，」詹姆斯承認，「不是關於那個印記的，我想把這留給你...」

“...Ok.” Sirius looked down again. They were all quiet for a long time, before James tried again, heroically.
「...好吧。」小天狼星再次低下頭。他們靜靜地待了很久，直到詹姆斯再次英勇地開口。

“Do you want to talk about it?”
「你想談談嗎？」

“No.” Sirius replied. “I just want to go to bed.”
「不。」小天狼星回答。「我只想去睡覺。」

“Yeah, good idea.” James said, running his fingers through his hair.
「嗯，好主意。」詹姆斯說，撫摸著頭髮。

He was doing the usual James-thing - taking charge, assessing and managing the Sirius-thing - but the wind was obviously out of his sails. He wasn’t sure what to do. Remus wished he could tell him, telepathically; he knew exactly the right thing. But it was a bad idea. No need to add his own nonsense to the pile. He would simply have to wait.
他在做詹姆斯一貫的事情——掌控局面，評估和處理小天狼星的問題——但顯然他已經無法再從中獲得力量。他不知道該怎麼做。雷木斯希望能用心電感應告訴他，他知道正確的做法。但這是個糟糕的主意。沒有必要在這堆亂象中再增加自己的胡言亂語。他只能靜靜等待。

They all got ready for bed quietly, unpacking a few things, reclaiming their space on the bathroom counter, settling back into the comfortable and familiar room in which they had shared an entire childhood. Remus took a quick shower, to wash London off him, then brushed his teeth and dressed for bed.
他們靜靜地準備上床，打開了一些東西，重新佔據了浴室櫃檯上的空間，回到那個他們共度整個童年的舒適而熟悉的房間。雷木斯快速地洗了個澡，洗去倫敦的氣息，然後刷牙，換上睡衣。

When he opened the door again, he found the curtains drawn around all of the beds except his own. Light snoring was coming from Peter’s, but James and Sirius were still awake. If Remus concentrated very hard, he could even sense how they were lying (James on his back, tossing his lucky golden snitch up and down, Sirius curled up on his side), and how relaxed they were (not at all). That felt like an invasion of privacy, though, so he just tried to creep as quietly as possible to his own four-poster, looking forward to a proper rest at last.
當他再次打開門時，發現除了自己的床外，所有的床都拉上了簾子。彼得的床傳來輕微的打鼾聲，但詹姆斯和小天狼星仍然醒著。如果雷木斯集中精力，他甚至能感覺到他們的姿勢（詹姆斯仰臥，將他的幸運金色飛賊上下擲動，小天狼星側身蜷縮著），以及他們的放鬆程度（完全沒有）。不過，這感覺像是對隱私的侵擾，所以他只是盡量輕手輕腳地走向自己的四柱床，期待著最後能有一個真正的好好休息。

No such luck.
但沒這麼幸運。

“Remus.” Sirius’s head popped out from behind his curtains. Remus turned his head,
「雷木斯。」小天狼星的頭從窗簾後面冒了出來。雷木斯轉過頭來，

“Sirius.” He whispered back.
「小天狼星。」他低聲回答。

Sirius pulled back the curtain and - after a quick glance at the other beds - Remus climbed in as neatly as he could. Inside it was pitch dark, but he could still see Sirius’s warm outline, kneeling before him. He twitched his wand.
小天狼星拉開了簾子——在快速掃了一眼其他床鋪後，雷木斯儘量整齊地爬了進來。裡面一片漆黑，但他仍然能看到小天狼星溫暖的輪廓，跪在他面前。他輕輕揮動了魔杖。

“ Sonoro Quiescis .”
「靜音咒。」

“James isn’t asleep yet,” Remus cautioned, “Are you sure you want me--”
「詹姆斯還沒睡，」雷木斯提醒道，「你確定你要我——」

“Yes,” Sirius replied, “Please stay, just for a little bit.” He reached out and grasped Remus’s hand, squeezing it. Remus relented and finally put his arms around Sirius, pulling him closer. It was an immense relief.
「是的，」小天狼星回答，「請留下來，只一會兒。」他伸出手抓住雷木斯的手，緊緊握住。雷木斯讓步了，終於把手臂圍繞在小天狼星身上，把他拉得更近。這是一種巨大的安慰。

“I’m so sorry about Reg.”
「我對雷古勒斯感到非常抱歉。」

“He’s not even of age!”
「他還不到成年！」

“I know.”
「我知道。」

They pulled apart, and sat cross legged, facing each other. Sirius’s head was bowed, his hair covering his face. He probably remembered how well Remus could see in the dark.
他們分開了，盤腿坐下，面對面。小天狼星低下頭，頭髮遮住了他的臉。他可能記得雷木斯在黑暗中看得多麼清楚。

“I can’t believe… I know it’s stupid, I should have known all along that he would, but… I dunno, I suppose I just hoped he’d…”
「我不敢相信……我知道這很傻，我應該早就知道他會這樣，但……我不知道，我想我只是希望他會……」

“It’s not stupid.” Remus said. “And we don’t know he joined willingly. Remember what they did to you, when they wanted you to join him.”
「這不傻。」雷木斯說。「而且我們不知道他是否是自願加入的。記得他們對你做了什麼，當他們想讓你加入他們時。」

Sirius flinched, but didn’t move away.
小天狼星畏縮了一下，但沒有退開。

“Yeah.” He murmured. “I doubt it got that far with Reg. He was always… he always wanted it more than me. The whole circus; our parent’s approval, the respect you get from purebloods just for being a Black. We like to be popular, and powerful. It only makes sense. That’s why we’re all Slytherins.”
「是的。」他喃喃道。「我懷疑雷古勒斯會那麼遠。他總是……他總是比我更渴望這些。整個鬧劇；我們父母的認可，純血家族對黑家族的尊敬。我們喜歡受歡迎和強大。這也很合情合理。這就是為什麼我們都是斯萊特林。」

“You’re not a Slytherin.”
「你不是斯萊特林。」

“No, I’m not.” Sirius exhaled, shakily, “I used to think…”
「不，我不是。」小天狼星顫抖著吐出一口氣，「我曾經認為……」

“What?”
「什麼？」

“I used to think… maybe I didn’t get sorted into Gryffindor because I’m brave, or chivalrous, like James is. Maybe I just wasn’t welcome in Slytherin because I haven’t got the ambition.”
「我曾經認為……也許我沒有被分到格蘭芬多是因為我勇敢，或者像詹姆斯那樣有騎士精神。也許我在斯萊特林不受歡迎是因為我沒有雄心。」

“Ambition?!” Remus stared at him, “Sirius, what Reg is doing, it isn’t… it’s not anything to be proud of. It’s cowardly; he’s doing exactly what he’s been raised to do, without thinking, without questioning .”
「雄心？！」雷木斯盯著他，「小天狼星，雷古勒斯在做的事，它不是……這不是值得驕傲的事。這是懦弱的；他在做的正是他被教導去做的，沒有思考，沒有質疑。」

“Yeah, but…”
「是的，但……」

“And you’re the bravest person I know.”
「而且你是我認識的最勇敢的人。」

“Moony…”
「月亮狼……」

“Really.” Remus said this with such seriousness that it stopped Sirius in his tracks.
「真的。」雷木斯以如此認真的語氣說道，讓小天狼星停下了腳步。

“Thanks.” Sirius smiled. He reached forward again, plucking the fabric of Remus’s pyjama bottoms and sniffing slightly. “I thought that keeping quiet about you and me would be the hardest thing about this year,” he said, “Forgot about the stupid war.”
「謝謝。」小天狼星微笑著。他再次伸手，撫摸雷木斯睡衣褲的布料，輕輕嗅了一下。「我以為保密我們之間的事是今年最難的事情，」他說，「忘記了那場愚蠢的戰爭。」

“Yeah.” Remus wasn’t sure how to respond. He wished he could forget about the war too. Sirius looked up at him, sensing his unease,
「嗯。」雷木斯不確定如何回答。他也希望能忘記戰爭。小天狼星看著他，感受到他的不安，

“It’s still hard.” He said, “Keeping this quiet,” his fingers kept playing with the cuffs of Remus’s trouser leg. “I feel like we’re so far apart, when the others are around.”
「這仍然很難。」他說，「保守這個秘密，」他的手指不斷玩弄著雷木斯褲腿的褲口。「當其他人圍繞時，我覺得我們如此遙遠。」

“We’re pretty close right now,” Remus offered, hoping to cheer him up a bit. It worked. Sirius took this as an invitation and finally met his eye, grinning. He leaned over and as their lips met Remus forced himself to forget about everything else, just for a little bit.
「我們現在很親近，」雷木斯說，希望能讓他高興些。這有效。小天狼星把這當作邀請，終於對上了他的眼睛，露出了笑容。他靠過來，他們的嘴唇接觸時，雷木斯強迫自己暫時忘掉其他一切。

Afterwards, they found themselves crawling under the covers for warmth, sleepy and affectionate.
之後，他們在被窩下蜷縮著取暖，困倦而充滿愛意。

“I shouldn’t get too comfortable,” Remus yawned, “I’d better go back to my bed.”
「我不應該太舒服，」雷木斯打了個哈欠，「我最好回到我的床上。」

“Not yet,” Sirius whispered, shyly.
「還不行，」小天狼星害羞地低聲說。

“Ok.” His eyes were very heavy, though. He was in real danger of falling asleep.
「好吧。」他的眼睛非常沉重。他真的有可能會睡著。

“Remus?”
「雷木斯？」

“Mm.”
「嗯。」

“Tell me a secret.” Sirius’s fingers curled around his.
「告訴我一個秘密。」小天狼星的手指纏繞在他的手上。

“Um. I dunno.”
「嗯。我不知道。」

“Go on. Something good. Happy.”
「說吧。什麼好的事。開心的事。」

“Er…” Perhaps now was the right time. He didn’t like to bring up the Black family, but after all, it wasn’t about Regulus or Walpurga. “I could tell you about something I did in my second year, if you won’t get angry…”
「呃……也許現在是時候了。他不喜歡提到黑家族，但畢竟，這不是關於雷古勒斯或沃爾普爾加的。「我可以告訴你我第二年做的事情，如果你不會生氣……」

“What did you do?”
「你做了什麼？」

“Promise you won’t get angry. It’s a bit… well, remember I was thirteen, and I only wanted to help.”
「答應我你不會生氣。這有點……好吧，記得我當時才十三歲，我只是想幫忙。」

“Merlin, Moony, just tell me!”
「梅林，月亮狼，快告訴我！」

“Narcissa,” he said, “I um… I gave her the idea to use the unbreakable vow. You know, to get out of the engagement.”
「娜迦希莎，」他說，「我呃……我給了她使用不破誓言的主意。你知道，就是為了擺脫訂婚。」

The engagement, not your engagement, because that was still too painful.
訂婚，不是你的訂婚，因為那仍然太痛苦了。

Sirius was quiet. Remus bit his lip, and turned his head on the pillow to get a look at Sirius’s face. “I’m really sorry for interfering… But you gave me that reading spell, and you were so… I just thought you were so amazing and clever and brave, I wanted to do something to help you for once.”
小天狼星安靜了。雷木斯咬了咬嘴唇，轉過頭來看小天狼星的臉。「我真的很抱歉插手……但你給了我那個閱讀咒語，你那麼……我只是覺得你真的很棒、聰明和勇敢，我想做些什麼來幫助你一次。」

“But you didn’t want to tell me about it?”
「但你不想告訴我這件事？」

“I, er… no, I didn’t. At first I didn’t want to boast about it. Then so much time had passed, it just didn’t seem worth it.”
「我，呃……不，我不想。一開始我不想吹噓這件事。後來時間過得太久，似乎不值得。」

“Moony!” Sirius exhaled again - exasperated this time. “Honestly, you and your secrets!”
「月亮狼！」小天狼星再次吐出一口氣——這次是厭煩的。「說實話，你和你的秘密！」

“I’m sorry!”
「對不起！」

“Don’t be sorry,” Sirius chuckled, yawning again and shifting slightly to get comfortable, “I s’pose I did ask. And… that’s bloody impressive. I couldn’t have come up with that, at thirteen.”
「別道歉，」小天狼星笑著說，再次打了個哈欠，稍微調整了一下以便舒適，「我想我確實問過。那……真是太厲害了。我在十三歲時可想不出這個。」

“Well, you didn’t.” Remus smirked.
「嗯，你沒想出來。」雷木斯露出一抹微笑。

“So you actually went and talked to my cousin?”
「所以你真的去和我的表妹談過？」

“Yeah. She was terrifying.”
「是的。她非常可怕。」

“Still is.” Sirius snorted. “They all bloody are.”
「還是這樣。」小天狼星哼了一聲。「她們全都是。」

“Don’t think about it now,” Remus chastised him, “Or I’ll have to cheer you up again, and I can’t think of any more secrets tonight.”
「現在別想這些，」雷木斯責備他，「否則我得再次讓你高興起來，我今晚想不出更多的秘密了。」

“There are other ways…” Sirius replied, slyly. Remus laughed, hoping the silencing spell was still secure.
「還有其他方式……」小天狼星狡黠地回答。雷木斯笑了，希望靜音咒語還有效。

“Harlot.”
「蕩婦。」

Chapter 121~124Chapter Summary

121. Seventh Year: Quill Shopping (2017-12-11)
122. Seventh Year: The Mastermind (2017-12-16)
123. Seventh Year: Darkness Falls (2017-12-21)
124. Seventh Year: Christmas Part 1 (2018-01-02)
125. Seventh Year: Christmas Part 2 (2018-01-04)

Chapter 121: Seventh Year: Quill Shopping 

Friday 9th September 1977

“Seven years. Seven years at this school. And I haven’t learnt anything.” Remus said, as he frantically looked for the right passage in his History books.
「七年了。七年在這所學校。我什麼都沒學到。」雷木斯說著，慌忙尋找歷史書中的正確段落。

There were twelve of them open, currently, and he couldn’t remember which had the best counter argument for the 1382 Pixie Relocation Act. Seven of the books lay open on the desk in front of him, taking up almost all of the space. Five more hovered in mid air, at eye level so that he could check for references as he went.
現在有十二本書攤開著，他無法記住哪一本書對1382年精靈遷徙法案有最佳的反駁。七本書在他面前的桌子上攤開，佔據了幾乎所有的空間。另五本書則懸在空中，與眼睛平行，以便他在翻閱時能檢查參考資料。

“If you haven’t learnt anything, then what chance have the rest of us got?” Christopher smiled peacefully from his spot on the floor. He was sitting cross-legged, books on the carpet in front of him.
「如果你什麼都沒學到，那我們其他人還有什麼機會呢？」克里斯多福在地板上的位置上和平地笑著。他盤腿坐著，面前的地毯上擺著書本。

“I haven’t learnt anything useful.” Remus replied, impatiently, still searching.
「我沒有學到任何有用的東西。」雷木斯不耐煩地回答，仍在搜尋。

“How are we defining useful?”
「我們怎麼定義有用？」

“Anything that will help me pass my NEWTs.”
「任何能幫我通過新生考試的東西。」

“Oh, because you really buggered up your OWLs…” Christopher tutted sarcastically.
「哦，因為你真的搞砸了你的魔法史高級考試……」克里斯多福諷刺地嘆息道。

“NEWTs are completely different.” Remus countered, finally locating the passage he needed, now losing his quill. “Nastily exhausting…” He found his quill (behind his ear, embarrassingly enough), but now… “Shit.”
「新生考試完全不同。」雷木斯反駁道，最終找到了他需要的段落，卻發現丟失了他的羽毛筆。「非常累人……」他找到了他的羽毛筆（尷尬地在耳後），但現在……「該死。」

“What?” Christopher looked up.
「怎麼了？」克里斯多福抬起頭來。

“Lost my inkwell…”
「丟了我的墨水瓶……」

“You ought to get one of those self-inking quills. We can look in Hogsmeade, next weekend if you fancy.”
「你應該買一支自動上墨的羽毛筆。我們可以在霍格斯密去看看，下個週末如果你願意的話。」

“Yeah, why not…” Remus continued lifting books.
「嗯，為什麼不呢……」雷木斯繼續搬起書本。

“Here, I’ve got a pencil if it’s just note taking…” Christopher crawled underneath the desk now to find his book bag. Remus felt a bit guilty then, for taking up all the space.
「這裡，我有一支鉛筆如果只是做筆記……」克里斯多福現在爬到桌子下面去找他的書包。雷木斯感到有點內疚，因為占用了所有空間。

“Sorry.” He said, stepping back from the madness for a moment, “It’s fine. It’ll all be fine once we get the study group up and running again…”
「對不起。」他說，暫時從混亂中退後一步，「沒關係。一切都會好起來的，一旦我們重新開始學習小組……」

“Talking to yourself, Moony?” James and Sirius appeared in quidditch robes (Sirius was still officially off the team, but nothing was stopping him from using the pitch on off days, and at least it kept him distracted.)
「自言自語，月亮狼？」詹姆斯和小天狼星穿著魁地奇袍子出現（小天狼星仍然官方上不在隊伍中，但沒有什麼能阻止他在休息日使用場地，至少這讓他保持了分心。）

“Merlin’s wrinkly ballsack.” Sirius said, staring at Remus’s desk. “You can’t have this much homework after the first week?!”
「梅林的皺巴巴的蛋蛋。」小天狼星說著，盯著雷木斯的書桌。「第一週後你怎麼會有這麼多作業？！」

“I’m reading around my subject.” Remus replied, irritable again.
「我正在閱讀相關主題。」雷木斯再次不耐煩地回答。

“Here you are, Remus,” Christopher reappeared from under the table, brandishing a pencil.
「這裡，雷木斯，」克里斯多福從桌子下重新出現，揮舞著一支鉛筆。

“Cheers!” Remus took it and began to scribble away onto his parchment.
「謝謝！」雷木斯拿過鉛筆，開始在羊皮紙上寫字。

“Oh, hello Black,” Christopher nodded politely, ducking his head.
「哦，你好，布萊克，」克里斯多福禮貌地點了點頭，低下了頭。

Remus glanced up, mid-scribble. Sirius was looking at Christopher with a bored kind of disdain.
雷木斯抬起頭來，正寫字的時候。小天狼星以一種無聊的蔑視看著克里斯多福。

“Hello.” He nodded. He looked at Remus, “Study group, is it?”
「你好。」他點了點頭。他看著雷木斯，「學習小組嗎？」

“No, just ordinary studying today,” Remus explained. “But I was just saying we ought to set up a meeting soon - if people still want to do it.”
「不，今天只是普通學習，」雷木斯解釋道。「但我剛才在說我們應該儘快安排一次會議——如果大家仍然想做的話。」

“Of course they will!” Christopher said, eagerly, “You got half of us through our OWLs last year.”
「當然了！」克里斯多福熱切地說，「你讓我們一半的人通過了去年的魔法史高級考試。」

“Yeah,” Sirius said, out of the blue. He looked thoughtful, which was dangerous. “Yeah, I might join this year. What’dyou think, Prongs?”
「是的，」小天狼星突然說。他看起來很深思，這很危險。「是的，我可能會加入。今年怎麼樣，角？」

Jamus looked up from the sofa, where he was polishing his broom.
詹姆斯從沙發上抬起頭來，當時他正在擦拭他的掃帚。

“Mate, I’m busy enough as it is! --Sorry, Remus.”
「夥計，我已經很忙了！——對不起，雷木斯。」

Remus shrugged. He looked at Sirius,
雷木斯聳聳肩。他看著小天狼星，

“You’d hate being in a study group.”
「你會討厭參加學習小組。」

“Well I’ll never know unless I try, will I? And you’re always saying it’s such an important year.”
「我不試怎麼知道呢？而且你總是說這是一個非常重要的年級。」

“Mm, I’ve been saying that for the past three years, actually…”
「嗯，實際上我已經說了三年了……」

“And it’s finally sunk in!” Sirius grinned. That Sirius Black grin. Even with everything between them now, it was completely disarming. “Besides,” Sirius continued, looking at Christopher now, “I might be able to impart some of my wisdom.”
「而且終於明白了！」小天狼星笑了。那個小天狼星的笑容。即使現在他們之間有了一切，它仍然完全能讓人放鬆。「而且，」小天狼星繼續說，看向克里斯多福，「我可能能傳授一些我的智慧。」

Remus didn’t argue it any further. He’d learnt his lesson - you couldn’t tell Sirius anything; just had to let him work it out for himself. And yes, he probably wanted to join the study group because Christopher was in it. But after all; Sirius had made the choice to keep the relationship quiet; Sirius was choosing to pretend that he really did want to do homework. Remus would just go along with it.
雷木斯沒有進一步爭辯。他已經學到教訓——你不能告訴小天狼星任何事情；只能讓他自己弄明白。而且，是的，他可能想加入學習小組是因為克里斯多福也在其中。但畢竟，小天狼星選擇了保持這段關係的秘密；小天狼星選擇假裝他真的想做作業。雷木斯就隨他去吧。

In the meantime, Remus felt as though he was limping through the first half of the term. He had not been so overwhelmed by his curriculum since his first year. Everything seemed ten times more involved than it had been the year before, and the essay requirements were at least ten inches longer. He felt suddenly very guilty about spending the entire summer relaxing and pleasing himself, when all the while time had been ticking away.
與此同時，雷木斯覺得自己像是拖著傷腿度過學期的前半段。他自從第一年以來，就沒有如此被課程壓倒過。一切似乎比去年更加複雜，並且論文要求至少長了十英寸。他突然感到非常內疚，因為整個夏天都在放鬆和取悅自己，而時間卻在一刻不停地流逝。

Even having dropped Potions, Astronomy and Herbology, there was still Arithmancy, History, Charms, Transfiguration, Defence Against the Dark Arts and Care of Magical Creatures; all of which seemed to have reached new heights of complexity as the final year got into full swing. Not to mention the extra lessons he was taking with Madam Pomfrey.
即使已經放棄了魔藥學、天文學和草藥學，仍然有算術學、歷史、魔咒學、變形學、黑魔法防禦術和魔法生物護理；所有這些似乎在最後一年全面開展時達到了新的複雜程度。更不用說他還和彭西夫人一起上了額外的課。

Not for the first time, Remus was extremely glad he was no longer a prefect, as he found himself spending almost all of his time squirrelled away in the bowels of the library, squinting over ancient texts with dust in his hair. He stayed through his free lessons, half of his lunch break, and more often than not was still there until Madam Pince chased him out.
雷木斯第一次感到非常高興他不再是學監，因為他發現自己幾乎將所有的時間都藏在圖書館的深處，瞇著眼睛看著髮間沾滿灰塵的古老文本。他在空閒課程期間待在那裡，午餐時間的一半，往往還會待到彭斯夫人把他趕出來。

In the end, he was thrilled to meet up with his study group again, just to have a bit of human company.
最後，他很高興能再次和他的學習小組見面，僅僅是為了有一點人類的陪伴。

“There you are!” Christopher met him outside the Charms classroom after lessons on a Thursday. Professor Flitwick had been kind enough to hand over his classroom for another year.
「你在這裡！」克里斯多福在星期四的課後在魅力課教室外遇見了他。弗利維克教授非常好心地把他的教室交給了他們一年。

(“I’ve no doubt you’ll have a classroom of your own, one day, young Lupin!” the tiny teacher had squeaked cheerily. Remus blushed and did not comment. One day his secret would be out; everyone would know why he was not fit to teach, or even be in a school at all, and then what?)
（「我毫不懷疑你會有一個屬於自己的教室，年輕的雷木斯！」這位矮小的老師愉快地尖叫道。雷木斯臉紅了，沒有評論。總有一天他的秘密會曝光；每個人都會知道他為什麼不適合教學，甚至不適合在學校裡，那麼怎麼辦呢？）

“Here I am,” Remus replied to Chris with a smile, “Were you looking for me?”
「我在這裡，」雷木斯對克里斯多福笑著回答，「你在找我嗎？」

“Not particularly, just haven’t seen much of you for the past week. Not even in the common room.”
「不特別，只是過去一周沒怎麼見到你。甚至在公共休息室也沒見到。」

“I’ve been there reading for an hour a night,” Remus said, “...but only once the library is closed.” And before Sirius came down yawning at one o’clock telling him to go to bed.
「我每晚都在那裡讀書一小時，」雷木斯說，「……但僅僅是在圖書館關閉之後。」以及在小天狼星在凌晨一點打哈欠來告訴他該上床睡覺之前。

“Admirable dedication,” Christopher nodded as they entered the room and began rearranging it to their liking. “But don’t go too hard, ok? Try to enjoy your last year a bit!”
「值得讚賞的奉獻，」克里斯多福點頭說，當他們進入房間並開始重新安排它以適合他們的喜好時。「但不要太過努力，好嗎？試著稍微享受一下你最後的一年！」

“I enjoy studying.” Remus said, firmly, unpacking his books. This wasn’t exactly a lie, but he knew he sounded defensive.
「我喜歡學習。」雷木斯堅定地說，開始整理他的書本。這不完全是謊言，但他知道自己聽起來很防備。

The truth was; he knew he was working harder than he needed to, and for longer hours. But it was better than lying awake all night worrying about the various other problems that plagued him. He still hadn’t heard from Grant - though that could just be the vagaries of muggle post. He hadn’t given any proper thought to his mother yet, though he knew he really ought to. There had been three reports of werewolf attacks over the summer, and one arrest made. When it came down to it, NEWTs were the only thing Remus thought he could really cope with at the moment.
事實是；他知道自己比需要的更努力工作，並且工作時間更長。但這比整晚躺在床上擔心困擾他的各種其他問題要好。他仍然沒有聽到格蘭特的消息——雖然這可能只是麻瓜郵政的不確定性。他還沒有正確地考慮到他的母親，雖然他知道他真的應該這樣做。夏天有三起狼人攻擊的報告，並且有一人被逮捕。說到底，新生考試是雷木斯目前唯一認為自己能夠應對的事。

And he didn’t actually think anyone had really missed him, exactly - after all, they were very busy too. Lily and James had a whole host of new responsibilities, on top of their NEWTs. Lily was taking Advanced Potions, James had quidditch. Peter and Dorcas were on-again-off-again, but it seemed to keep him pretty occupied, and Marlene was working harder than ever this year in the lead up to her healer academy entrance exams. Mary, of course, had a new boyfriend, which kept her busy.
而且他實際上並不認為有人真的想念他——畢竟，他們也很忙。莉莉和詹姆斯除了新生考試外，還有一整套新的責任。莉莉正在學習高級魔藥學，詹姆斯有魁地奇。彼得和多卡斯一會兒在一起，一會兒又分開，但這似乎讓他們非常忙碌，而瑪琳今年在她的醫療學院入學考試前比以往更加努力地工作。當然，瑪麗有了一個新男友，這讓她很忙。

“You need a break.” Christopher was saying, taking his own seat next to Remus, like his second in command. “That’s all I’m saying.”
「你需要休息。」克里斯多福說，坐在雷木斯旁邊，像是他的副手。「我只想說這些。」

“Ok,” Remus nodded, as if he was really taking it in.
「好的，」雷木斯點頭，彷彿他真的聽進去了。

It was alright for Christopher; he was a pureblood. Even if he didn’t work as hard as he did, there was probably a cushy ministry job waiting for him once he finished school. If Remus worked every hour of the day, and got an O in every NEWT, he still didn’t see much of a future beyond part time work and depending on his friends for help. That’s if Greyback didn’t get him first, or if the ministry didn’t lock him up.
對克里斯多福來說這沒問題；他是純血巫師。即使他沒有像現在這樣努力工作，一旦他完成學校，可能還會有一份舒適的部門工作等著他。如果雷木斯一天工作每一個小時，並且在每個新生考試中都獲得O，他仍然看不到除了兼職工作和依賴朋友幫助之外的未來。那還是如果格雷巴克沒有先抓住他，或者部門沒有把他鎖起來。

The other students began arriving, so they could stop talking about it. It was a smaller group than last year, but still a good round dozen. You couldn't expect everyone to show up for the first week. Sirius did come, much to Remus’s surprise, and the girls’ delight.
其他學生開始陸續到來，他們可以停止談論這個話題。這是一個比去年更小的團體，但仍然有十二個人。你不能指望每個人都會在第一週出現。小天狼星來了，令雷木斯驚訝，女孩們也很高興。

“Sit here, Sirius!” Martha Eriksson, a fifth year Hufflepuff, waved at him.
「坐這裡，小天狼星！」五年級的赫夫帕夫學生瑪莎·艾瑞克森向他揮手。

Sirius smiled politely and acquiesced, placing himself directly opposite Remus in the horseshoe of desks. Remus nodded at him, and tried not to hold eye contact for too long before gently clearing his throat and addressing the room.
小天狼星禮貌地微笑並同意了，把自己放在雷木斯對面的書桌圓環中。雷木斯向他點了點頭，試圖不與他對視太久，然後輕輕清了清喉嚨，開始對大家說話。

“Hi everyone,” he smiled, looking about, “Nice to see you all back. Er. Shall we start by picking a subject? Anyone struggling with anything?”
「大家好，」他微笑著，環顧四周，「很高興見到你們都回來了。嗯。我們先選一個科目開始吧？有沒有人遇到困難？」

The fifth years were all having a bad time with Astronomy, and Christopher volunteered to walk them through Eudoxus’s theories on planetary movements. Three of the sixth years were stuck on a History essay, and the second years wanted help with Transfiguration.
五年級的學生在天文學上遇到了困難，克里斯多福自願幫他們講解厄多克索斯的行星運行理論。三名六年級學生在歷史論文上陷入困境，二年級學生則需要變形學方面的幫助。

“Ok,” Remus said to the sixth years, “If you lot can wait a bit, I’ll just get these two going on the Transfiguration stuff first…”
「好的，」雷木斯對六年級的學生說，「如果你們能等一下，我先幫這兩個人處理變形學的問題……」

“I can do that,” Sirius said, suddenly.
「我可以做那個，」小天狼星突然說。

“Really?” Remus blinked, raising a skeptical eyebrow.
「真的嗎？」雷木斯眨了眨眼，挑起懷疑的眉毛。

“Really.” Sirius replied, coolly, “I’m better at Transfiguration than you, anyway.”
「真的。」小天狼星冷靜地回答，「反正我變形學比你強。」

“Oh, ok then…”
「哦，那好吧……」

The two second years looked very pleased to have Sirius Black, whose reputation as school rebel and general heartthrob preceded him, paying them attention, though Martha Eriksson looked a bit peeved.
那兩名二年級學生看起來非常高興有小天狼星·布萊克——他的名聲作為學校叛逆者和一般迷人男孩早已傳開——給他們關注，儘管瑪莎·艾瑞克森看起來有點不悅。

The session, booked in for two hours, went very well, in Remus’s opinion. He tried not to hover over Sirius too much, though there was a lot of laughter and noise coming from that corner of the room. By the end everyone seemed to have achieved whatever they had wanted to achieve, and Sirius even stayed behind to help tidy the room.
這次安排了兩小時的學習小組，在雷木斯看來進行得非常順利。他試著不過於干涉小天狼星，儘管房間角落那邊傳來了很多笑聲和喧鬧。到最後，大家似乎都完成了他們想要達到的目標，小天狼星甚至留下來幫忙整理房間。

“Will you be ok here?” Christopher asked Remus, “I’m supposed to be patrolling with Lily.”
「你在這裡會沒事嗎？」克里斯多福問雷木斯，「我應該和莉莉一起巡邏。」

“We’ll be fine.” Sirius said, with what he probably thought was a very sweet smile, but was bordering on mania.
「我們會沒事的。」小天狼星說，帶著他認為很甜美的微笑，但已經接近於瘋狂。

“Ok good.” Christopher gave him a haughty glance, before returning to Remus, “See you Saturday for stationery shopping?”
「好的。」克里斯多福給了他一個高傲的瞥視，然後回過頭對雷木斯說，「星期六見，去買文具？」

“Great, yeah, meet you in the common room after breakfast.” Remus nodded, helping Sirius push a desk back into place.
「太好了，是的，早餐後在公共休息室見。」雷木斯點頭說，幫助小天狼星把桌子推回原位。

“See you!”
「再見！」

As soon as the door closed, Sirius stopped what he was doing and placed his hands on his hips, scowling.
門一關上，小天狼星就停下手中的動作，把雙手放在腰上，皺起眉頭。

“You’re going to Hogsmeade with him?!”
「你要和他一起去霍格斯密德？！」

“I said I would.” Remus frowned, taken aback, “I need a new quill. What’s the problem? I can meet you lot after we shop for quills, can’t I?”
「我說過我會去的。」雷木斯皺眉，不解地說，「我需要一支新的羽毛筆。有什麼問題嗎？我可以在我們買完羽毛筆後和你們見面，不是嗎？」

“But I thought you and me would… I’ve hardly seen you this week.”
「但我以為你和我會……我這周幾乎沒見到你。」

“We wouldn’t be alone, James and Peter would be there. It’s not like I’m taking anything away from you.”
「我們不會單獨在一起，詹姆斯和彼得也會在那裡。我可不是要搶走你的什麼。」

“Lily and James will be off by themselves. And Peter and Dorcas, probably.” Sirius was in real danger of pouting, now. Remus knew he ought to try and avoid a sulk, if he could.
「莉莉和詹姆斯會單獨在一起。彼得和多卡斯也可能。」小天狼星現在真的有撅嘴的危險。雷木斯知道如果可以，他應該嘗試避免讓他鬧脾氣。

“You can join me and Christopher, if you want.” He said. Sirius grimaced.
「如果你願意，可以和我以及克里斯多福一起。」他說。小天狼星面露苦澀之色。

“Stationery shopping.”
「買文具。」

“You need quills too. The only reason I keep running out is because you pinch all of mine.”
「你也需要羽毛筆。我一直缺的唯一原因就是因為你偷了我的。」

“But Moony…”
「但是，月亮。」

“You’re not jealous, are you?”
「你不會嫉妒吧？」

“Of course not.” Sirius shook his head, and returned to the desks, using his wand to return everything to order. He sighed, heavily, “I’ll come stationery shopping, then.”
「當然不會。」小天狼星搖頭，回到桌子旁，用魔杖把一切整理回原位。他重重地嘆了口氣，「那我就去買文具吧。」

Remus felt a pang of guilt.
雷木斯感到一陣內疚。

 

“I’ll see if I can get rid of Chris after. Or we could find the others and go for a drink?”

「我會看看能否把克里斯多福擺脫掉。或者我們可以找其他人去喝一杯？」

“I’m not going to Madam Puddifoot’s.” Sirius said darkly, a hint of humour returning to his face. Remus smiled and slapped him on the shoulder,

「我不會去馬丹·波迪富特的。」小天狼星黑著臉說，臉上帶著一絲幽默的痕跡。雷木斯微笑著拍了拍他的肩膀，

“Good. Or I’d have to stop fancying you.”

「那就好。不然我就得停止喜歡你了。」

“As if you could.” Sirius took his wrist and pulled him closer, kissing him hard on the lips.

「才不像你能做到那樣。」小天狼星抓住他的手腕，把他拉近，猛地吻了他一下。

Oh , Remus thought, we haven’t done this in a while. He felt really guilty, then. Perhaps Sirius was right - he’d been so wrapped up in everything else he’d neglected the one thing that might have made it all a bit more bearable.

哦，雷木斯想，我們有一段時間沒有這樣做了。他感到非常內疚。也許小天狼星是對的——他已經如此專注於其他事物，以至於忽略了可能會讓一切變得更可忍受的那一件事。

They pulled apart and Sirius glanced at the door, licking his lips.

他們分開，小天狼星看了一眼門，舔了舔嘴唇。

“Do you have to run off to the library or somewhere?”

「你是不是得跑去圖書館或其他地方？」

Remus shook his head. Sirius grinned. “Good. Colloportus .”

雷木斯搖了搖頭。小天狼星笑了。「好。封閉咒。」

The lock in the door clicked shut.

門上的鎖發出咔哒一聲關上了。

Saturday 17th September 1977

1977年9月17日，星期六

“Have you charmed your bloody curtains shut, you lunatic?!” James voice woke Remus and Sirius the Saturday of the Hogsmeade trip.

「你這個瘋子，把該死的窗簾用咒語鎖住了嗎？！」詹姆斯的聲音在霍格斯密德之行的那個星期六早上吵醒了雷木斯和小天狼星。

Remus sat up bolt upright, eyes wide. He stared at the curtains, which shook as James attempted to get in. Sirius took a more casual approach, rolling over slowly and groaning,

雷木斯驚慌地坐了起來，眼睛瞪得大大的。他盯著窗簾，窗簾在詹姆斯嘗試進入的過程中顫抖。小天狼星則採取了更隨意的態度，慢慢翻身，呻吟道，

“Bugger off, Potter.”

「滾開，波特。」

“You’ll miss breakfast!”

「你會錯過早餐的！」

“Be down in a bit.”

「過一會兒下來。」

“Hogsmeade today, remember! Common room at ten o’clock sharp.”

「記住今天是霍格斯密德！十點鐘準時在公共休息室。」

“Piss off , Prongs!”

「滾開，鹿角！」

“Charming.” James muttered, but the curtains stopped shaking, and in a few moments his footsteps could be heard receding, disappearing down the stairs.

「真迷人。」詹姆斯嘟囔道，但窗簾停止了顫抖，幾分鐘後他的腳步聲漸行漸遠，消失在樓梯下。

Remus exhaled. He pressed a hand to his chest, feeling his heart thudding hard, and willed it to calm down.

雷木斯嘆了口氣。他把手放在胸前，感覺到心臟跳動得很厲害，並希望它能平靜下來。

“Christ.” He breathed.

「天啊。」他輕聲說。

“Bit jumpy there, Moony?” Sirius grinned, rolling onto his back and stretching his arms over his head.

「有點神經質啊，月亮？」小天狼星笑著，翻身躺下，伸展雙臂。

“I really need to stop falling asleep here.”

「我真的需要停止在這裡睡著了。」

“You’re fine. The charm held, didn’t it?”

「沒事的。咒語有效，不是嗎？」

“You and James have boundary issues.” Remus pulled back the heavy bedclothes.

「你和詹姆斯有界限問題。」雷木斯掀開沉重的被子。

“Probably. Hey, don’t go!” Sirius reached out for his arm.

「可能是。嘿，別走！」小天狼星伸手抓住他的手臂。

“Breakfast!” Remus insisted, fishing about for his underwear.

「早餐！」雷木斯堅持道，四處找他的內褲。

They washed, dressed and hurried down to the Great Hall, just in time for the last few scraps of toast and a few dollops of porridge.

他們洗漱、穿衣，急匆匆地下樓到大廳，正好趕上了最後幾片吐司和幾勺粥。

“I expect it of Black, but it’s not like you to miss a meal, Remus,” Lily commented, skimming her copy of The Daily Prophet .

「我對布萊克這樣的事有所預期，但你不會錯過一頓飯，雷木斯。」莉莉一邊翻閱《預言家日報》一邊說道。

“I was up late reading.” Remus said. “I can have a lie in on a Saturday, if I want…”

「我昨晚讀書讀得很晚。」雷木斯說。「如果我願意，星期六我可以多睡一會兒……」

“Wasn’t saying you couldn’t.” She tutted, as if he was being over-sensitive. She lowered the paper, “I was patrolling with Christopher Barley yesterday evening. He mentioned you were going to Hogsmeade together today…”

「我不是說你不能。」她嘟囔道，好像他過於敏感似的。她放下報紙，「我昨晚和克里斯多福·巴利巡邏。他提到你們今天要一起去霍格斯密德……」

“Mmph?” Remus looked up at her gormlessly, mouth full of toast and honey.

「嗯？」雷木斯愣愣地看著她，嘴裡滿是吐司和蜂蜜。

What fresh hell? Everyone was looking at him, suddenly, with varying degrees of amused curiosity. He swallowed. “Yeah. Just to Scrivenshaft’s, I need a new quill.”

什麼新煩惱？突然之間，所有人都帶著不同程度的好奇目光看著他。他吞下食物。「對，就去斯克里文肖夫那裡，我需要一支新的羽毛筆。」

“Get on quite well, don’t you?” Lily asked, innocently.

「你們相處得很好，不是嗎？」莉莉天真地問。

“We do the study group together…”

「我們一起做學習小組……」

“Did he ask you , Remus?” Mary joined in.

「他有問你嗎，雷木斯？」瑪麗插話道。

“What’s that got to do with anything?”

「那和這有什麼關係？」

“Oh, c’mon,” she grinned, “Chris is definitely… you know; ‘that way’. He’s so camp.”

「哦，拜託，」她笑著說，「克里斯肯定是……你知道的；‘那樣’。他太娘了。」

“Is he?” Remus asked, uncomfortably. “I hadn’t noticed. We’re just buying quills, nothing else.”

「是嗎？」雷木斯不安地問。「我沒注意到。我們只是買羽毛筆，別的沒有。」

“But if he fancies you--”

「但如果他喜歡你——」

“Merlin, leave him alone, will you?!” Sirius said, hotly, glaring at both girls, “Just because Christopher is… whatever, doesn’t mean Moony automatically has to go out with him. He’s not that desperate.”

「梅林，別打擾他，好嗎？！」小天狼星激動地說，瞪著兩個女孩，「只因為克里斯多福是……無論如何，都不代表月亮必須和他約會。他不是那麼絕望的。」

“Oi,” Remus said, relieved by the interruption, “Who says I’m desperate at all?!”

「喂，」雷木斯說，對這次打斷感到鬆了口氣，「誰說我根本就急於要這樣？！」

“Exactly.” Sirius nodded, “See? He’s not interested.”

「正是。」小天狼星點了點頭，「看吧？他不感興趣。」

“Oh, but Chris is really nice,” Lily said, “I thought you’d make a good couple. Similar interests and whatnot.”

「哦，但克里斯真的很好，」莉莉說，「我覺得你們會是一對很好的情侶。興趣相似什麼的。」

“Maybe Moony doesn’t want to go out with someone similar.” Sirius interjected, setting down his coffee mug a bit harder than necessary.

「也許月亮不想和相似的人約會。」小天狼星插話說，稍微用力地放下咖啡杯。

Remus surreptitiously put a hand on his knee under the table, hoping to quiet him. Sirius glanced at him, then looked down at his plate. Thankfully, he got the message.

雷木斯偷偷地把手放在桌子下面的膝蓋上，希望能讓他安靜下來。小天狼星瞥了他一眼，然後低頭看著他的盤子。幸運的是，他明白了信息。

“You can’t let stuff like that bother you.” Remus whispered on the way back to the common room, as soon as the others were out of earshot.

「你不能讓這種事困擾你。」雷木斯在回到公共休息室的路上低聲說，當其他人聽不見時。

“It should bother you .” Sirius replied, still wound up.

「你應該被困擾。」小天狼星回答道，仍然很激動。

“Yeah, but you need to learn to be more subtle if we’re going to--”

「是的，但如果我們要——」

“Oh, we’re back to this again.” Sirius sighed, heavily, “I’m sorry I’m not as good at all this undercover bullshit as you are.”

「哦，我們又回到這個問題了。」小天狼星重重地嘆了口氣，「對不起，我在這些潛伏的鬼話方面沒有你那麼擅長。」

“What?!” Remus stared at him. Sirius shoved his hands in his pockets and muttered,

「什麼？！」雷木斯盯著他。小天狼星把雙手插進口袋，低聲嘀咕道，

“Nothing.” He sped up, catching up with James and leaving Remus to walk by himself.

「沒事。」他加快了腳步，追上了詹姆斯，留下雷木斯自己走。

“Everything ok?” Lily slowed down, as James and Sirius began chattering animatedly ahead of them.

「一切還好嗎？」莉莉放慢了腳步，因為詹姆斯和小天狼星在前面開始興奮地聊起來。

“Fine.” Remus replied.

「很好。」雷木斯回答道。

He was in a mood now. Who did Sirius think he was, complaining about how difficult it was to keep secrets, when it was all his idea to keep the relationship quiet in the first place?! He ought to just go off with Chris and ignore Sirius for the rest of the day - that would serve him right.

他現在心情不佳。小天狼星以為他自己是誰，抱怨保守秘密有多麼困難，當初保持這段關係秘密的主意完全是他的！他應該就和克里斯多福一起去，忽略小天狼星剩下的時間——那樣正好讓他得到應有的報應。

“What did he say?” Lily was asking.

「他說了什麼？」莉莉問道。

“Hm?”

「嗯？」

“Sirius,” Lily nodded ahead at the two black haired boys in front, “Is he being a prat? Because I will give James permission to box his ears, if he’s acting weird about you being…”

「小天狼星，」莉莉點了點前面的兩個黑髮男孩，「他在耍什麼花樣嗎？因為如果他對你……表現得很奇怪，我會給詹姆斯允許，讓他給小天狼星一頓耳光。」

“Oh, no, nothing like that,” Remus waved a hand and forced on a smile, “It was something else. Stupid stuff, don’t worry.”

「哦，不，沒有那樣的事，」雷木斯揮了揮手，強顏歡笑道，「是其他的事。愚蠢的事，不用擔心。」

Christopher was waiting in the common room, a shy smile on his face. Remus smiled back, bounding over to him. “Ready?” He asked, brightly.

克里斯多福在公共休息室等著，臉上帶著羞澀的微笑。雷木斯回以微笑，跳到他那裡。「準備好了嗎？」他明亮地問道。

“Yeah,” Chris nodded, excited, “I’ve got a list of books I wanted to look for, too - if that’s ok with you? I mean, if you have time, before you have to meet your friends…”

「嗯，」克里斯點了點頭，興奮地說，「我還有一張書單，想要找些書——如果你沒問題的話？我的意思是，如果你有時間，在你見你的朋友之前……」

“You’re my friend too, Chris.” Remus said, hoping Sirius overheard.

「你也是我的朋友，克里斯。」雷木斯說，希望小天狼星能聽到。

It was a nice day out, sunny for late September, with only a very faint chill in the air, meaning that by the time the students had trekked down to the village most of them were warm enough to have removed their heavy cloaks. Remus kept his on, because he rarely took off any layers, but Chris shrugged his off once they reached the first row of shops,

外面天氣很好，九月底的陽光灿烂，空氣中只有一絲輕微的寒意，這意味著當學生們艱難地走到村莊時，他們中的大多數已經暖和到可以脫下沉重的披風了。雷木斯保持著披風，因為他很少脫掉任何層，但克里斯一到達第一排商店就把它脫下了，

“Ooooh, look at him!” A sharp wolf-whistle sounded behind them. They both spun around to see Barty Crouch and Regulus Black not far away, both snickering meanly.

「哦，看那個！」一聲尖銳的狼嗥在他們身後響起。他們都轉過身來，看到巴提·克勞奇和雷古勒斯·布萊克不遠處，兩人都帶著惡意的笑聲。

“Ignore them.” Chris muttered to Remus, “They’re in my Potions class, they’re dickheads.”

「別理他們。」克里斯對雷木斯低聲說，「他們在我的魔藥課上，他們是些混蛋。」

“Come on,” Remus said, “Let’s see your list…”

「來吧，」雷木斯說，「讓我們看看你的書單……」

They passed a pleasant couple of hours together untroubled by anyone. Remus bought one of the fancy self-inking quills, as well as an ordinary one as a backup. They went to the book shop next and Christopher bought so much that he had to perform a weightlessness charm on the bag just to carry it all back.

他們一起度過了幾個愉快的時光，沒有受到任何人的打擾。雷木斯買了一支精美的自動上墨羽毛筆，還有一支普通的作為備用。他們接著去了書店，克里斯多福買了很多東西，甚至不得不對袋子施加抗重咒來攜帶所有的書。

“My trunk’s nearly full already,” he laughed, “What with all of the muggle books I brought with me. Have you read Other Voices, Other Rooms ?”

「我的行李箱差不多已經滿了，」他笑著說，「加上我帶來的所有麻瓜書。你讀過《其他聲音，其他房間》嗎？」

“No, I didn’t do much reading this summer…”

「沒有，我這個夏天沒有讀太多書……」

Everything was going pretty well, until they decided to head for the Three Broomsticks as a final stop. Remus was feeling almost like forgiving Sirius, by now, having calmed down, though he was a bit apprehensive about seeing the others with Christopher.

一切進展得相當順利，直到他們決定把三把掃帚作為最後一站。雷木斯現在幾乎覺得要原諒小天狼星了，心情也平靜下來了，儘管他對與克里斯多福一起見其他人有點擔心。

“Lily said you’d told her about us coming to Hogsmeade…” he said, casually. Christopher furrowed his brow,

「莉莉說你告訴她我們要來霍格斯密德……」他隨意地說。克里斯多福皺起了眉頭，

“Yeah, I think it just came up in conversation.”

「是的，我想這只是聊天時提到的。」

“You know she’s one of my best friends,” Remus said, hoping he didn’t sound too much like he was accusing Chris of anything, “So... she knows I’m queer…”

「你知道她是我最好的朋友之一，」雷木斯說，希望他聽起來不會像是在指責克里斯什麼，「所以……她知道我喜歡男生……」

“Mm, she knows I am too.” Christopher said. “Or I assume she does. Most people figured it out before me, I think. Lily’s a really nice girl, though.”

「嗯，她知道我也是。」克里斯多福說。「或者我認為她知道。我覺得大多數人比我早就弄明白了。不過莉莉是一個很棒的女孩。」

“Yeah, right,” Remus nodded. “Thing is, I think she thought this was… um… y’know, like we were coming to Hogsmeade together . So… just, if we see my friends, they might act a bit funny.”

「是的，對的，」雷木斯點點頭。「問題是，我覺得她以為這是……嗯……你知道的，就像我們一起來霍格斯密德。所以……如果我們遇到我的朋友，他們可能會有點奇怪。」

“Oh,” Chris said, looking confused, “Er… ok? Would you rather we didn’t go to the pub, in case they’re there?”

「哦，」克里斯多福說，顯得困惑，「呃……好吧？你希望我們不去酒吧嗎，以防他們在那裡？」

“No!” Remus said, quickly - he knew he was making a pig’s ear of explaining himself, “I just meant--”

「不！」雷木斯迅速說——他知道自己在解釋時搞得一團糟，「我只是意味著——」

“Here they come!” That mean voice interrupted them again. They’d just turned a corner, and found their path blocked by the two sixth year Slytherins.

「他們來了！」那個惡毒的聲音再次打斷了他們。他們剛轉過一個角落，發現他們的路被兩個六年級的斯萊特林擋住了。

“Oh, get lost, will you?” Remus sighed, impatiently. “Go and find someone else to annoy.”

「哦，走開，好嗎？」雷木斯不耐煩地嘆了口氣。「去找別人去惹。」

“Watch out, Loony Lupin,” Regulus cackled, “ Chrissy boy there is a knob-gobbler!”

「小心點，瘋狂的盧平，」雷古勒斯咯咯笑著說，「那個克里斯小子是個爛人！」

Chris turned bright red and looked at his feet. In a fit of rage, Remus withdrew his wand and adopted a duelling stance.

克里斯的臉變得通紅，低頭看著自己的腳。雷木斯憤怒地抽出魔杖，擺出了決鬥姿勢。

“Piss off, Black!” He shouted, “Or I’ll tell mummy you still play quidditch!”

「滾開，布萊克！」他大喊，「否則我會告訴媽媽你還在打魁地奇！」

Regulus scowled, and pulled out his own wand.

雷古勒斯皺起了眉頭，抽出了自己的魔杖。

“Yeah,” another voice added, “And I’ll tell all your creepy mates how you wet the bed until you were ten!” Sirius appeared at Remus’s shoulder. Remus laughed.

「對，」另一個聲音接著說，「而且我會告訴你所有那些古怪的朋友你十歲時還尿床！」小天狼星出現在雷木斯的肩膀旁。雷木斯笑了。

“Is that true?”

「這是真的嗎？」

“Yup.”

「是的。」

“Shut up!” Regulus burst out, angrily. He didn’t go red when he was embarrassed, but turn a shade paler. “ Flagrante! ”

「閉嘴！」雷古勒斯憤怒地爆發了。他在尷尬時不會臉紅，而是變得更蒼白。「顯赫！」

“ Protego !” Sirius yelled, deflecting the curse just in time.

「保護！」小天狼星大喊，及時擋住了咒語。

“Just you wait!” Regulus growled, backing away.

「等著吧！」雷古勒斯低聲咆哮，向後退去。

“What’re you gonna do, give me detention?” Sirius laughed, “I’m quaking in my boots. Run along, little brother.”

「你要怎麼做，給我留校察看？」小天狼星笑著說，「我在顫抖呢。快走吧，小兄弟。」

Regulus clenched his fists.

雷古勒斯握緊了拳頭。

“You’re no brother of mine!” He spat, as he turned and stalked away, Barty following him, looking annoyed that he hadn’t had his own fun.

「你不是我的兄弟！」他吐口水說，轉身走開了，巴提跟在他身後，看起來對自己沒有發揮樂趣感到惱火。

“Suits me.” Sirius said, quietly, under his breath. He turned to Remus and Chris, “Three Broomsticks?”

「正合我意。」小天狼星低聲說。他轉向雷木斯和克里斯多福，「三把掃帚？」

 

Chapter 122: Seventh Year: The MastermindIt couldn’t have been a coincidence that Sirius had shown up at exactly the right moment, but Remus was so relieved at the time that he didn’t bring it up. Sirius was being so friendly towards Chris, and Remus didn’t want to start any kind of argument. Whatever had been up that morning had clearly been a fluke; everything was fine, everyone was happy.

「這不可能是巧合，小天狼星恰好出現在了正確的時刻，但雷木斯當時太放鬆了，沒提起這件事。小天狼星對克里斯非常友善，雷木斯不想引起任何爭吵。那天早上的問題顯然只是偶發的；一切都很好，每個人都很高興。」

“I can’t believe he’s still allowed to be a prefect.” Lily said, fiercely, when she heard what had happened with Regulus. “He’s been worse than ever this year - and don’t get me started on the Crouch kid, he gives me the creeps.” She shuddered visibly, and James put a gallant arm around her shoulders.

「莉莉聽到雷古勒斯的事後，激烈地說：“我無法相信他還能繼續當 prefect。他今年比以往更糟了——更別提那個克勞奇小子了，他讓我感到毛骨悚然。”她顯著地打了個顫抖，詹姆斯優雅地把手搭在她肩膀上。」

Christopher shrugged, nervously,

“It’s fine, I can handle those two idiots.”

「克里斯緊張地聳了聳肩，“沒事，我能處理那兩個白痴。”」

They hadn’t mentioned what Regulus had actually said during their retelling, at Chris’s request. Still, he looked a bit overwhelmed, sitting with all four marauders and the Head Girl in The Three Broomsticks. Christopher’s own social circle was quite small, and generally much quieter.

「他們在重述中沒有提到雷古勒斯實際上說了什麼，應克里斯的要求。儘管如此，他看起來有些不知所措，坐在三把掃帚酒吧裡，與四個 marauders 和學監女孩一起。克里斯自己的社交圈相當小，通常也安靜得多。」

“Ought to teach them a lesson,” Sirius said, signalling to Rosmerta for another round of butterbeer.

「小天狼星說：“應該給他們上點課。”他對羅絲梅塔示意再來一輪奶油啤酒。」

“Another one,” Remus sighed, under his breath.

「雷木斯嘆了口氣，低聲說：“再來一杯。”」

“What sort of thing were you thinking, Pads?” James leaned over, excited.

「詹姆斯興奮地俯身問道：“你在想什麼，Pads？”」

“I’d need to think very hard.” Sirius said, stroking his chin thoughtfully, like an old professor.

「小天狼星說：“我得仔細考慮一下。”他若有所思地撫摸著下巴，像一位年老的教授。」

“We haven’t done a prank in ages,” Peter put in, eyes gleaming, “Not since… er…”

「彼得插嘴說：“我們好久沒做惡作劇了。”他的眼睛閃閃發光，“自從……嗯……”」

“The Bubotuber-puffballs.” Remus provided, sipping his drink.

「雷木斯補充道：“是那個泡沫樹膠球。”一邊啜飲著他的飲料。」

“It’s best if you just cover your ears, Christopher,” Lily advised wryly, “There’s no stopping them once they’re in planning-mode.”

「莉莉諷刺地建議道：“最好還是把耳朵捂上，克里斯托弗。當他們進入計劃模式時，沒有什麼能阻止他們。”」

Remus poked out his tongue at her. It was true enough; he was already starting to get those familiar butterflies in his stomach that he always did when the marauders embarked on a new mission.

「雷木斯對她吐了吐舌頭。這確實是真的；他已經開始感受到那種熟悉的緊張感，這種感覺在 marauders 開展新任務時總是會出現。」

“You wouldn’t hurt anyone… would you?” Chris looked anxiously at Sirius and James, who were doing their telepathic communication thing, grinning at each other like loons and waggling their eyebrows.

「克里斯焦慮地看著小天狼星和詹姆斯，他們在做著心靈感應的溝通，像傻瓜一樣對彼此咧嘴笑，揮舞著眉毛。」

“What are you looking at us for?!” Sirius winked, “ Moony’s the dangerous one.”

「小天狼星眨了眨眼說：“你看我們幹嘛？月亮才是危險的那個。”」

“How dare you.” Remus replied, smirking, “Everyone knows that you three lead me astray. Anyway, it’s seventh year, and we’ve done everything there is to do.”

「雷木斯帶著笑容回答道：“你真敢說。大家都知道你們三個把我帶壞了。不過，這是第七年，我們已經做了所有能做的事。”」

“Have some imagination!” James said, “I can’t believe I’m hearing this from the boy who once literally changed time just for a laugh.”

「詹姆斯說：“有點想像力吧！我簡直不敢相信我會聽到這樣的話，來自那個曾經為了好玩而真的改變過時間的男孩。”」

“That was you?!” Chris yelped, looking affronted. Remus tutted,

「克里斯驚呼道：“那是你？！”看起來很受驚。雷木斯輕蔑地咂了咂嘴。」

“I did not ‘literally’ do anything. We mucked about with the clocks.”

「雷木斯說：“我並沒有‘字面上’做什麼。我們只是擺弄了時鐘。”」

“When you were eleven,” Sirius said, “You single-handedly organised and implemented a full scale itching powder attack on the Slytherin boys.”

「小天狼星說：“當你十一歲的時候，你單槍匹馬地組織並實施了一次全面的癢粉攻擊，針對的是斯萊特林的男孩們。”」

“Rosehip seeds.” Remus corrected.

「雷木斯更正道：“是玫瑰果種子。”」

“And!” Peter added, bouncing excitedly, “You were the one who perfected the soap expansion spell when we blew up all the toilets in second year.”

「彼得興奮地補充道：“而且，你還是那個在我們第二年炸掉所有廁所時，完善了肥皂擴展咒的人。”」

“Ok, yeah, I helped with that… it was a team effort!”

「雷木斯說：“好吧，是的，我在那方面有幫助……這是團隊合作！”」

“Remus, wasn’t it you who invented that word-swapping spell to stop the Slytherins using insults?” Lily asked, smiling sweetly at him, tongue between her teeth.

「莉莉問道：“雷木斯，難道不是你發明了那個單詞交換咒語，來阻止斯萊特林使用侮辱性詞語嗎？”她甜美地對他微笑，牙齒之間夾著舌頭。」

“Oh, I liked that one!” Chris cheered up a bit.

「克里斯略顯高興地說：“哦，我喜歡那個！”」

“I didn’t invent it.” Remus said, “I just… er… did the research.”

「雷木斯說：“我並沒有發明它。我只是……嗯……做了研究。”」

“See.” James said to Christopher. “Moony is our criminal mastermind. Without him, we wouldn’t be the legends we are today.”

「詹姆斯對克里斯說：“看見了吧。月亮是我們的犯罪策劃者。沒有他，我們不會成為今天的傳奇。”」

Christopher stared at Remus, evidently seeing him in a completely new light. Remus sighed, heavily.

「克里斯驚訝地盯著雷木斯，顯然對他有了全新的認識。雷木斯重重地嘆了口氣。」

“I hate you all.”

「我討厭你們所有人。」

“Does that mean you’ll help us with another prank?”

「那是不是意味著你會幫我們再搞一個惡作劇？」

“...Yes.”

「……是的。」

“I’ll help too!” Chris said, suddenly, looking happier than he had in hours.

「克里斯突然說：“我也會幫忙！”看起來比幾個小時前開心多了。」

“Oh for goodness’ sake.” Lily groaned. “I suppose someone had better monitor you lot, if only for health and safety… I’m in.”

「莉莉呻吟道：“真是的。我想還是有人得監督你們，至少是為了健康和安全……我參加。”」

“Excellent.” James beamed.

「詹姆斯笑得很開心：“太好了。”」

Remus smiled back at them all, trying to ignore the feeling of anxiety growing in his chest.

「雷木斯回以微笑，試圖忽略胸口愈發增長的焦慮感。」

Monday 3rd October 1977

Dear Remus,

Sorry I did not write sooner I have been very busy. Sorry too for my bad writing. I am at my aunt Val’s pub in Hove and its very nice. Shes letting me work here and stay in her spare room but I will move out on my own when I have some mony saved. I hope you will come to see me when you can. You can ring me on the number at the bottom if you like.

I hope school is ok. I hope Syri Sirus Siry your friend with the long hair is taking care of you as well as you took care of me.

Lots of love from Grant Chapman.

P.S. Did you here that Marc Bolan died? It was a car crash. I thought of you when I herd and I hoped you was not too sad.

Remus held the letter, written on a bit of narrow ruled paper torn from an exercise book, and sighed with relief. He folded it neatly and slipped it in his pocket, grinning to himself. Grant was safe. Grant was safe .

「雷木斯拿著這封寫在撕自練習本的窄行紙上的信，感到如釋重負。他把它整齊地摺好，放進口袋裡，自己微笑著。格蘭特安全了。格蘭特安全了。」

“Who was that from?” James asked, catching Remus’s smile.

「詹姆斯問道：“那是誰的信？”他注意到雷木斯的微笑。」

“A friend from St Edmund’s,” Remus replied easily. Sirius looked up, and Remus gave a very slight nod. Sirius smiled too. Remus cleared his throat and returned to his breakfast, “Marc Bolan died.”

「雷木斯輕鬆地回答：“來自聖愛德蒙的朋友。”小天狼星抬頭看了看，雷木斯輕輕點了點頭。小天狼星也笑了。雷木斯清了清喉嚨，回到他的早餐上，“馬克·博蘭死了。”」

“Oh no!” Mary, Lily and Sirius said in unison.

「瑪麗、莉莉和小天狼星異口同聲地說：“哦，不！”」

“Who’s--” James started,

“The singer from T.Rex.”

「詹姆斯開始問道，“誰是——”」

“哦，對！那不是你們兩個在一年級時迷上的麻瓜樂隊嗎？”

Mary tutted, rolling her eyes,

“Bloody purebloods.”

「瑪麗輕蔑地咂嘴，翻了個白眼，“該死的純血。”」

“Oi.” Sirius said, nudging her with his elbow. “That’s really crap news, though. Hey, I know what we should d--”

「“喂。”小天狼星說，肘部輕撞了她一下。“不過這真的很糟糕。嘿，我知道我們該做什麼——”」

“No.” Lily said, suddenly, “I know that look, Black!”

「“不。”莉莉突然說，“我知道那個表情，布萊克！”」

“What?” He painted on his most innocent expression. Lily was not fooled.

“沒什麼？”他擺出最無辜的表情。莉莉不為所動。

“ No parties.”

「“不許辦派對。”」

“Oh come on , Evans, it’s for--”

“拜託，埃文斯，這是為了——”

“I’ll tell you what I told James.” She shook her head, “Birthdays are fine, but not during exams, and not this early in the year!”

「“我告訴詹姆斯的事我會再告訴你。”她搖了搖頭，“生日派對可以，但考試期間不行，而且這麼早的時候也不行！”」

“Prongs?!” Sirius glared at his friend. James looked awkward,

“Sorry, mate, I did agree to that… y’know Head Boy and everything…”

「“Prongs？！”小天狼星怒視他的朋友。詹姆斯顯得尷尬，」

“對不起，伙計，我答應了這件事……你知道的，學長什麼的……”

“Betrayal!” Sirius pointed at him dramatically, “Treachery! Treason!”

「“背叛！”小天狼星戲劇性地指著他，“叛國！叛逆！”」

“All right, calm it down…” Lily stood up. “I’m letting you have your birthday, aren’t I? Leave James alone.”

「“好吧，別激動……”莉莉站了起來。“我讓你辦生日派對，不是嗎？別再打擾詹姆斯了。”」

“You off?” James looked up at her.

“要走了？”詹姆斯抬頭看她。

“Potions.” She replied, “I want to get there early to ask Slughorn something.”

「“去魔藥課。”她回答道，“我想提前去問斯拉赫霍恩一些問題。”」

“I’ll walk you.” James stood up too, eagerly. Sirius frowned, but James was oblivious. He took Lily’s hand, and without looking away from her, “See you in a bit, Pads? And see you at lunch, Moony…”

「“我送你。”詹姆斯也站了起來，熱切地說。小天狼星皺了皺眉頭，但詹姆斯卻毫無察覺。他握住莉莉的手，沒有移開視線，“稍後見，Pads？午餐時見，月亮……”」

“See ya,” Remus nodded, reaching for some more toast.

「“再見，”雷木斯點點頭，伸手拿了些烤麵包。」

Sirius stared after the couple as they left the hall, heads bent close as they chatted happily.

「小天狼星盯著那對情侶，他們離開了餐廳，頭靠得很近，愉快地聊天。」

“Can you believe that?”

「“你能相信嗎？”」

“What?” Remus buttered his toast and mused on the merits of honey versus jam.

「“什麼？”雷木斯抹著黃油，思考著蜂蜜和果醬的優缺點。」

“Prongs not wanting a party!”

「“詹姆斯不想要派對！”」

“Well, it is quite early in the year…”

「“嗯，這一年確實還很早……”」

“This time last year he’d have been all for it. It’s her.”

「“去年這個時候他會全力支持的。是她的問題。”」

“Oh dear,” Mary laughed, “I know what’s wrong with you, Mr Black.”

「“哦，親愛的，”瑪麗笑道，“我知道你怎麼了，布萊克先生。”」

“There’s nothing wrong with me, I’m the same as I ever was, it’s--”

「“我沒事，我跟以前一樣，這是——”」

“Exactly!” She arched her eyebrow at him, “You never change. You’re jealous.”

「“正是！”她挑了挑眉，“你從來沒變。你在嫉妒。”」

“Pfft.” Sirius folded his arms and slouched down in his seat. His legs stretched out under the table and bumped against Remus’s. “As if I would be jealous of him .”

「“哼。”小天狼星摺疊著雙臂，懶散地坐在座位上。他的腿伸展到桌子下面，碰到了雷木斯的腿。“我怎麼會嫉妒他呢。”」

“Not of James ,” Mary rolled her eyes, “You’re jealous of Lily. She’s taken your best friend away and now you’re feeling neglected, right?”

「“不是對詹姆斯嫉妒，”瑪麗翻了翻白眼，“你嫉妒莉莉。她把你最好的朋友搶走了，現在你感到被忽視，對吧？”」

Sirius went very quiet. He looked down, then back up at Mary.

「小天狼星變得非常安靜。他低下頭，然後再看著瑪麗。」

“No.” He said, very fiercely, getting up. “I’m going to Potions.” He muttered, stalking off, away from the breakfast table. Mary sighed deeply, in that that girls did when they thought boys were being particularly dense.

「“不。”他非常激烈地說，站起來。“我要去上魔藥課。”他喃喃自語，從早餐桌上走開了。瑪麗深深地嘆了口氣，像女孩們在認為男孩特別遲鈍時所做的那樣。」

“Honestly.” She tutted. “You agree with me, don’t you, Remus?”

「“說真的。”她輕輕咂嘴。“你同意我的看法，不是嗎，雷木斯？”」

Remus shrugged. He just wanted to eat his breakfast in peace. Mary tutted at him, too. “ Boys .” She said, exasperated, “Emotional cripples, the lot of you. Right, I’ve got a free this morning, going to the library. You?”

「雷木斯耸耸肩。他只是想安靜地吃完早餐。瑪麗對他也咂了咂嘴。“男孩們。”她厭倦地說，“你們都是情感上的殘疾人。對了，我今天早上有空，要去圖書館。你呢？”」

“Yeah, but I had something else I wanted to do.”

「“有，我有其他事情想做。”」

“Suit yourself,” she smiled, getting up and leaving too.

「“隨你便，”她微笑著，站起來離開了。」

Finally alone, Remus’s mind began to work, the beginnings of an idea forming. He didn’t disagree with Lily exactly - the parties were a massive distraction, and not really fair on everyone else. But at the same time, he hated seeing Sirius’s excitement quashed; particularly by James, who had always been a wholly positive force in his life.

「終於獨自一人，雷木斯的思緒開始運轉，逐漸形成了一個想法。他並不完全不同意莉莉的看法——派對確實是一個巨大的分心，對其他人也不公平。但同時，他厭惡看到小天狼星的興奮被壓制，尤其是詹姆斯，他在雷木斯的生活中一直是一個完全正面的力量。」

He couldn’t help but feel that he, Remus, ought to be able to do something to cheer Sirius up. After all, he’d done madder things before. But what to do...

「他忍不住感覺自己，雷木斯，應該能做點什麼來讓小天狼星高興起來。畢竟，他以前做過更瘋狂的事情。但該怎麼做呢……」

To distract himself, he re-read Grant’s letter as he finished eating, then wrote a quick response.

「為了分散注意力，他在吃完早餐後重新讀了一遍格蘭特的信，然後寫了一封簡短的回信。」

 

Dear Grant,

Thanks for your letter. I’m so glad everything is going well with your aunt.

I would love to come and see you at Christmas, if not then, over the summer maybe. I will try to call as soon as I am able to - hopefully the first weekend in November.

Crap news about Bolan! Thanks for telling me, we get no news here.

Speak soon,

Remus

 

 

 

He’d send it to the Potters first thing. It hadn’t solved the Sirius problem, though. Remus had such a strong sense that he needed to do something - a gesture. Not romantic exactly, but… dramatic. He wanted to do something by himself, something that would make Sirius proud of him. This wasn’t a secret, Remus told himself; not in the usual sense. It was a surprise. A present. But what ?!

他打算一早就把它送到波特家。然而，這並沒有解決天狼星的問題。雷木斯感覺自己需要做點什麼——一個姿態。不完全是浪漫，但……戲劇性。他想自己做點什麼，能讓天狼星為他感到驕傲。雷木斯告訴自己，這不是秘密；不是通常意義上的秘密。這是一個驚喜，一份禮物。但做什麼呢？！

Just as Remus was getting up to leave the hall, Emmeline Vance wafted past in a haze of sweet perfume and blonde hair. Something clicked in Remus’s brain and he jogged to catch her up,

就在雷木斯準備離開餐廳時，艾梅琳·范斯在一片甜美的香水和金髮的迷霧中飄過。雷木斯的大腦中突然閃過一個念頭，他急忙追上她，

“Hey! Hey, Emmeline! Can I ask you a favour…?”

“嘿！嘿，艾梅琳！我可以請你幫個忙嗎……？”

Friday 7th October 1977

It had taken all week between lessons and homework, but Remus had finally cracked it in time for Friday morning. It was a bit mad - which was why he hadn’t told anyone about it. They might think it was a bit strange, going so far over the top just to cheer Sirius up. But it just seemed so worthwhile at the time; making Sirius happy.

1977年10月7日，星期五

整個星期在課程和家庭作業之間花費了很多時間，但雷木斯終於在星期五早上解決了這個問題。這有點瘋狂——這就是為什麼他沒有告訴任何人。他們可能會覺得有點奇怪，為了讓天狼星高興而如此過火。但當時似乎非常值得；讓天狼星快樂。

Emmeline’s instructions had been relatively clear, but Remus had made some of his own tweaks for good measure. He had paid her off with the last of his tobacco and sworn her to secrecy, though she’d said she wouldn’t tell anyway because she liked the idea so much - she loved Marc Bolan too. The next few days he spent doing preliminary work in the library, hidden at his favourite desk near one of the back windows, where the light was good.

艾梅琳的指示相對清楚，但雷木斯為了保險起見做了一些自己的調整。他用最後的煙草贈送了她一些報酬，並向她保證保密，雖然她說她不會告訴任何人，因為她非常喜歡這個主意——她也喜歡馬克·博蘭。接下來的幾天，他在圖書館做了預備工作，隱藏在他最喜歡的一個靠近後窗的桌子上，那裡光線很好。

Friday morning, he woke early - earlier than James, even - borrowed the invisibility cloak and made sure everything was in place. He made a mental note to get better at setting timing spells as he yawned his way through the halls, tapping each portrait, statue and suit of armour with his wand.

星期五早晨，他早早醒來——甚至比詹姆斯還要早——借用了隱形斗篷，確保一切就位。他在穿過走廊時打了個哈欠，心裡記下要提高設置定時咒語的技術，並用魔杖敲了敲每幅畫像、雕像和盔甲。

By the time everyone else was beginning to wake up, Remus had finished, and was snoozing in an armchair in the common room.

當其他人開始醒來時，雷木斯已經完成了，正坐在公共休息室的一張扶手椅上打盹。

“Morning, Moony!” James woke him cheerily, in full quidditch kit, broom in hand.

“早安，月亮！”詹姆斯高高興興地叫醒他，穿著完整的魁地奇裝備，手裡拿著掃帚。

“Mm morning…”

“嗯，早安……”

“See you in Charms!” He called as he exited through the portrait hole. Remus sat up straight and listened intently.

“在魅力課上見！”詹姆斯邊走出畫像洞邊喊道。雷木斯坐直身子，專心地聽著。

Quiet… footsteps… James whistling… then… yes! The fat lady began to sing in a high falsetto;

安靜……腳步聲……詹姆斯吹著口哨……然後……是的！胖夫人開始以高音假聲唱起來；

“ Ride it on out like a bird in the sky ways

Ride it on out like you were a bird

Fly it all out like an eagle in a sunbeam

Ride it on out like you were a bird…”

“像天上的小鳥一樣騎行

像你是只小鳥一樣騎行

像陽光中的鷹一樣飛翔

像你是隻小鳥一樣騎行……”

“What the fuck?!” James exclaimed.

“這他媽的是什麼？！”詹姆斯驚叫道。

Remus grinned and punched the air. It worked.

雷木斯咧嘴一笑，揮舞了一下拳頭。成功了。

The rest of the morning was delightful chaos. Every portrait in the castle had begun to sing ‘Ride a White Swan’, on repeat - and not just the portraits. Every radio, gramophone, record player, statue - anything that could make a noise was now tunefully blaring Marc Bolan’s greatest hit.

早上的其餘時間充滿了愉快的混亂。城堡中的每幅畫像都開始重複唱《Ride a White Swan》——而不僅僅是畫像。每台收音機、留聲機、唱片播放器、雕像——任何能發出聲音的東西現在都在和諧地播放馬克·博蘭的最偉大作品。

The best part was that most of the muggle born students were singing along too, as it was such a catchy song.

最棒的是，大多數麻瓜出生的學生也在跟著唱，因為這首歌實在太上口了。

The racket was so bad in the end, that McGonagall announced lessons would be cancelled for the day while the teachers worked out how to stop the singing - Remus had added a security measure which meant that ‘Silencio’ only resulted in a volume increase.

最後喧鬧得如此厲害，以至於麥格教授宣布當天的課程取消，讓老師們想辦法停止歌唱——雷木斯加了一個安全措施，這意味著‘Silencio’只能使音量增大。

Sirius was thrilled, of course.

小天狼星當然非常高興。

“Who’d you think did it?” Peter asked, excitedly at the breakfast table.

“你覺得是誰做的？”彼得在早餐桌上興奮地問道。

In the background some sixth year girls were chanting along with the tinny baritone of the armour;

在背景中，一些六年級的女孩們在跟著盔甲的尖銳男低音一起吟唱；

“ Wear a tall hat like a druid in the old days

Wear a tall hat and a tattooed gown

Ride a white swan like the people of the Beltane

Wear your hair long, babe you can't go wrong...”

“像古時的德魯伊一樣戴著高帽

穿上高帽和紋身的長袍

像貝爾坦的人民一樣騎著白天鵝

留著長髮，寶貝，你不會錯的……”

“I don’t need to think, I know.” Sirius said, smugly.

“我不需要思考，我知道。”小天狼星得意地說。

Remus smiled. Mary leaned over eagerly,

雷木斯微笑了。瑪麗興奮地靠過來，

“Who?!”

“誰？！”

“Prongs, obviously!” Sirius said, “Probably trying to make it up to me, about the party.”

“當然是詹姆斯！”小天狼星說，“可能是想彌補我關於派對的事。”

Remus’s stomach sank. The idiot.

雷木斯的胃部沉了下來。這傢伙。

“Blimey,” Mary said, “James? By himself?” She looked skeptical. Good old Mary.

“天啊，”瑪麗說，“詹姆斯？自己一個人？”她看起來有些懷疑。好老瑪麗。

“Amazing, right?” Sirius kept saying, “I didn’t even think Prongs knew any T-Rex songs!”

“真了不起，不是嗎？”小天狼星不停地說，“我甚至沒想到詹姆斯會知道任何T-Rex的歌曲！”

“Mm.” Remus said, irritably, “Funny thing, that.”

“嗯。”雷木斯不耐煩地說，“這真有趣。”

“What’s up with you?” Mary nudged him, “I thought you liked T-rex!”

“你怎麼了？”瑪麗推了推他，“我以為你喜歡T-rex！”

“I do.” Remus replied, tight lipped. He stood up. “If lessons are cancelled, I s’pose I’ll go and catch up on some homework.”

“我喜歡。”雷木斯回答，緊閉嘴唇。他站了起來。“如果課程取消了，我想我會去補補作業。”

Sirius looked up, confused.

小天狼星抬頭看著他，困惑不解。

“I thought we were going to - er - play chess?” Remus shrugged,

“我以為我們要——呃——下棋？”雷木斯耸了耸肩，

“Not in the mood.” He left quickly, before his annoyance became too obvious.

“沒心情。”他迅速離開，免得他的煩惱變得太明顯。

He did go to the library, of course (it was the only quiet place in the castle) but he couldn’t concentrate on anything - plus, someone had dared to sit in his favourite seat. They were only two second years, and Gryffindors too - if he wanted to play the marauder card he could easily get them to move. But he was in the mood to suffer in silence, so he picked a lesser desk.

他當然去了圖書館（那是城堡裡唯一安靜的地方），但他無法集中精力做任何事——而且，有人敢坐在他最喜歡的位置上。他們只是兩個二年級的學生，還是格蘭芬多的——如果他想用流氓牌，他可以輕易地讓他們讓開。但他想要默默忍受，所以他選了一張較差的桌子。

Someone had carved something into the wood - who knew how long ago, everything in this damn castle was so old. It was a poem - a few lines of adolescent doggerel.

有人在木頭上刻了些東西——誰知道那是多麼久以前的事，這該死的城堡裡的一切都那麼古老。那是一首詩——幾行青春期的粗俗詩句。

Never kiss your lover at the garden gate

Love is blind - but your neighbours ain’t!

雷木斯哼了一聲，儘管他自己。真愚蠢。甚至押韻都不完整。

“Alright, Moody?”

“好吧，穆迪？”

Remus looked up to see Sirius sauntering towards him, weaving smoothly between the big study desks. A group of girls sitting behind Remus tittered noisily. Remus slouched down further in his seat, folding his arms.

雷木斯抬頭看到小天狼星正悠閒地朝他走來，在大學習桌之間自如地穿梭。坐在雷木斯後面的幾個女孩嘻嘻哈哈。雷木斯在座位上更深地縮了下來，雙臂交叉。

“I’m busy.” He grunted, flipping open the nearest book to a random page.

“我很忙。”他咕噥道，翻開最近的一本書到隨機一頁。

“Mm, you look it.” Sirius grabbed a chair, spun it around and straddled it, folding his arms along the back and rested his chin on them, staring at Remus in that annoying way, with that annoying grin.

“嗯，你看起來是的。”小天狼星抓起一張椅子，旋轉過來，跨坐在椅子上，雙臂放在椅背上，將下巴靠在上面，以那種煩人的方式、帶著煩人的笑容盯著雷木斯。

“Go away.” Remus said, looking at his book.

“走開。”雷木斯說，看著他的書。

“Moony.” Sirius smiled, “It was you, wasn’t it?”

“月亮。”小天狼星笑著說，“是你，是不是？”

Remus shrugged. Sirius snorted, “You twat, why didn’t you just say so?!”

雷木斯耸了耸肩。小天狼星哼了一聲，“你這個傻瓜，為什麼不直接說呢？！”

“Didn’t feel like it.”

“沒那麼想。”

“Ok…”

“好吧……”

“I dunno.”

“我不知道。”

“Could it be that you are completely mental, in addition to being a moody git?”

“難道你除了是個情緒化的傢伙，還完全瘋了嗎？”

“Bugger off.” Remus was starting to smile. He hated that Sirius could always do that. Sirius gave a little sigh.

“滾開。”雷木斯開始微笑。他討厭小天狼星總是能做到這一點。小天狼星嘆了口氣。

“Y’know, Moony, if you insist on being so secretive all the time, misunderstandings will happen…”

“你知道，月亮，如果你總是堅持保密，誤會就會發生……”

“I know.” Remus felt uncomfortable. He wasn’t used to Sirius being the logical one. “Sorry.” His shoulders sank and he looked down nervously. “Do you like it, though?”

“我知道。”雷木斯感到不安。他不習慣小天狼星變得如此理智。“對不起。”他的肩膀垂了下來，他緊張地低下頭。“你喜歡嗎？”

“Of course I like it you idiot!” Sirius exclaimed, slapping his hand in the desk. “It’s incredible, Remus. Thank you. I...” Sirius pinked slightly, “I really love it.”

“當然喜歡，你這個傻瓜！”小天狼星驚呼道，拍了拍桌子。“這真了不起，雷木斯。謝謝你。我……”小天狼星臉頰微紅，“我真的很喜歡。”

“You do?” Remus looked up at him.

“你喜歡嗎？”雷木斯抬頭看著他。

“I do. I’ve always loved your magic. It's so… you.”

“我喜歡。我一直喜歡你的魔法。它太……像你了。”

“Shut up.” Remus felt himself blushing. It was even harder not to smile, every muscle in his face was conspiring against him.

“閉嘴。”雷木斯感覺自己臉紅了。更難不笑了，每一塊臉上的肌肉都在和他作對。

He kicked Sirius’s foot under the table. Sirius kicked him back.

他在桌子下踢了踢小天狼星的腳。小天狼星踢了他一腳。

 

Chapter 123: Seventh Year: Darkness Falls 

 

Friday 4th November 1977 - 2:00 AM in Gryffindor Tower

“I think there’s something to the colour changing idea.” James slurred, using his goblet to gesture wildly. Thankfully, it was empty, and didn’t spill.
“我覺得顏色變化的主意還不錯。”詹姆斯含糊地說，揮舞著他的酒杯。幸好它是空的，沒有灑出來。

“Nah, it’s too obvious,” Sirius shook his head, just as drunk as James, but handling himself remarkably well, for once.
“嗯，這太明顯了，”小天狼星搖了搖頭，和詹姆斯一樣醉，但這次處理得相當好。

“Besides,” Lily yawned, from where she sat on the floor, head nodding against James’s knee. “What do we change? Their robes?”
“再說，”莉莉打了個哈欠，坐在地板上，頭靠在詹姆斯的膝蓋上。“我們改變什麼？他們的袍子？”

“Their whole dormitory!” Mary suggested, the only one still dancing, winding her arms slowly over her head and rolling her hips to a sultry Nina Simone track. “Complete makeover! Bright pink!”
“他們整個宿舍！”瑪麗提議，唯一一個仍在跳舞的人，慢慢地將雙臂繞過頭部，臀部隨著性感的妮娜·西蒙曲目擺動。“完全改造！亮粉色！”

“Why pink, though?” Sirius said, “Some people might like pink.”
“為什麼是粉色？”小天狼星說，“有些人可能喜歡粉色。”

“Ha, on your own, Black!” Marlene pulled a face at him. She was sitting upside down in an armchair, her legs dangling over the back, long blonde hair touching the floor. Her eyes were fixed on Mary moving in front of the fireplace.
“哈，就你自己，布萊克！”瑪琳對他做了個鬼臉。她坐在一張倒置的扶手椅上，腿垂在椅背上，長長的金髮觸及地面。她的目光固定在瑪麗在壁爐前移動的身影上。

They were the last few standing after Sirius’s eighteenth birthday party, which had been as uproarious and over the top as usual. The only non-seventh year remaining was Christopher, who looked like he was struggling to keep his eyes open, but held on valiantly, taking notes for the Slytherin prank which they were currently brainstorming.
在小天狼星的十八歲生日派對後，他們是最後幾個站著的人，派對一如既往地喧鬧而過火。唯一剩下的非七年級生是克里斯托弗，他看起來像是努力保持清醒，但勇敢地堅持著，為他們正在頭腦風暴的斯萊特林惡作劇做筆記。

“How would we even get hold of their robes, though?” Peter asked, fiddling with the label on his beer bottle, “We had the same problem in first year, remember? With the itching powder.”
“我們怎麼弄到他們的袍子？”彼得問道，擺弄著啤酒瓶上的標籤，“我們在第一年也遇到過這個問題，記得嗎？用止癢粉。”

“Oh yeah,” James nodded, “That’s right - it was easier to sneak into their common room than it was to work out how the house elves organise the laundry…”
“哦，對了，”詹姆斯點了點頭，“沒錯——偷偷進入他們的公共休息室比搞清楚家養小精靈如何整理洗衣更容易……”

“How did you sneak in?” Marlene asked, frowning, “You can’t have perfected an invisibility spell by the age of eleven…”
“你是怎麼偷偷進去的？”瑪琳問道，皺著眉頭，“你不可能在十一歲時就把隱形咒語弄得那麼完美……”

“Ask us no questions and we shall tell you no lies, McKinnon.” Sirius winked at her. He was watching Mary dance too, his eyes shining with intoxication. “Anyway, we’ve decided not to do it.”
“不要問我們問題，我們不會告訴你謊言的，麥金農。”小天狼星對她眨了眨眼。他也在看瑪麗跳舞，眼中閃爍著醉意。“總之，我們決定不做了。”

“You decided.” James corrected.
“是你決定的。”詹姆斯糾正道。

“It’s my birthday!”
“今天是我的生日！”

“Not anymore, it isn’t,” Peter threw a cushion at him. Sirius threw one back, then James launched another, and soon enough they were all drunkenly flinging cushions back and forth, giggling dopily.
“現在不是了，”彼得朝他扔了一個墊子。小天狼星扔回一個，然後詹姆斯又扔了一個，很快他們都醉醺醺地來回扔墊子，傻笑著。

“Right,” Marlene laughed, after deflecting a big round velvet one, “I’m off to bed.” She placed her hands on the carpet and flipped forward neatly. She brushed her jeans as she got up, a bit wobbly on her feet, then headed for the girls’ dorm.
“對了，”瑪琳笑道，在擋住了一個大圓形天鵝絨墊子後，“我要上床了。”她把手放在地毯上，利索地翻了個身。她起身時刷了刷牛仔褲，腳步有些搖晃，然後向女生宿舍走去。

“Noo,” Mary grabbed her around the waist, “Don’t go, Marls, dance with meee!”
“不要，”瑪麗抓住她的腰，“不要走，瑪爾斯，和我跳舞吧！”

Marlene laughed lightly, but Remus caught an odd flash of annoyance in Marlene’s usually placid face as she gently unwound herself from Mary and backed away.
瑪琳輕笑了一下，但雷木斯注意到瑪琳平時平靜的臉上閃過一絲奇怪的不悅，她輕輕地從瑪麗身上解開，退後了一步。

“I’m sure one of the boys will oblige.” She said, shortly, “Night, all!”
“我相信會有男孩願意的。”她簡短地說，“晚安，大家！”

“Night!” They chorused back. Remus vaguely wondered what was going on between the two best friends, but he was too drunk and sleepy to dwell on it very long.
“晚安！”他們齊聲回答。雷木斯模糊地想知道這兩個好朋友之間發生了什麼事，但他太醉了，太困了，無法長時間琢磨這個問題。

“I think I’ll go up, too.” Christopher was already on his feet, as though he had been waiting for someone else to admit defeat so that he wasn’t the first. “Don’t decide anything without me, though!”
“我想我也該上去了。”克里斯托弗已經站了起來，好像他在等其他人先認輸，以免自己成為第一個。“不過，不要在我不在的時候做決定！”

“I really don’t think anyone’s going to formulate a plan tonight.” Lily yawned again. “See you tomorrow, Chris.”
“我真的不認為今晚會有人制定計劃。”莉莉又打了個哈欠。“明天見，克里斯。”

“Night.” The younger boy waved at all of them in his awkward, cheery way.
“晚安。”那個年輕的男孩以他那笨拙而愉快的方式向他們揮手。

“If no one wants to dance with me,” Mary sighed, moving to turn off the record player, “I s’pose I’d better get in some beauty sleep too.”
“如果沒有人想和我跳舞，”瑪麗嘆了口氣，轉身去關掉唱片機，“我想我也該好好睡一覺了。”

“And me,” Peter got up, tossing back the dregs of his drink.
“我也是，”彼得站起來，將杯中的酒渣一飲而盡。

“And me--” Lily was getting up, when James pulled her into his lap, hugging her close.
“我也是——”莉莉正要起身，詹姆斯卻把她拉到自己腿上，緊緊擁抱著她。

“Don’t go yet…”
“別走……”

“Mmm…” She curled into him, sleepily, and they became one unit, cocooned in the big leather armchair. Remus blinked at them blearily and marvelled once again that they had all teased James for years about his certainty that he and Lily were made for each other. Funny how things work out.
“嗯……”她迷迷糊糊地依偎在他懷裡，他們成為一體，蜷縮在大皮扶手椅裡。雷木斯迷迷糊糊地看著他們，再次驚訝於他們這些年來如何戲弄詹姆斯，對他和莉莉是天作之合的確定。事情真有趣。

“Absolutely obscene.” Sirius tutted, pulling a face at the couple. “Well, if that’s the way this party’s going, I’ll follow Wormtail’s example… coming, Moony?”
“真是太猥褻了。”小天狼星咂了咂嘴，對那對情侶做了個鬼臉。“好吧，如果派對就這樣進行下去，我就跟著蟲尾的例子……你來嗎，月亮？”

“Yep.” Remus got up off the sofa they had been sharing (maintaining a polite and inconspicuous distance, as they had done all evening).
“嗯。”雷木斯從他們一直共享的沙發上站起來（保持著禮貌而不引人注意的距離，就像他們整晚所做的那樣）。

They followed Peter up, and found he was locked in the bathroom, noisily brushing his teeth and gargling. Remus was exhausted, and sat on the end of his bed to wait, yawning and rubbing his eyes.
他們跟著彼得上樓，發現他被鎖在浴室裡，吵吵嚷嚷地刷牙漱口。雷木斯感到非常疲倦，坐在床邊等著，打著哈欠，揉著眼睛。

“Good birthday?” He asked Sirius.
“生日過得怎麼樣？”他問小天狼星。

“Brilliant.” Sirius grinned back.
“太棒了。”小天狼星笑著回答。

“Good.”
“那就好。”

“...If we wait until Pete’s asleep--”
“……如果我們等到彼得睡著了——”

“Bad idea, Padfoot, especially if James isn’t back yet. Anyway, I’m knackered.” He yawned again, as if to prove his point, “Another time.” This was a bit of a white lie. After too many near misses, Remus had been trying to limit the amount of time he spent in Sirius’s bed. It seemed so sneaky and dishonest.
“主意不好，腳墊，尤其是詹姆斯還沒回來的時候。總之，我累壞了。”他又打了個哈欠，似乎是為了證明他的觀點，“改天再說。”這有點小謊言。在經歷了太多差點發生的情況後，雷木斯一直在嘗試限制他在小天狼星床上的時間。這看起來太狡猾和不誠實了。

“Another time.” Sirius sighed. “Just… it’s my birthday, and I’ve barely seen you.”
“改天再說。”小天狼星嘆了口氣。“只是……今天是我的生日，我幾乎沒見過你。”

“I’ve been here all day!” This was true, of course - but it was true of all of the marauders, and Lily.
“我整天都在這裡！”這當然是真的——但這對所有流氓們和莉莉來說都是事實。

“You know what I mean.” Sirius shook his head, impatiently.
“你知道我意思的。”小天狼星不耐煩地搖了搖頭。

Remus did know, but he didn’t have a response that would please Sirius. This same issue kept coming up, and, quite frankly, Remus was getting sick of it. Especially as there was no possible way to solve it until Sirius finally made his mind up. Tired, and getting more irritable by the second, Remus got up and began to change quickly into his pyjamas.
雷木斯知道他的意思，但他沒有什麼回應能讓小天狼星滿意。這個問題一再出現，坦白說，雷木斯開始厭倦它。尤其是，直到小天狼星最終決定之前，沒有任何解決辦法。雷木斯感到疲倦，越來越煩躁，站起來開始迅速換上睡衣。

Sirius stood up and came over to him, crossing the beam of moonlight streaking the ancient floorboards. “You’re not avoiding me, are you?” He asked.
小天狼星站起來走向他，穿越了劃過古老地板的月光束。“你不是在躲著我吧？”他問道。

“No!” Remus muttered, “I’m just busy. I’ve got a lot on.” If he’d said it once, he’d said it a thousand times.
“沒有！”雷木斯喃喃道，“我只是忙。我有很多事。”如果他說過一次，他就說過一千次。

“Ok.” Sirius said, slowly. “Just, y’know. Lily and James are busy too, but they still seem to find time to--”
“好的。”小天狼星慢慢地說，“只是，你知道的。莉莉和詹姆斯也很忙，但他們似乎還是能找到時間……”

“We’re not Lily and James, though, are we?!” Remus raised his eyebrow. Honestly.
“但我們不是莉莉和詹姆斯，不是嗎？！”雷木斯挑了挑眉毛。說真的。

Sirius looked hurt.
小天狼星看起來受傷了。

“No… but,”
“不……但是，”

“That was your decision.” Remus said, buttoning his nightshirt. “What was it you said? Not to ‘scream it from the rooftops’. I thought you wanted it this way.”
“那是你的決定。”雷木斯說，扣上睡衣的扣子。“你說了什麼？不要‘從屋頂上大喊出來’。 我以為你想要這樣。”

“I…” Sirius looked lost.
“我……”小天狼星看起來迷茫。

Remus rolled his eyes, exasperated.
雷木斯翻了個白眼，顯得很厭煩。

“You said you needed time. I’m giving it to you. But you can’t keep whinging about it.”
“你說你需要時間。我在給你時間。但是你不能一直抱怨。”

Sirius withdrew. Remus knew he had won, but there was no joy in the victory.
小天狼星退後了。雷木斯知道他贏了，但勝利中沒有快樂。

Fortunately, Peter chose that moment to exit the bathroom. He made a beeline for his bed, head down, waving a lazy hand at them,
幸運的是，彼得選擇了這個時候出浴室。他直奔自己的床，低著頭，懶洋洋地向他們揮手，

“Night, lads…”
“晚安，伙計們……”

“Night Pete!” They both replied, cheerily.
“晚安，彼得！”他們都愉快地回答。

 

Saturday 26th November 1977
1977年11月26日，星期六

They could get over little tiffs like that in those days - they could wake up the next morning and both be ready to wipe the slate clean. At least until the next time. In the end, their desire for each other, their affection - and most of all their friendship - seemed strong enough to win out over any other problems. It was a state of being that Remus would later learn they were taking very much for granted.
那時候，他們能夠克服這樣的小爭執——第二天醒來時，雙方都準備好重頭開始。至少直到下一次。最終，他們對彼此的渴望、感情——最重要的是他們的友誼——似乎足夠強大，可以戰勝任何其他問題。雷木斯後來才知道，他們對此是多麼的視而不見。

On top of this, there was a war on, which may have explained quite a bit. Everyone was slightly melodramatic, and nerves were raw all round. The headlines weren’t helping:
此外，還有一場戰爭，這或許解釋了很多問題。每個人都有點戲劇化，神經緊繃。頭條新聞也沒有幫助：

MINISTRY RAIDS THREE HOUSES IN SEARCH FOR FORBIDDEN ARTEFACTS
部搜尋三戶人家尋找被禁文物

THIRD VAMPIRE ATTACK IN TWO WEEKS
兩週內第三起吸血鬼襲擊

MINISTER JENKINS STEPS DOWN IN WAKE OF DISAPPEARANCES
傑金斯部長因失蹤事件辭職

WEREWOLF REGISTRY ‘DANGEROUSLY UNDER-MANAGED’ MINISTRY INSIDERS REVEAL
部內部人士透露，狼人登記處管理不善

And that was only this week’s papers. Something was going on with the Slytherins too - more than the usual classist nonsense. Over the summer - or perhaps before that - a new hierarchy seemed to have formed, creating obvious divisions in the most controversial Hogwarts house.
這只是本週的報紙。斯萊特林似乎也有些事情——比平常的階級主義廢話還要多。整個夏天——或者更早之前——似乎形成了一個新的階層，明顯劃分了霍格沃茲爭議最大的學院。

Regulus Black had always carried a certain amount of clout, of course. The heir to the most noble, exclusive and wealthy pureblood family had been popular amongst his ambitious peer group since his very first day of school. In turn, he had surrounded himself with a faction of pureblood students who seemed to grow nastier by the year. Except for Barty Crouch Jr, perhaps, who had been incredibly nasty even as a little boy.
當然，Regulus Black一直有一定的影響力。這位最貴族、最排外和最富有的純血家族的繼承人自入學第一天起就在他那有野心的同齡人中頗受歡迎。反過來，他周圍聚集了一群純血學生，這些人似乎每年都變得更壞。也許除了Barty Crouch Jr，他從小就非常壞。

Now in his sixth year, Regulus did nothing to dispel the rumours that he was not only a death eater, but in regular communication with Lord Voldemort himself. In fact, Regulus seemed to rather enjoy his increased powers, which (according to Christopher, who shared several classes with him) even some of the teachers were observing. He held himself differently. He walked with his back straight, his chin raised, a permanent smirk affixed to his pale face. Remus could hardly recognised the nervous, troubled boy that Sirius had once called ‘Reggie’.
現在已經六年級的Regulus並沒有做任何事來消除他不僅是食死徒，而且與伏地魔本人經常聯繫的謠言。事實上，Regulus似乎相當享受他增加的權力，（根據與他共用幾門課的Christopher所說），甚至有些老師也在觀察。他的姿態不同了。他走路時背挺得直直的，下巴抬起，臉上永遠帶著冷笑。雷木斯幾乎認不出小天狼星曾經稱為“Reggie”的那個緊張、煩惱的男孩。

Regulus was not stupid. He had never once had a detention, in all his time at school, and was as bright as his older brother when it came to his lessons. Still, unpleasant things seemed to happen to everyone around him. A fourth year Hufflepuff who (rumour had it) knocked over an inkwell on Regulus’s desk while he was studying in the library was found two days later locked in a broom cupboard in the dungeons, white as a sheet and completely mute. He had been sent home to recover and had not been seen since.
Regulus並不愚蠢。在整個學校期間，他從未被拘留過，在課堂上，他和他哥哥一樣聰明。儘管如此，似乎所有人周圍都會發生不愉快的事情。據說，有一名四年級的赫奇帕奇學生在圖書館學習時碰翻了Regulus的墨水瓶，兩天後被發現在地牢的一個掃帚櫃裡，臉色蒼白，完全失聲。他被送回家療養，從那以後就沒有再見過他。

The Ravenclaw quidditch team practice overran by half an hour one afternoon due to a mix up with the rota - meaning that the Slytherin team’s practice had to be pushed back to the following day. The next time the Ravenclaws met they had to cancel their practice altogether, as well as postpone an upcoming match with Gryffindor, because nobody was able to touch their brooms without receiving hundreds of tiny splinters, which could only be removed by Madam Pomfrey.
有天下午，由於輪值表混亂，拉文克勞魁地奇隊的練習時間超過了半小時——這意味著斯萊特林隊的練習不得不推遲到第二天。下次拉文克勞隊見面時，他們不得不完全取消練習，並推遲即將與格蘭芬多的比賽，因為沒有人能夠在不受到數百個微小刺痛的情況下觸摸他們的掃帚，而這些刺只能由Pomfrey夫人來去除。

And the words ‘mudbloods get out!’ had been magically carved into the chalkboard in the Muggle Studies classroom, so that the lessons had to be moved while the teachers investigated.
而“麻瓜種滾出去！”的字樣被魔法刻在麻瓜研究教室的黑板上，導致課堂不得不轉移，老師們進行調查。

Of course, no one ever questioned Regulus, and, as there were no witnesses to any of these crimes, nothing could be done. Everybody knew, though, everybody with any stake in the war. The increasing cruelty and prevalence of such attacks had thrown a shadow over the castle which every student felt now, if they hadn’t in previous years.
當然，沒有人質疑Regulus，由於這些罪行沒有目擊者，無法採取任何行動。然而，每個與戰爭有關的人都知道。這些攻擊的殘酷性和普遍性日益增加，給城堡投下了一層陰影，現在每個學生都感受到了這種陰影，如果他們以前沒有感受到的話。

It might have been the reason that so many people wanted to help the marauders plan their next prank. Though that also had a lot to do with Christopher.
這可能是為什麼這麼多人想幫助流氓們策劃他們的下一個惡作劇的原因。雖然這也與Christopher有很大關係。

“Did you tell everyone?!” Remus sighed, exasperated, as a third year scuttled out of the study room, flushed and grinning after offering his services to the cause (‘I blow stuff up all the time in potions!’ he had explained, without a trace of irony. Remus had assured him that James and Sirius would be thrilled to hear it.)
“你告訴了所有人嗎？！”雷木斯嘆氣，顯得很厭煩，一個三年級生從自習室裡逃出來，臉紅紅的，笑著說要為這個事情效勞（“我在魔藥課上經常把東西炸飛！”他解釋說，毫無諷刺之意。雷木斯向他保證，詹姆斯和小天狼星聽了肯定會很高興。）

“I just mentioned it to a friend…” Christopher replied sheepishly. “You know, a lot of people have got it in for Slytherin, and it’s always a good idea to get a wide range of experience…”
“我只是提到了一個朋友…”Christopher尷尬地回答。“你知道，很多人都對斯萊特林有意見，而且獲得廣泛的經驗總是個好主意…”

“The marauders do not outsource their pranks.” Remus sniffed, haughtily as they made their way back towards the tower.
“流氓們不外包他們的惡作劇。”雷木斯傲慢地哼了一聲，然後他們朝塔樓走去。

“It’s not outsourcing, ” Christopher countered, “It’s…. er… collaboration.”
“這不是外包，”Christopher反駁道，“這是…呃…合作。”

“We don’t collaborate, either!”
“我們也不合作！”

“Why not? Isn’t that what we’re supposed to be fighting for? Inclusion?”
“為什麼不呢？這不是我們應該為之奮鬥的嗎？包容？”

“Inclusion, yes. Equality, yes. Prank Planning Co-operatives? No.”
“包容，是的。平等，是的。惡作劇策劃合作社？不。”

Christopher snorted with laughter. Remus smiled. Christopher had an awkward, braying laugh, like a donkey. It was pretty glorious to witness.
Christopher忍不住笑了。雷木斯微笑著。Christopher的笑聲尷尬而刺耳，像驢叫。這真是壯觀的景象。

“So,” Christopher wheezed, catching his breath and wiping his eyes, “What are your Christmas plans? staying here again?”
“那麼，”Christopher喘著氣，擦著眼睛說，“你的聖誕節計劃是什麼？還是留在這裡？”

“Mm, maybe… or going to the Potter’s. All hangs on whether or not James is going to spend it with Lily’s family.”
“嗯，也許…或者去Potter家。一切取決於詹姆斯是否會和Lily的家人一起過。”

“Oh, Merlin, don’t,” Christopher pulled a face, “I think I preferred it when they hated each other. Prefect meetings are so boring now, they spend the whole time talking each other up. Enough to give you toothache.”
“哦，梅林，不要這樣，”Christopher扮了個鬼臉，“我覺得他們互相討厭的時候更好。現在的級長會議太無聊了，他們整個會議都在互相吹捧。夠讓你牙疼的。”

“I think it’s nice,” Remus said. “James has been bonkers about Lily since second year, if he can finally tell her how amazing she is instead of telling us, then all the better.”
“我覺得這挺好，”雷木斯說。“詹姆斯從二年級開始就對Lily瘋狂著迷，如果他能最終告訴她她有多棒，而不是告訴我們，那就更好了。”

“Yeah, I s’pose you’re right. We should all be so lucky.” Christopher sighed.
“是啊，我想你是對的。我們都應該這麼幸運。”Christopher嘆了口氣。

They were quiet for a bit after that, just walking together. As they turned the next corner, Remus realised that they hadn’t passed anyone in a while. Fair enough, it was a Saturday, but it wasn’t a Hogsmeade weekend, and the weather was too poor for anyone to be outside.
之後他們安靜了一會兒，只是一起走著。當他們轉過下一個拐角時，雷木斯意識到他們已經有一段時間沒有遇到任何人了。這很正常，畢竟是星期六，但這不是霍格莫德的周末，天氣太差，沒有人會在外面。

Finally, a first year came hurrying towards them through an archway which led to the east wing. Her eyes were big and frightened, she looked up at the two older boys,
終於，一名一年級的學生匆忙穿過通往東翼的拱門朝他們走來。她的眼睛大而驚恐，她抬頭看著兩個大男孩，

“Ooh,” she squeaked, “Don’t go down there, it’s horrid!” and ran past them, presumably back to her house.
“哦，”她尖叫道，“不要往那邊走，那裡很可怕！”然後跑過他們，可能是回她的宿舍。

Chris and Remus looked at each other. Chris licked his lips, then squared his shoulders slightly, setting his mouth.
Chris和雷木斯互相看了一眼。Chris舔了舔嘴唇，然後稍微挺起肩膀，擺出決心的樣子。

“I am a prefect… so I’d better…”
“我是級長…所以我最好…”

“I’ll come with you.” Remus patted his shoulder. Christopher nodded, looking very relieved. Remus wished James was there - or Sirius.
“我和你一起去。”雷木斯拍了拍他的肩膀。Christopher點了點頭，顯得很放心。雷木斯希望詹姆斯在那裡——或者小天狼星在那裡。

They walked side by side through the archway, and found themselves enveloped in total darkness. It was the middle of the afternoon, and Remus knew there were usually windows on this corridor, and even at night it was never this dark. Something was very wrong.
他們並肩走過拱門，發現自己被完全的黑暗包圍。當時是下午，雷木斯知道這條走廊上通常有窗戶，即使在晚上也從未這麼黑。出了大問題。

“Lumos,” they both whispered, lighting their wand tips and holding them up, casting beams of white light across the grey flagstones, the blood red tapestries, the glinting suits of armour. It seemed empty. Christopher took a brave step ahead of Remus, clearing his throat,
“光亮如晝，”他們倆輕聲說著，點亮了魔杖尖，舉起來，把白色的光束投射在灰色的石板、血紅的掛毯和閃閃發光的盔甲上。似乎是空的。Christopher勇敢地邁步走在雷木斯前面，清了清嗓子，

“Hello? Is anyone here?” He called.
“你好？這裡有人嗎？”他喊道。

No response, utter silence. Christopher turned around to look at Remus, squinting and raising an arm to his eyes against the brightness of Remus’s wand light, “Perhaps you ought to go for a teacher?”
沒有回應，完全的寂靜。Christopher轉身看向雷木斯，眯著眼，舉起手臂遮住雷木斯魔杖的光亮，“也許你應該去找老師？”

“Come back with me, then,” Remus said.
“那麼跟我一起回去，”雷木斯說。

“I…”
“我…”

There was a noise. A nasty, crawling, slimy squelch, just ahead of Christopher. They both whipped around and aimed their lights at it, but found only an empty corner. Christopher’s heart was pounding hard, he reeked of adrenaline and terror. “There’s something in here…” he whispered, fearfully.
有一個聲音。一種令人厭惡的、爬行的、黏糊糊的嘎吱聲，就在Christopher的前方。他們倆迅速轉身，將光亮對準那裡，但只發現一個空角落。Christopher的心臟劇烈跳動，他充滿了腎上腺素和恐懼的味道。“這裡有東西…”他恐懼地低語。

“Come on,” Remus said, “Let’s go and get help…”
“快點，”雷木斯說，“我們去找人幫忙…”

“I think it’s over there…” Christopher walked forward again, and Remus lost sight of him and had to go by smell. This was particularly disconcerting - Remus had never met a darkness so black that he could not see through it.
“我想它在那邊…”Christopher再次向前走，雷木斯失去了他的視線，不得不靠氣味來辨認方向。這特別讓人不安——雷木斯從未見過如此黑暗，甚至無法看穿。

“Chris…?” He reached forward, casting his light about.
“Chris…？”他向前伸手，把光亮投向四周。

“I’ve found it… it’s… no! Oh Merlin, no! No!” Christopher began to scream, somewhere further up the hall.
“我找到了…它是…不！哦，梅林，不！不！”Christopher開始尖叫，在走廊更遠的地方。

Without thinking, Remus bolted forward, following the terrible wails,
雷木斯不假思索地向前衝去，跟隨著可怕的哀嚎，

“Chris!”
“Chris！”

He almost tripped over him. Christopher was curled up on the floor, hands covering his head, rocking and sobbing. “What…?” Remus asked, trembling now, as Christopher pointed at it. Remus used his wand to follow his friend's shaking arm, finally throwing light on their tormentor. Remus almost screamed too.
他差點被他絆倒。Christopher蜷縮在地板上，雙手捂著頭，搖晃著哭泣。“什麼…？”雷木斯問道，此時全身顫抖，隨著Christopher指向那東西。雷木斯用魔杖順著他朋友顫抖的手臂，終於照亮了他們的折磨者。雷木斯也差點尖叫出聲。

A corpse - a horrible, rotting, shambling corpse was stumbling towards them through the velvet blackness. It slumped forward with a heavy stoop, reaching for Christopher. The eyes were intact, yellow and red – both vacant and ravenous. It still had most of its skin; a grotesque pallet of mottled grey and deep bruise purple. It moaned, a ghastly, rattling sound through crooked yellow teeth.
一具屍體——一具可怕的、腐爛的、蹣跚的屍體在天鵝絨般的黑暗中朝他們跌跌撞撞地走來。它彎著腰，向前傾斜，伸手去抓Christopher。眼睛完好無損，黃紅相間——既空洞又貪婪。它還有大部分的皮膚；一個怪誕的調色板，斑駁的灰色和深紫色。它呻吟著，通過彎曲的黃牙發出可怕的、嘎吱作響的聲音。

Remus raised his wand, and stood in front of Chris. He was about to fire a knockback jinx at it - the only thing he could think of at short notice - when it fixed its hungry eyes on him. In a second, it vanished.
雷木斯舉起魔杖，站在Chris前面。他正準備對它施放擊退咒——他能想到的唯一方法——就在這時，屍體用貪婪的眼神盯著他。瞬間，它消失了。

Remus blinked, gasping, and suddenly the hallway was filled with a pale, milky light, as a full moon rose before him. The scream died in his throat, and he was gripped with horror - how was it possible?! The moon was not due for a week! He had to run, he had to get away from Christopher, but… wait a minute.
雷木斯眨了眨眼，喘著氣，突然走廊充滿了淡淡的乳白色光芒，一輪滿月在他面前升起。尖叫聲在他的喉嚨裡消失，他被恐懼抓住——這怎麼可能？！滿月還有一個星期才來！他得跑，他得遠離Christopher，但…等等。

“I know what you are!” Remus’s terror turned to elation, as he raised his wand once more, and shouted out confidently; “Riddikulus!”
“我知道你是什麼！”雷木斯的恐懼變成了興奮，他再次舉起魔杖，自信地喊道：“滑稽滑稽！”

The moon began to expand and transform once more - this time into a huge white beach ball, which began to bounce and spring off the walls, before bursting into a cloud of soapy bubbles. Remus laughed, as loudly as he could under the circumstances, and the boggart retreated. He took his chance, and grabbed Christopher - still curled up, eyes closed tight - under the arm, dragging him back towards the archway as fast as he could.
月亮開始再次膨脹和變形——這次變成了一個巨大的白色沙灘球，它開始在牆上彈跳，然後變成了一片肥皂泡。雷木斯大笑著，在這種情況下盡可能大聲地笑，博格特退縮了。他抓住機會，抓住仍然蜷縮著、緊閉雙眼的Christopher的手臂，盡可能快地把他拖回拱門。

They came out the other side gasping and blinking hard in the light. Christopher was gripping Remus’s robes tightly, his breathing heavy, face ashen.
他們來到另一邊，在光線下氣喘吁吁地眨著眼。Christopher緊緊抓住雷木斯的袍子，呼吸沉重，臉色蒼白。

“Fuck.” Remus murmured, feeling pretty shaky himself.
“該死。”雷木斯低聲說，自己也覺得很不安。

“Th-th-that was a boggart!?” Christopher stutted.
“那-那-那是博格特！？”Christopher結巴地說。

“Yeah, yeah, it was… I’ve never seen one before, have you?”
“是的，是的，那是…我從來沒見過，你見過嗎？”

Chris shook his head. Remus patted his hands, willing him to let go.
Chris搖了搖頭。雷木斯拍了拍他的手，希望他放開。

“Hey, it’s ok. It wasn’t real, remember? C’mon, we have to tell someone, before anyone else runs into it…”
“嘿，沒事的。那不是真的，記得嗎？來吧，我們得告訴別人，在其他人碰到它之前…”

“I’ll go.” Chris said, getting some of his courage back, “I’ll go now… are you ok to wait here? In case someone comes?”
“我去。”Chris說，恢復了一些勇氣，“我現在就去…你可以在這裡等嗎？以防有人來？”

“Of course.” Remus nodded, “No one’s getting past me.” He grinned, trying to make light of it, but Christopher was still too shaken. He nodded grimly, and set off, still gripping his wand.
“當然。”雷木斯點點頭，“沒有人能從我這裡過去。”他笑了笑，試圖讓事情顯得輕鬆一些，但Christopher仍然太過震驚。他嚴肅地點點頭，然後出發了，仍然緊握著魔杖。

Alone, Remus reached into his deep robe pockets and pulled out the marauder’s map. He’d had it on him for a while now, out of concern that James might take a look one day and wonder which he and Sirius were sharing the bathroom so often. “I solemnly swear that I am up to no good,” he whispered, tapping the parchment.
獨自一人時，雷木斯伸手進入深袍口袋，拿出流氓地圖。他已經隨身帶了一段時間，擔心有一天詹姆斯會看一眼，然後想知道他和小天狼星為什麼這麼頻繁地共用浴室。“我鄭重宣誓我不懷好意，”他輕聲說，敲擊羊皮紙。

The map immediately sprang to life, ink spreading like vines across the page. Remus held it up to his eyes and frantically searched for the corridor with the boggart. There it was, and there he was, ‘Remus Lupin’, clearly marked out at one end.
地圖立刻活了起來，墨水像藤蔓一樣蔓延在頁面上。雷木斯把它舉到眼前，瘋狂地尋找著有博格特的走廊。它在那裡，他也在那裡，“雷木斯·盧平”，清楚地標記在一端。

He followed the length of it with his finger, it was completely empty; apparently boggarts did not show up, not enough substance, maybe. He reached the end, there was a second archway on the other side, he remembered, covered by a tapestry. Three people were waiting there, quite still. Barty Crouch Jr, Garrick Mulciber and... Remus’s stomach sank, though he was not all that surprised. Here it was; proof in black and white. Regulus Black.
他用手指沿著它的長度，完全是空的；顯然博格特沒有出現，可能沒有足夠的實質。他到達了盡頭，記得另一邊還有一個拱門，被掛毯覆蓋著。三個人靜靜地等在那裡。小巴蒂·克勞奇，加里克·穆爾西伯和…雷木斯的胃沉了下去，雖然他並不那麼驚訝。這就是了；黑白分明的證據。Regulus Black.

 

Chapter 124: Seventh Year: Christmas Part 1 

In a miserable twist of fate, the December 1977 full moon fell on Christmas Day. The marauders all agreed to stay at Hogwarts for the duration, with a plan to travel back to the Potter’s on Boxing Day. Lily made them all promise that they would meet up as soon as possible in Diagon Alley,
命運的悲慘扭曲，1977年12月的滿月正好落在聖誕節那天。流氓們都同意在霍格沃茲待一段時間，計劃在節禮日回到Potter家。Lily讓他們都保證會盡快在對角巷見面，

“It’s the only place my parents will let me go by myself,” she explained to Remus, “I wanted to come to the Potters too, but they’re protective and they haven’t met James yet.”
“這是我父母唯一允許我獨自去的地方，”她向Remus解釋，“我也想去Potter家，但他們很保護我，而且他們還沒見過James。”

“Why not invite James to yours?” Remus suggested. Lily bit her lip and shrugged.
“為什麼不邀請James去你家？”Remus建議。Lily咬了咬嘴唇，聳了聳肩。

“It’s just a bit tricky. Maybe for Easter break.”
“這有點麻煩。也許復活節假期可以。”

It was a cheerless Christmas, really. James was missing Lily, Peter obviously wished he was at home, not stuck at school, Sirius was anxious and jittery whenever he and Remus were in the same room with someone else, and Remus himself was grumpy and irritable, waiting for the moon to take hold.
這真是一個沉悶的聖誕節。James在想念Lily，Peter顯然希望他在家，而不是被困在學校，Sirius每次和Remus與其他人在同一個房間裡時都很焦慮和緊張，而Remus自己則是煩躁易怒，等待著滿月的到來。

They didn’t do anything very Christmassy, either, other than go down for lunch with the other students who had stayed. They had promised Mrs Potter not to exchange gifts until they could all be together.
他們也沒做什麼聖誕節的事情，除了和其他留下來的學生一起去吃午飯。他們答應Potter夫人不會交換禮物，直到他們都能在一起。

“I feel awful.” Remus sighed, as he wound his scarf around his neck, ready to start heading towards the shack ahead of his friends. “You lot should be at home. I could have stayed by myself – or used your attic again, Prongs.”
“我感覺糟透了。”Remus嘆了口氣，把圍巾繞在脖子上，準備在朋友們之前朝小屋走去。“你們應該在家。我可以自己留下來——或者再次用你的閣樓，Prongs。”

“Don’t be silly,” James shook his head manfully, “I know how bad it is for you, in the attic, tied down like that. The shack is the best place – at least we can all run about a bit.”
“別傻了，”James堅定地搖搖頭，“我知道你在閣樓裡被這樣綁著有多糟。小屋是最好的地方——至少我們都可以跑動一下。”

And he was right, of course. They all needed a good run, and in the morning, Remus woke up and looked at his friend’s rosy, grinning faces, and knew they all felt much better for it.
當然，他是對的。他們都需要好好跑一跑，到了早晨，Remus醒來，看著朋友們紅潤的笑臉，知道他們都感覺好多了。

They couldn’t leave immediately, of course, Madam Pomfrey would not allow it. Remus was prescribed his usual morning of sleep, and he hoped that the other marauders had taken the opportunity to do the same.
當然，他們不能立即離開，Pomfrey女士不允許。Remus按照慣例早上睡覺，他希望其他流氓們也抓住機會這樣做。

When he woke up in the infirmary, Sirius was sitting in the chair next to him, grinning, two suitcases at his feet.
當他在醫療翼醒來時，Sirius正坐在他旁邊的椅子上，笑著，腳邊有兩個行李箱。

“Ready when you are!” He said, cheerfully, and Remus felt a pang of guilt again. Sirius needed to get home to the Potters’ just as much as James did.
“隨時準備好！”他愉快地說，Remus又感到一陣內疚。Sirius和James一樣需要回Potter家。

“Have you packed for me?” Remus sat up, blinking, “Blimey.”
“你幫我收拾了嗎？”Remus坐起來，眨著眼睛，“天哪。”

“Of course I haven’t,” Sirius snorted, “Prongs did. I made sure he got the book on your bedside table, though.”
“當然沒有，”Sirius哼了一聲，“Prongs幫你收拾的。不過我確保他拿了你床頭桌上的書。”

Remus opened his mouth to speak, but Sirius raised a hand, “And the one under your pillow. Don’t worry, Moony, nothing gets past me.”
Remus張口想說話，但Sirius舉起手，“還有你枕頭下的那本。別擔心，月亮臉，沒什麼能瞞過我。”

“Cheers,” Remus smiled. “Just let me get dressed, then…”
“謝了，”Remus微笑著說。“那麼讓我穿好衣服…”

“Sure you’ll be ok to floo?” Sirius asked, as Remus swivelled out of the bed, his bare feet landing on the cold flagstones. He felt a bit weak and woozy, but no worse than usual. He nodded,
“你確定可以用飛路網嗎？”Sirius問道，當Remus從床上轉身下來，赤腳踩在冰冷的石板上。他感到有點虛弱和頭暈，但並不比平常更糟。他點點頭，

“Yeah. Apparated after a full moon once, remember?”
“嗯。記得嗎，有一次滿月後我還幻影移形過？”

“Ok. But you should say, if you don’t feel up to it.”
“好吧。但如果你覺得不行，你應該說。”

“I will. Pass my jeans, will you?”
“我會的。把我的牛仔褲遞給我，好嗎？”

Sirius complied. Remus dressed, slowly, checking his body with every stretch and turn, making sure everything was working as it should be. He was starving hungry, but willing to wait for Mrs Potter’s cooking. “Where are the others?” Remus asked, bending now to tie his shoelaces.
Sirius照辦了。Remus慢慢地穿好衣服，檢查每一個伸展和轉身，確保一切都正常運作。他餓得要命，但願意等著Potter夫人的烹飪。“其他人在哪？”Remus彎腰系鞋帶時問道。

“Common room,” Sirius replied. He held up his silver compact mirror, “I’m to let Prongs know when we’re on our way to McGonagall’s office, they’ll meet us.”
“公共休息室，”Sirius回答。他舉起他的銀色小鏡子，“我要在我們前往McGonagall辦公室的路上通知Prongs，他們會和我們會合。”

“Great.” Remus nodded. He stopped for a moment, dizzy again, and pretended to just be stretching.
“太好了。”Remus點點頭。他停了一會兒，再次頭暈，假裝只是在伸展。

“Moony?”
“月亮臉？”

“Mmm...?” Remus began his second shoe, concentrating very hard.
“嗯...？”Remus開始穿第二只鞋，非常專心。

“I’m going to tell Prongs, over Christmas.”
“我打算在聖誕節期間告訴Prongs。”

“What?!” He straightened up so suddenly that he had to grab Sirius’s arm to stop from wobbling over. His head swam, and he blinked a few times while equilibrium restored itself. “Tell… Prongs?”
“什麼？！”他突然挺直身子，不得不抓住Sirius的手臂以免自己搖晃倒下。他頭暈目眩，眨了幾次眼睛才恢復平衡。“告訴…Prongs？”

“Yeah.” Sirius looked very pale, his eyes big, “If it’s ok with you? I think I’d better.”
“是的。”Sirius看起來非常蒼白，眼睛很大，“如果你不介意的話？我覺得我最好這樣做。”

“Of course. Yeah. I mean. Wow. Why now?”
“當然可以。嗯。我是說。哇。為什麼現在？”

Sirius shrugged,
Sirius聳了聳肩，

“Something’s got to give. And I’m mental about you.”
“總得做些改變。而且我對你瘋狂。”

Remus’s face grew hot and he looked away. He nudged Sirius’s toe with his own,
Remus的臉變得火熱，他轉過頭。他用自己的腳輕輕碰了Sirius的腳趾，

“Shut up.”
“閉嘴。”

“Never.” Sirius poked his tongue out. “So it’s ok?”
“絕不。”Sirius吐了吐舌頭。“所以可以嗎？”

“Yeah. Of course it is. Will you let me know… when?”
“嗯。當然可以。你會讓我知道…什麼時候嗎？”

“Definitely. I want to pick the right time.”
“當然。我想選擇合適的時機。”

“Ok.”
“好吧。”

“I’ll go and get Pomfrey now, shall I?”
“那我現在去叫Pomfrey，好嗎？”

“Cheers.” And with that, Sirius jumped up and disappeared behind the screen. Remus sat still for a few minutes, stunned. Well. People could always surprise you.
“謝了。”說完，Sirius跳起來消失在屏風後面。Remus坐了幾分鐘，驚訝不已。嗯。人們總是會給你驚喜。

Boxing Day afternoon at the Potters was a welcome change of pace. Euphemia wanted to know all about Lily, and Fleamont wanted to know how the new Gryffindor quidditch line-up was working out. This led to a very long and involved argument between Peter, Sirius, James and his father, as they complained about the poor new chaser – something Eriksson – and fretted over whether or not this would be the end to Gryffindor’s six year winning streak.
在Potter家的節禮日下午是一個受歡迎的變換節奏。Euphemia想知道所有關於Lily的事情，而Fleamont想知道新的Gryffindor魁地奇陣容如何。這導致了Peter、Sirius、James和他父親之間非常長且涉及甚廣的爭論，他們抱怨新的追球手——什麼Eriksson——很糟糕，並擔心這是否會結束Gryffindor六年的連勝紀錄。

In the end, Remus and Euphemia abandoned them to this and went into the kitchen to help Gully with the washing up. Mrs Potter pulled up a seat for Remus by the sink, and said,
最後，Remus和Euphemia拋下他們進了廚房幫Gully洗碗。Potter夫人給Remus在水槽旁拉了一個椅子，說，

“You just sit there, my love, and you can dry. Don’t want you on your feet all evening, or you’ll never get up tomorrow. And it sounds like the boys have a lot planned.”
“你就坐在那裡，親愛的，你可以擦乾。不想讓你整晚都站著，否則你明天起不來。而且聽起來男孩們有很多計劃。”

They worked away in companionable silence for a while, Remus practiced several drying spells before giving up and just using a dishcloth. Maybe he would never be any good at domestic incantations.
他們在友好的沉默中工作了一會兒，Remus練習了幾次乾燥咒語，然後放棄了，只用了抹布。也許他永遠不會擅長家務咒語。

“Comes with practice,” Euphemia smiled. Her face was soft in the twinkle of the fairy lights, and though she looked tired, and older than Remus had remembered her, she looked content and homely. Just as a mother should look, in his mind.
“熟能生巧，”Euphemia微笑著說。她的臉在妖精燈光的閃爍下顯得柔和，雖然她看起來很累，比Remus記得的老了，但她看起來滿足且溫馨。就像他心目中的母親應該有的樣子。

“Mrs Potter?”
“Potter夫人？”

“Yes dear?”
“怎麼了，親愛的？”

“You knew my dad, didn’t you?”
“你認識我爸爸，不是嗎？”

“Lyall? A little bit, but not well. Monty knew him better, they crossed paths at the Ministry once or twice… and I believe they were both partial to a few Friday night pints in the Leaky Cauldron,” she clucked her tongue indulgently.
“Lyall？有一點，但不熟。Monty比較熟悉他，他們在部里碰過一兩次面……而且我相信他們都喜歡在漏鍋酒吧喝幾杯周五晚上的啤酒，”她溺愛地咂咂舌。

“What about Hope?”
“那Hope呢？”

Euphemia set down the plate she had been about to hand over, and looked down at him. He swallowed, “Hope Lupin? My mother. She was a muggle.”
Euphemia放下她準備遞過來的盤子，低頭看著他。他吞了口唾沫，“Hope Lupin？我的母親。她是一個麻瓜。”

“Yes, I know, dear. I only met her once.”
“是的，我知道，親愛的。我只見過她一次。”

“But you met her.” He stared at James’s mother, amazed. Why had it never occurred to him before? She pulled off her bright yellow marigolds and sat down in the chair beside him.
“但你見過她。”他驚訝地盯著James的母親。為什麼他以前從未想到過？她脫下鮮黃色的橙皮手套，坐在他旁邊的椅子上。

“We were only introduced. We were both pregnant, at the time, that’s the only reason I remember. She was a lot younger than me, and – as you say – a muggle. We moved in different circles, I suppose. Lyall was a very private man.”
“我們只是被介紹過。我們當時都懷孕了，這是我記得的唯一原因。她比我年輕很多，而且——正如你所說——是一個麻瓜。我猜我們活動在不同的圈子。Lyall是一個非常私密的人。”

“What was she like?!” Remus asked, desperately, “Was she… nice?”
“她是什麼樣子？！”Remus絕望地問，“她……好嗎？”

“Oh, Remus,” Euphemia reached over and took his hand, which was cold from the dishes, and felt a bit too familiar. He didn’t want to upset her, though, so he let her do it. “She was very nice, from what I remember. Mousey little thing, blonde hair, and a lovely smile. Very small, I remember thinking – though next to Lyall, anyone looked small. I don’t remember what the occasion was, but we were both enormous – I remember her telling me she was expecting in March. I told her to get in touch if she needed anything, but I’m afraid she never did. Perhaps she didn’t know how to do it.”
“哦，Remus，”Euphemia伸手握住他的手，那隻手因洗碗而變得冰冷，感覺有點過於親密。不過他不想讓她難過，所以讓她這樣做。“她非常好，據我記得。瘦小的身材，金色的頭髮，還有可愛的笑容。非常小，我記得想過——雖然在Lyall旁邊，任何人看起來都很小。我不記得是什麼場合，但我們都很胖——我記得她告訴我她預產期在三月。我告訴她如果需要什麼就聯繫我，但恐怕她從未聯繫過。也許她不知道怎麼做。”

Remus looked down. If he had made it through his childhood unscathed, perhaps in time his mother might have made more friends. Perhaps she would have befriended Mrs Potter, and perhaps they would all have spent Christmases together.
Remus低下頭。如果他在童年時期安然無恙，也許隨著時間的推移，他的母親可能會交到更多的朋友。也許她會和Potter夫人成為朋友，或許他們會一起度過聖誕節。

“I was given a letter,” Remus said, slowly. “When I turned seventeen. She wrote it – Hope – before giving me away. She said in it… she said I might try to find her.”
“我收到了一封信，”Remus慢慢地說。“當我十七歲的時候。她寫的——Hope——在送走我之前。她在信裡說……她說我可以試著去找她。”

“Is that what you’d like?”
“那是你想要的嗎？”

“I don’t know. Maybe she’s changed her mind by now.”
“我不知道。也許她現在改變主意了。”

“Remus.” Euphemia said, very fiercely, “I can promise you she hasn’t. If you want to look for your mother, then just give me the word. Monty can do it in a trice.”
“Remus。”Euphemia非常激烈地說，“我可以向你保證她沒有。如果你想找你母親，只要告訴我一聲。Monty可以馬上去做。”

Remus looked up, finally, and smiled.
Remus終於抬起頭，笑了。

“Thank you.”
“謝謝。”

He went to bed early, and was woken by Sirius, creeping in under the covers. The house had grown quiet, and it was very dark out.
他早早上床睡覺，結果被Sirius叫醒了，Sirius悄悄爬進了被窩。房子已經變得安靜，外面非常黑。

“Sorry,” Sirius whispered, smelling faintly of brandy, and warm all over as he wound his arms around Remus, “Di’n’t mean to wake you up.”
“對不起，”Sirius低聲說，身上有淡淡的白蘭地味，當他把手臂繞過Remus時，全身都溫暖起來，“不想把你吵醒。”

“Yeah, you did.” Remus murmured, sleepily. “Haven’t told Prongs yet, then?”
“是的，你吵醒了我。”Remus昏昏欲睡地喃喃道。“還沒告訴Prongs嗎？”

“Nah,” Sirius shook his head against Remus’s arm, burying his face under the duvet, “I thought tomorrow. After Diagon Alley, before dinner.”
“沒有，”Sirius把頭靠在Remus的手臂上，將臉埋在被子下，“我想明天。在對角巷之後，晚餐之前。”

“Ok.” Remus sighed, closing his eyes and settling back to sleep. Just before he drifted off, he whispered, “You better set an alarm of something, then, so you can get back to your own bed, before…” But no. Sirius had fallen sound asleep.
“好吧。”Remus嘆了口氣，閉上眼睛，重新入睡。就在他快要睡著時，他低聲說：“你最好設個鬧鐘什麼的，這樣你可以回到自己的床上，免得……”但沒有，Sirius已經熟睡了。

 

Tuesday 27th December 1977 1977年12月27日星期二

“COME ON, COME ON! HURRY UP!” James was bellowing up the stairs as Remus searched for his woolly hat.
“快點，快點！快點！”James在樓梯上大喊，Remus正在找他的毛線帽。

“Calm down you lunatic, we’re almost ready!” Sirius yelled back, from the landing, where he was re-arranging his parting in the full length mirror.
“冷靜點你這瘋子，我們快準備好了！”Sirius在樓梯間回喊，他正在全身鏡前重新整理他的髮型。

“No shouting in the house, boys!” Euphemia called from the kitchen.
“不要在家裡大喊大叫，孩子們！”Euphemia在廚房裡喊道。

“I can’t find it. Did you pack it?” Remus huffed, hanging off his door frame.
“我找不到。你打包了嗎？”Remus氣喘吁吁地說，靠在門框上。

“I told you, I left packing to Prongs. OI, PRONGS! YOU FORGOT MOONY’S HAT YOU BASTARD!”
“我告訴過你，我讓Prongs打包了。喂，PRONGS！你忘了Moony的帽子，你這混蛋！”

“I ASKED YOU TO HELP ME!” James shouted back, “YOU SAID I HAD EVERYTHING UNDER CONTROL!”
“我請你幫忙了！”James回喊，“你說我已經控制了一切！”

“I ASSUMED YOU DID!”
“我以為你真的做了！”

“SORRY, MOONY!”
“對不起，Moony！”

“IT’S OK, PRONGS!” Remus joined in, a bit embarrassed. “I’ll go without.” He said, “It’s not that cold.”
“沒事，Prongs！”Remus有點尷尬地加入了進來。“我就不用了。”他說，“不是很冷。”

“Have mine,” Sirius shrugged, tossing his head again, still eyeing himself in the mirror, “I don’t want to muck up my hair, anyway, “Accio hat.”
“用我的吧，”Sirius聳聳肩，再次甩了甩頭，仍在鏡子裡看著自己，“我不想弄亂我的頭髮，‘Accio帽子’。”

Sirius’s red woollen hat, emblazoned with a Gryffindor lion came shooting out of the rubbish tip he called a bedroom, and Remus grabbed it from the air and rammed it down on his head.
Sirius的紅色毛線帽，上面繡著Gryffindor的獅子圖案，從他稱之為臥室的垃圾堆裡飛了出來，Remus從空中抓住它，戴在頭上。

“Ok. Let’s go!”
“好吧。我們走吧！”

“Finally!” James met them at the bottom of the stairs, where he had been waiting for a good half an hour now.
“終於！”James在樓梯底下見到了他們，他已經等了好半個小時了。

“Where’s Wormtail?”
“Wormtail在哪？”

“Sent an owl, doesn’t feel like it, apparently. Grumpy git.”
“他發了一隻貓頭鷹，顯然不想來。脾氣暴躁的傢伙。”

“Yeah, well for once I don’t blame him for not wanting to floo to London on a winter’s day just to see you and Evans snog.” Sirius teased.
“是啊，這次我不怪他不想在冬天的某一天飛到倫敦來看你和Evans親熱。”Sirius揶揄道。

“That’s not all we do!” James’s ears turned red. “Anyway, if that’s true, why are you and Moony coming?”
“我們不只是做那種事！”James的耳朵變紅了。“不管怎樣，如果那是真的，為什麼你和Moony也來？”

“I want some new books and he’s a voyeur.” Remus shrugged. “C’mon, let’s go, shall we?”
“我想要一些新書，而他是個窺視者。”Remus聳聳肩。“走吧，我們走吧，好嗎？”

Remus remembered to keep his eyes and mouth closed this time, and liked to think that he arrived in the fireplace of The Leaky Cauldron with some dignity, even if he had tripped over the cast iron grate. Luckily, he stumbled straight into Lily’s arms, as she had been anxiously awaiting their arrival.
這次Remus記得閉上眼睛和嘴巴，他喜歡認為自己是帶著某種尊嚴到達漏鍋酒吧的壁爐的，即使他絆倒在鑄鐵柵欄上。幸運的是，他直接跌進了Lily的懷裡，因為她一直焦急地等待著他們的到來。

“Oof!” She yelped, staggering but just about keeping upright. “Hiya, Remus!”
“哎呀！”她尖叫道，踉蹌了一下但勉強保持站立。“你好，Remus！”

“Hi,” he laughed, getting his own balance, “My hero!”
“嗨，”他笑著，重新站穩，“我的英雄！”

“Too late, Prongs,” Sirius said, brushing himself off, as he stepped neatly over the grate, “You’ve lost her to a better man already.”
“太晚了，Prongs，”Sirius一邊拍打自己身上的灰塵，一邊整齊地跨過柵欄說，“你已經把她輸給了一個更好的人。”

“It was inevitable, I suppose.” James grinned, following him out. Lily let go of Remus immediately and flung herself at James, who looked thrilled to bits.
“我想這是不可避免的。”James咧嘴笑著，跟在他身後走出去。Lily立刻放開Remus，撲向James，James看起來激動極了。

They managed to find a table to sit at in the crowded pub, and ordered four butterbeers.
他們設法在擁擠的酒吧裡找到了一張桌子坐下，點了四杯奶油啤酒。

“Busy, isn’t it!” Remus said, raising his voice over the din as he pushed through the throngs of shoppers with the drinks.
“很忙，不是嗎！”Remus抬高聲音說，推著飲料穿過購物人群。

“Sales,” Lily said, casually, “Oxford Street’s just as bad, I was there with Mum this morning.”
“打折季，”Lily隨意地說，“牛津街也一樣糟糕，我今天早上和媽媽去了那裡。”

“Anyone here we know?” Sirius asked, raising his head to look about at the faces,
“這裡有我們認識的人嗎？”Sirius抬起頭環顧四周，看看周圍的面孔，

“Um… not really… Ooh, er, I did see Frank, earlier – do you remember Frank Longbottom? He was Head Boy in our first year.” Lily said, before ducking her head and focusing on her drink – and James’s hand, which was on her hip and snaking slowly underneath her green wool jumper.
“嗯……不太……哦，呃，我確實早些時候見過Frank——你還記得Frank Longbottom嗎？他是我們一年級的級長。”Lily說，然後低下頭，專注於她的飲料——以及James的手，那隻手在她的臀部上，慢慢地滑到她的綠色毛線衫下。

Once they had finished their drinks, they were all keen to get out of the noisy, overwarm pub and into the fresh air. The street, however, was just as packed. It seemed to Remus that the entire wizard population of Britain must be crammed into these few crooked streets, all wrapped up in heavy winter robes, carrying bags and baskets and boxes, cheerily wishing each other merry Christmas or else rudely barging through the hustle and bustle to get to the shop they wanted.
喝完飲料後，他們都急於離開這家吵鬧、過熱的酒吧，走進新鮮空氣中。然而，街道也同樣擁擠。在Remus看來，整個英國的巫師人口似乎都擠進了這幾條蜿蜒的街道，每個人都裹著厚重的冬袍，提著包包、籃子和盒子，愉快地互祝聖誕快樂，或者粗魯地穿過熙熙攘攘的人群，趕去他們想去的商店。

“Try to stay together!” James threw over his shoulder at Sirius and Remus, before promptly disappearing into the throng with Lily.
“盡量待在一起！”James朝Sirius和Remus肩後喊道，然後迅速和Lily一起消失在人群中。

“Let’s just do our shopping and find them later,” Sirius huffed, put out. “Did you say you wanted books?”
“我們先買東西，然後再找他們，”Sirius有點生氣地說。“你說你想要書嗎？”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, distracted. “Can you smell that?”
“是的，”Remus點點頭，有點心不在焉。“你能聞到那個嗎？”

“Smell what?” Sirius asked, pulling Remus’s robe in the direction of Flourish & Blott’s. Remus followed, but sniffed the air again. The trouble was, it was so hard to describe a scent – even to Sirius, whose own canine attributes sometimes surfaced even when he was in human form.
“聞到什麼？”Sirius問，拉著Remus的袍子朝Flourish & Blott's方向走去。Remus跟著，但再次嗅了嗅空氣。問題是，描述一種氣味是如此困難——即使是對Sirius也是如此，他的犬類特徵有時即使在人形時也會顯現出來。

“I dunno.” He said, lamely, “Just smells different than last time. The magic. It’s probably just all these people.”
“我不知道。”他無力地說，“只是聞起來和上次不一樣。魔法。可能只是因為這些人。”

“You can smell magic?!”
“你能聞到魔法？！”

“Oh. Yeah, I can.”
“哦，是的，我能。”

“Bloody hell.”
“見鬼了。”

The bookshop was manic, but Remus didn’t mind. He would have been content to wander the shelves all day, row by row, picking through and reading blurbs and stroking covers. He was having the best afternoon he’d had in ages, until he was interrupted.
書店裡一片忙亂，但Remus並不介意。他會很滿意地在書架間徘徊一整天，一排一排地翻閱、閱讀書皮介紹和撫摸封面。他度過了很長時間以來最美好的下午，直到他被打斷。

“Well, well. Look who it is.” Remus looked up, and saw Snape standing only a few meters away. He reeked of silver, so Remus stayed back.
“哦，哦。看看這是誰。”Remus抬起頭，看到Snape站在幾米外。他身上有一股銀的氣味，所以Remus後退了。

“What do you want, Snivellus?” He tutted, pretending to be unconcerned, returning to the book he was looking at.
“你想要什麼，Snivellus？”他咂舌，假裝不在意，繼續看他正在看的書。

“You and your little band of delinquents might think you own the school, Loony Lupin,” Severus tutted, “But you do not have any claim on Diagon Alley. I’m allowed to shop wherever I like.”
“你和你的小搗蛋鬼團伙可能以為你們擁有這所學校，Loony Lupin，”Severus咂舌，“但你們對對角巷沒有任何要求。我可以隨便在哪裡購物。”

“Well. Piss off and shop, then.” Remus shrugged, turning away. He was starting to feel sick, and he wanted Snape and whatever he was hiding under his robes gone.
“好吧。那就滾開去購物吧。”Remus聳聳肩，轉身離開。他開始感到不適，他希望Snape和他藏在袍子下的東西消失。

“You’re in my way.” Snape narrowed his cold black eyes. He began to advance on Remus, reaching over his shoulder for a book on potions. Remus’s hands began to shake, so he put his book down and moved away, shoving his hands inside his pockets. Where was Sirius?
“你擋住我的路了。”Snape眯起冰冷的黑眼睛。他開始向Remus逼近，伸手從肩上取下一本關於魔藥的書。Remus的手開始顫抖，所以他放下書，走開，把手插進口袋。Sirius在哪？

“Feeling all right, Loony?” Snape smiled maliciously.
“感覺還好嗎，Loony？”Snape惡意地笑道。

“What are you doing with that much silver on you, you freak?” Remus choked, leaning back on the bookcase behind him, his eyes watering.
“你身上帶這麼多銀幹什麼，你這怪物？”Remus哽咽著，靠在身後的書架上，眼睛流淚。

“One can’t be too careful.” Snape purred. “You get all sorts, ‘round here.”
“再小心也不為過。”Snape低聲說。“這裡什麼人都有。”

“All right, Snivellus?” Sirius’s voice came from just behind them. Remus sighed with relief as Snape reeled back, looking as though he’d been caught stealing. Sirius stepped out from behind the bookcase, arms folded, “Get lost on the way to Knockturn Alley, did you? Or maybe just in town for your annual hair wash?”
“怎麼了，Snivellus？”Sirius的聲音從他們身後傳來。Remus鬆了一口氣，Snape退了回去，看起來像是被抓住偷東西一樣。Sirius從書架後走出，雙臂交叉，“迷路到Knockturn Alley了嗎？還是只是來城裡洗個年度頭髮？”

“Fuck off, Black.”
“滾開，Black。”

“Oh, please, after you,” Sirius made a sweeping bow, allowing Severus to stalk off, mumbling darkly to himself. Remus chuckled, weakly.
“哦，拜託，隨你便，”Sirius做了個大幅鞠躬動作，讓Severus悻悻離開，自言自語地低聲咕噥。Remus虛弱地笑了。

“Thanks,” he said.
“謝謝，”他說。

“You ok?”
“你還好嗎？”

Hm. Better not to worry him, about the silver. Probably just Snape being his usual revolting self.
嗯。最好不要讓他擔心銀的事。可能只是Snape一如既往地令人厭惡。

“Fine.” Remus smiled. “Come on, let’s go and find the others, shall we?”
“沒事。”Remus笑了。“走吧，我們去找其他人，好嗎？”

“Don’t you want to buy your books?”
“你不想買書了嗎？”

“Nah,” Remus shook his head, “I just wanted to make a note of the names, see if Pince will order them into the school library for me. Free, that way.”
“不要了，”Remus搖搖頭，“我只是想記下書名，看看Pince會不會幫我訂進校圖書館。這樣免費。”

“Fair enough. C’mon then, mad in here.”
“好吧。那我們走吧，這裡太瘋狂了。”

They had to push most of their way outside, and once they were out, Remus needed a breather, and had to lean against the wall in the alleyway beside the shop.
他們不得不擠出大部分路，一旦走出去，Remus需要喘口氣，不得不靠在店旁的小巷牆上。

“Are you sure you’re ok?!” Sirius asked, tugging at a lock of his long hair, anxiously.
“你真的沒事嗎？！”Sirius焦急地問，拉著他的一縷長髮。

“Fine!” Remus breathed, nodding again. The sickly feeling was receding, now, he just needed a minute. “Just the moon, probably. Still tired.”
“沒事！”Remus呼吸著，再次點頭。那種不適感正在消退，他只需要一分鐘。“可能只是月亮。還是累。”

“What did Snivellus want?”
“Snivellus想要什麼？”

“Oh, the usual nonsense,” Remus screwed up his face, “I don’t think he meant to bump into me. What’s Knockturn Alley?”
“哦，還是那套胡扯，”Remus皺起臉，“我不認為他是故意碰到我的。Knockturn Alley是什麼？”

“Over there,” Sirius nodded across the street to another alleyway, slightly wider than the one they were standing in, which clearly led to more shops. “It’s where the dodgier types hang out. Dark wizards, banshees in disguise, vampires. That sort of thing.”
“在那邊，”Sirius點頭示意對面的另一條小巷，比他們站的這條稍寬，顯然通向更多的商店。“那是那些更陰險的人聚集的地方。黑巫師，偽裝的女妖，吸血鬼。那類東西。”

“Oh.” And werewolves. Remus knew this instantly. There was a very faint scent, now he knew what to look for. Someone who had been there recently. Not Livia.
“哦。”還有狼人。Remus立刻知道這一點。現在他知道要找什麼了，有一種非常微弱的氣味。最近有人去過。不是Livia。

“James’s dad was telling me they’re planning a raid on some of the shops down there in the New Year – reckon they’re stocking illegal supplies. Bet you anything it’s where Snivellus snuck off to.”
“James的爸爸告訴我，他們計劃在新年對那裡的一些商店進行突襲——估計他們在儲存非法物品。賭你什麼都行，那就是Snivellus溜去的地方。”

Remus stared at Knockturn Alley for a while, as he caught his breath. Whatever the strange new scent was, it was coming from there. He’d smelled something like it before; from Moody. Dark Magic – burnt around the edges, charred flesh. He shivered.
Remus盯著Knockturn Alley看了一會兒，喘著氣。不管那奇怪的新氣味是什麼，它都來自那裡。他以前聞到過類似的氣味；來自Moody。黑魔法——邊緣燒焦，燒焦的肉。他打了個寒顫。

“Quality Quidditch Supplies?” He suggested, “If James is anywhere he’ll be there.”
“Quality Quidditch Supplies？”他建議道，“如果James在任何地方，他會在那裡。”

“Good shout!” Sirius nodded, “Let’s go then.”
“好主意！”Sirius點頭，“那我們走吧。”

They left the shadowy alleyway, and stepped out into the bright winter sunshine. It hadn’t snowed this year, but it was still bitterly cold, and the sky was clear, making the air fresh and crisp with energy. As they crossed the road, slowly past the gaggles of witches shopping with their children, the wizards stopping to pass the time of day, and house elves running errands for their masters, the energy seemed to change, slightly. It made the hairs on Remus’s stand up neck, like the arrival of a predator. He tensed, and looked around. He caught sight of Lily and James looking at the latest broom in the window of Quality Quidditch Supplies. He was about to turn and get Sirius’s attention, when it happened.
他們離開陰暗的小巷，走進明亮的冬日陽光中。今年沒有下雪，但天氣依然刺骨寒冷，天空晴朗，使空氣清新而充滿活力。他們過馬路時，慢慢地穿過一群帶著孩子購物的女巫，停下來打發時間的巫師，為主人跑腿的家養小精靈，能量似乎有些變化。這讓Remus的脖子上的毛髮豎起來，就像捕食者的到來。他緊張起來，四處張望。他看到Lily和James正在Quality Quidditch Supplies的櫥窗前看最新的掃帚。他正準備轉身叫Sirius的注意，這時發生了。

BANG
砰

The front of The Leaky Cauldron exploded in a plume of thick, blood red smoke, bricks and wood and glass flying out into the street. There was barely a microsecond of stunned silence before the screams started, wails of pain and terror and shock. The chaos around them seemed to expand and contract, like a crashing wave.
The Leaky Cauldron的前部在一股濃濃的血紅色煙霧中爆炸，磚頭、木頭和玻璃飛到街上。幾乎沒有一微秒的驚愕沉默，尖叫聲就開始了，痛苦、恐懼和震驚的哀號聲。周圍的混亂似乎在擴展和收縮，就像一個撞擊的波浪。

CRACK CRACK CRACK, people were apparating around them – many were leaving, but a few were arriving, too. These were the ones that made something deep inside Remus want to start growling.
噼啪噼啪噼啪，人們在他們周圍幻影移形——很多人正在離開，但也有一些人正在到來。這些人讓Remus內心深處的某些東西開始想要咆哮。

BANG
砰

Another shop, further up the street exploded too, then another, and…
另一家商店，在街上更遠處的也爆炸了，然後是另一家，還有……

“Get down!” Sirius full-body tackled Remus to the ground, and they both covered their faces as Quality Quidditch Supplies went up in smoke.
“趴下！”Sirius全身撲向Remus，把他按倒在地，他們都捂住臉，Quality Quidditch Supplies在煙霧中消失。

Chapter 125~130Chapter Summary

125. Seventh Year: Christmas Part 2 (2018-01-04)
126. Sevenths Year: Christmas Part 3 (2018-01-07)
127. Seventh Year: Responsibilities (2018-01-08)
128. Seventh Year: Preparation (2018-01-09)
129. Seventh Year: Instinct (2018-01-11)
130. Seventh Year: Castor (2018-01-21)

Chapter 125: Seventh Year: Christmas Part 2The ground shook, and Remus squeezed his eyes shut, belly down on the cobblestones. Everything after that moment – seeing Lily and James’s heads turn, before the building in front of them exploded – everything after that made so little sense. It was all too slow, or too fast, and Remus found he did not react in his usual way – he was weak, frightened, his comprehension muddled. He felt stunned.
地面震動，Remus閉上眼睛，趴在鵝卵石上。從那一刻起，一切都變得毫無意義——看到Lily和James轉過頭，然後面前的建築爆炸——之後的一切都變得毫無意義。一切都太慢或太快，Remus發現自己沒有像往常那樣反應——他很虛弱，害怕，理解力模糊。他感到震驚。

They raised their heads – he and Sirius – much too long after it had gone quiet, when people around them were already standing up, and were shouting, or crying. Someone was definitely crying, a woman. That seemed loudest of all. And someone laughing, too, a thin, razor sharp cackle in the distance, pure joy.
當他和Sirius抬起頭時，四周已經安靜了很久，人們已經站起來，有人喊叫或哭泣。確實有人在哭，一個女人。這聲音最響亮。還有一個人在笑，遠處傳來一聲薄而尖銳的笑聲，純粹的喜悅。

Diagon Alley looked like a bomb site. The shops which had been destroyed were like broken teeth in a gaping maw; strange blue patches of sky where something else should be. It was hard to see much on ground level, but they squinted through the settling dust further down the street towards Gringotts, where most of the noise seemed to be coming from,
Diagon Alley看起來像一個爆炸現場。被摧毀的商店像是張開的嘴巴中的破碎牙齒；天空中奇怪的藍色斑塊，本應有其他東西的地方。在地面上很難看到什麼，但他們眯著眼睛穿過街道上逐漸沉降的灰塵，朝著Gringotts的方向看去，那裡似乎是大多數噪音的來源。

“You two!” A woman hissed, coming towards them from behind, picking through the rubble, her wand raised, “Get back! Behind me!” She stalked ahead. Her robes were deep maroon, an auror’s uniform.
“你們兩個！”一個女人嘶嘶地說，從後面向他們走來，穿過瓦礫堆，舉起魔杖，“退後！到我後面去！”她走在前面。她的長袍是深栗色，是傲羅的制服。

“James!” Sirius choked, his voice strange and strangled with terror. He scrambled to his feet, his robes all dusty and his hair full of soot. He half ran, half stumbled, towards the hole in the sky where the quidditch supply shop had stood, minutes before.
“James！”Sirius嗆了一下，他的聲音因恐懼而變得奇怪而窒息。他爬起來，長袍滿是灰塵，頭髮裡滿是煤灰。他半跑半跌地朝著幾分鐘前魁地奇用品店所在的天空中的洞口跑去。

“Sirius no…” Remus coughed, weakly, following him, feeling stupid and heavy.
“別去，Sirius…”Remus虛弱地咳嗽著，跟在他後面，感覺愚蠢而沉重。

“James!?” Sirius was shouting, but so many people were shouting.
“James！？”Sirius在喊，但很多人都在喊。

“Sirius!” Remus coughed again, trying hard to keep up, but he’d bruised his hip when he’d hit the ground, and his ears were still ringing, and his eyes were starting to go blurry as he wiped away tears with dusty wrists. “Sirius—”
“Sirius！”Remus再次咳嗽，努力跟上，但他跌倒時撞傷了臀部，耳朵還在嗡嗡作響，當他用沾滿灰塵的手腕擦去淚水時，眼睛開始變得模糊。“Sirius—”

“MUDBLOODS OUT!”
“泥巴種滾出去！”

Remus dropped to his knees, covering his ears, and he was not the only one. The voice seemed to be right behind him – inside his head, it was everywhere. The crowd was silent, finally, as everyone stared around, blinking, looking for the owner of the horrible, insidious voice.
Remus跪下來，捂住耳朵，他不是唯一一個這樣做的人。這聲音似乎就在他身後——在他腦海裡，無處不在。人群終於安靜下來，大家四處張望，眨著眼睛，尋找那可怕而狡猾聲音的主人。

Whatever was going on, it was happening further away – Remus could smell magic now, and see beams of light firing through the dust cloud surrounding Gringotts. He could smell Moody, and… Ferox? Maybe him. And the death eaters. Some of them he recognised, others he didn’t – but they were there, and there were a lot of them. Where was Sirius? The ruins of the shop which had stood before them was still bleeding smoke, and Sirius had wandered straight into it, the idiot.
不管發生什麼事情，它發生在更遠的地方——Remus現在可以聞到魔法的氣味，看到光束穿過Gringotts周圍的灰塵雲。他能聞到Moody的氣味，還有…Ferox？也許是他。還有食死徒。他認識其中一些，其他的則不認識——但他們都在那裡，而且有很多。Sirius在哪裡？他們面前的商店廢墟仍然冒著煙，而Sirius已經徑直走進去，這個笨蛋。

Gritting his teeth, and with not a little pain, Remus pushed himself to his feet again. He had to find them.
咬緊牙關，忍著疼痛，Remus再次站起來。他必須找到他們。

The shouts of battle were getting louder, more desperate; the woman who had ordered him and Sirius back had joined in, and Remus’s conscience told him he ought to go and help. But James, and Lily, and Sirius…
戰鬥的喊聲越來越大，越來越絕望；那個命令他和Sirius退後的女人也加入了進來，Remus的良心告訴他應該去幫忙。但James，Lily，還有Sirius…

“Morsmorde!” The same voice spoke, close and far away.
“Morsmorde！”同樣的聲音，既近又遠。

The smoke filling the street seemed to writhe and darken, expanding and swirling upwards to form an enormous snake entwined with a screaming, hollow eyed black skull.
充滿街道的煙霧似乎在扭動和變暗，膨脹並旋轉向上，形成一條巨大的蛇纏繞著一個尖叫的、空洞眼睛的黑色骷髏。

“It’s him!” A man near Remus shouted, “It’s you know who!”
“是他！”Remus附近的一個男人喊道，“是你知道的那個人！”

“Silencio!” Someone else hexed him into quiet. An odd stillness, more flashes – blue, green, yellow, red, and then…
“Silencio！”另一個人對他施了靜音咒。一種奇怪的寂靜，更多的閃光——藍色，綠色，黃色，紅色，然後…

CRACK CRACK CRACK, they were getting away!
噼啪噼啪噼啪，他們逃走了！

For the first time, Remus thought to withdraw his wand, fumbling about in his borrowed robes for it. As he did, his fingers brushed against something else – smooth and heavy. His fingers closed around his pocket watch and he wrenched it out, prising it open quickly and saying aloud,
Remus第一次想到要拔出魔杖，在他借來的長袍裡摸索。當他這樣做時，他的手指碰到了其他東西——光滑而沉重。他的手指握住懷錶，迅速把它掏出來，快速打開並大聲說，

“Sirius Black.”
“Sirius Black。”

The needle did not even wobble, but pointed forward immediately, and Remus followed it towards the ruin of the shop. “Sirius?! Sirius?!”
針頭甚至沒有晃動，但立即指向前方，Remus跟著它走向商店的廢墟。“Sirius？！Sirius？！”

“Moony!” A hand grabbed his shoulder and he whipped around desperately.
“Moony！”一隻手抓住他的肩膀，他絕望地轉過身。

“James!”
“James！”

James hugged him, fiercely, and Remus didn’t even think about how unusual it was, he was just so, so grateful, and relieved, he hugged him back. Lily appeared at his shoulder, pale faced, her hair falling out of its ponytail, clothes smudged with ash. There was a cut just under her hairline, dark blood oozing down into her left eyebrow. And Sirius, too, thank god thank god thank god.
James緊緊地抱住他，Remus甚至沒有考慮這有多不尋常，他只是感到如此、如此的感激和如釋重負，回抱住了他。Lily出現在他的肩膀上，臉色蒼白，頭髮從馬尾中散落，衣服上沾滿了灰燼。在她髮際線下方有一道傷口，黑暗的血液滲入她的左眉毛。還有Sirius，謝天謝地。

“I lost you.” Remus said, hoarsely, once James let him go. One of the lenses in his glasses was shattered.
“我找不到你們了。”一旦James放開他，Remus沙啞地說。他眼鏡的一個鏡片破碎了。

“I’m sorry.” Sirius said, sounding just as awful.
“對不起。”Sirius說，聽起來同樣糟糕。

“We’d better go and help,” James said, shaking both their shoulders, “The battle’s—”
“我們最好去幫忙，”James說，搖著他們的肩膀，“戰鬥——”

“Finished.” Remus said. “They ran away. Disapparated, most of them. How did you two…” he stared at Lily and James, still not quite believing his eyes.
“結束了。”Remus說。“他們逃走了。大多數人都幻影移形了。你們兩個怎麼…”他盯著Lily和James，仍然不敢相信自己的眼睛。

“Frank.” Lily said, sounding much smaller than Remus had ever heard her. James wrapped an arm around her. “Frank’s an auror. He used a knock-back jinx on us, right before the shop was hit, then protego, I think. I didn’t… I didn’t know what to do.” Her eyes filled with tears, and James wrapped his other arm around her, enveloping her completely.
“Frank。”Lily說，聲音比Remus聽到的任何時候都小。James用手臂摟著她。“Frank是個傲羅。在商店被擊中之前，他對我們使用了反擊咒，然後是保護咒，我想。我不知道該怎麼辦。”她的眼睛充滿淚水，James用另一隻手臂摟住她，完全包裹住她。

“I didn’t, either.” Remus said, as if it would help. “Didn’t even get my wand out.”
“我也不知道。”Remus說，彷彿這樣會有幫助。“甚至沒拔出我的魔杖。”

Sirius was gripping his, though. He looked dreadful; fierce as a demon, eyes full of hatred,
但Sirius握著他的魔杖。他看起來很可怕；像惡魔一樣兇狠，眼中充滿仇恨，

“I’m going anyway. They might still need help.” He said.
“無論如何我要去。他們可能還需要幫助。”他說。

Remus grabbed him by the shoulders, surprising even himself with his strength.
Remus抓住他的肩膀，甚至連自己都對自己的力量感到驚訝。

“Don’t. You. Dare.” He growled, meeting Sirius’s eye. Something distinctly canine passed between them, then, and Remus almost thought they were going to actually fight, and that it would be sort of a relief if they did. But of course, James intervened.
“不准。你。去。”他低吼，直視Sirius的眼睛。之間傳遞著某種明顯的犬類信息，Remus幾乎認為他們真的要打起來，如果真的這樣也許會有種解脫的感覺。但當然，James介入了。

“Moony’s right,” he said, “We ought to—”
“Moony說得對，”他說，“我們應該——”

CRACK
噼啪

“Boys!”
“孩子們！”

“Dad!”
“爸爸！”

Fleamont Potter had arrived right next to James. He grabbed his son, then Sirius, then Remus – who had recovered enough now to find the hugging all a bit much – and then stared with horror at what remained of Diagon Alley. His bushy eyebrows knit, and he addressed his son,
Fleamont Potter來到了James旁邊。他抓住了他的兒子，然後是Sirius，然後是Remus——他現在已經恢復得足夠好，覺得這麼多擁抱有點過了——然後恐懼地看著Diagon Alley的殘骸。他濃密的眉毛皺了起來，對他的兒子說，

“Are you all ok? Your mother wants you back at the house immediately, she’s been called to St. Mungo’s, otherwise she’d be here.”
“你們都還好嗎？你媽媽希望你們馬上回家，她被叫到St. Mungo醫院了，不然她會在這裡。”

“Shouldn’t we stay and help?” James asked, looking troubled, still holding Lily tightly to his chest. What a bloody hero, Remus thought. He still had Sirius by the shoulders, gripping him hard because he couldn’t hug him.
“我們不應該留下來幫忙嗎？”James問道，表情困惑，仍然緊緊抱著Lily。Remus想，真是個該死的英雄。他仍然抓住Sirius的肩膀，緊緊抓著他，因為他不能擁抱他。

Fleamont looked at James and seemed to grow a few inches with pride. He smiled,
Fleamont看著James，似乎因為驕傲而高了幾英寸。他笑了，

“No, son, it’s all in hand – Moody’s there, and Dumbledore’s on his way. I just want you all home and safe, before anything—”
“不，兒子，一切都在掌握中——Moody在那裡，Dumbledore在路上。我只希望你們都回家並安全，在任何事情發生之前——”

“No one is to leave!” A man was shouting, cutting through the crowd and the rubble with an authoritative stride. “Not until they have been questioned by—oh, hello Monty. Didn’t know you were here.”
“沒有人可以離開！”一個男人喊道，帶著權威的步伐穿過人群和瓦礫。“在他們被詢問之前——哦，Monty，你好。不知道你在這裡。”

“Amos,” Mr Potter nodded at the ministry official. “Got here as soon as I could. Taking the boys home, they were out shopping and got caught up.”
“Amos，”Potter先生對那個魔法部官員點了點頭。“我盡快趕到了。帶孩子們回家，他們在外面購物，被捲進來了。”

“That so?” The official – Amos – came over to look at them all. “Names?”
“是嗎？”那個官員——Amos——走過來看他們所有人。“名字？”

“Amos, is that really necc—”
“Amos，這真的有必要嗎——”

“Names?” He repeated, in a harder tone.
“名字？”他重複道，語氣更嚴厲。

“Well you know James, you’ve known him since he was five, for goodness sake…” Fleamont tutted, “And this is Miss Evans, I presume?” He glanced at Lily, who had stopped crying, but still looked very frightened.
“你知道James的，你從他五歲時就認識他，拜託…”Fleamont嘖嘖道，“這是Evans小姐，我猜是嗎？”他瞥了一眼Lily，她已經停止哭泣，但仍然看起來很害怕。

“Yes.” She squeaked. “Lily Evans.”
“是的。”她尖叫道。“Lily Evans。”

“Evans?” Amos looked thoughtful. He pulled some parchment out of his pocket, “Evans, Evans… Parents names?”
“Evans？”Amos看起來若有所思。他從口袋裡掏出一些羊皮紙，“Evans，Evans…父母的名字？”

“You wouldn’t know them.” She said, her eyes darting between James and the official, “I’m muggleborn.”
“你不會認識他們。”她說，她的眼睛在James和那個官員之間來回閃爍，“我是麻瓜出身。”

Amos looked down his nose at her again, then eyed James with a rude quirk of his eyebrow.
Amos再次從鼻子上瞟了她一眼，然後用一種粗魯的眉毛挑起看著James。

“I see. Very well. And you two? Oh hoho! I know you! You’re the Black heir!”
“我明白了。很好。那你們兩個呢？哦呵呵！我認識你！你是Black的繼承人！”

“Was.” Sirius muttered. He shook himself free of Remus and shoved his hands in his pockets, adopting a sullen, irritable attitude which always appeared when his family was mentioned. Remus wished he could tell him not to do that. It didn’t make him look any less guilty.
“曾經是。”Sirius嘟囔道。他擺脫了Remus，把手插進口袋，採取了一種陰鬱、易怒的態度，這種態度總是在提到他的家人時出現。Remus希望他能告訴他不要這樣做。這不會讓他看起來不那麼有罪。

“He’s coming home with us, too.” Fleamont said, quickly. “Sirius has lived with us for well over a year now, and—”
“他也要跟我們回家。”Fleamont迅速說道。“Sirius已經和我們住了超過一年了，而且——”

“Come come, Monty,” Amos tutted, “The Black heir? I’m not stupid, and neither are you. He’ll have to be questioned.”
“來來，Monty，”Amos嘖嘖道，“Black的繼承人？我不是傻瓜，你也不是。他必須被詢問。”

“Absolutely not.” Fleamont raised his voice. Remus had never heard him shout before – it was even more terrifying than a dark mark. “They’re school kids, for godric’s sake!”
“絕對不行。”Fleamont提高了聲音。Remus從未聽過他喊叫——這比黑魔標記更可怕。“他們是學生，拜託！”

“Plenty of school kids on their side too, from what I hear.” Amos said, “Plenty of Black’s, too.”
“據我所知，他們那邊也有很多學生。”Amos說，“還有很多Black的。”

“I’m not interested in that. You can speak with Dumbledore if you have to, but I am responsible for these boys and I am taking them all home right now.”
“我對那個不感興趣。如果你非得這麼做，你可以跟Dumbledore談，但我對這些孩子負責，我現在要帶他們回家。”

“What about you?” Amos suddenly turned on Remus, who blinked. Sometimes he forgot that the Potters included him in their responsibilities.
“那你呢？”Amos突然轉向Remus，Remus眨了眨眼。有時他忘記了Potters把他也包括在他們的責任之內。

“R-Remus.” He said, trying to be brave, but failing miserably. What if this man knows something? What if he knows I’m a werewolf? “Lupin.”
“R-Remus。”他說，試圖表現得勇敢，但失敗得很慘。如果這個人知道什麼？如果他知道我是狼人怎麼辦？“Lupin。”

“Hmph.” Amos made a note, but asked no further questions. “You’re all to wait here while I speak with Dumbledore.” He said, pompously.
“哼。”Amos做了個筆記，但沒有再問問題。“你們都在這裡等著，我去跟Dumbledore談。”他自負地說。

 

“Like hell we will.” Fleamont snorted, “If you want to go and interrupt Albus Dumbledore while he assists in the investigation of a terrorist attack for the sake of a few frightened teenagers, then—” “我們才不會這樣做。”Fleamont哼了一聲，“如果你想去打擾Albus Dumbledore在調查恐怖襲擊時僅僅是為了幾個受驚的青少年，那麼——”

“Amos!” Someone – was it really Frank? – shouted from the distance, “Where the hell are you, we need you up here – it’s Leo!” “Amos！”有人——真的是Frank嗎？——從遠處喊道，“你到底在哪裡，我們需要你上來——是Leo！”

The official turned, sharply, and with a reluctant final glance at Sirius, he ran towards the voice. Mr Potter leapt into action, taking no chances, 那位官員猛地轉身，最後不情願地看了Sirius一眼，然後朝聲音的方向跑去。Potter先生立刻行動起來，不敢冒任何風險，

“Quick, boys – are you all ok to apparate? Miss Evans, probably best you come with us for now?” “快，孩子們——你們都可以幻影移形嗎？Evans小姐，你現在最好跟我們一起走？”

Lily nodded, and James kissed her, before they both disapparated together, hand in hand. Fleamont nodded at Sirius and Remus, before vanishing with a loud CRACK himself. Remus looked at Sirius. Sirius looked at him too, still angry, still full of a hot desire for revenge. Lily點了點頭，James吻了她一下，然後他們兩人手牽手一起幻影移形。Fleamont對Sirius和Remus點了點頭，然後自己也發出一聲響亮的噼啪聲消失了。Remus看著Sirius。Sirius也看著他，仍然憤怒，仍然充滿了復仇的熱望。

“Oh no.” Remus said, firmly, then, barely even thinking about it, grabbed Sirius’s elbow, hard, and prepared to apparate with him. “哦不。”Remus堅定地說，然後幾乎沒有考慮就緊緊抓住了Sirius的肘部，準備和他一起幻影移形。

Sirius fought it, mid-turn – the stupid fool could easily have splinched them, as he strained against Remus’s spell, wanting only to stay where the fight was. But Remus was stronger – the air was full of fizzing, roaring leftover magic, and Remus drank from it, overpowering Sirius with the sheer weight of his own determination. Sirius在中途掙扎——這個愚蠢的傢伙很容易把他們劈開，他用力抵抗著Remus的咒語，只想留在戰鬥的地方。但Remus更強壯——空氣中充滿了嘶嘶作響、咆哮的剩餘魔法，Remus從中吸取力量，用自己決心的巨大力量壓倒了Sirius。

They arrived on the Potter’s front porch with such force their heads banged together, and they wrenched apart, panting, feeling scorched. 他們以如此大的力量到達Potter家的前廊，以至於他們的頭撞在一起，然後分開，喘著氣，感覺燒灼。

“Fucking hell, Moony!” Sirius gasped, rubbing his elbow where Remus had grabbed him. “該死的，Moony！”Sirius喘著氣，揉著被Remus抓過的肘部。

“Had to… stop you… idiot…” Remus bent forward, hands on his knees. He felt completely drained, but buzzing with it; nerves alight with static. “不得不…阻止你…笨蛋…”Remus彎腰，雙手扶著膝蓋。他感到完全筋疲力盡，但仍充滿能量；神經因靜電而興奮。

James opened the door, James打開了門，

“Get inside,” he said, “Quickly.” “進來，”他說，“快點。”

Sirius pushed past Remus without looking at him. Sirius沒看他一眼就推開了Remus。

Lily stayed for another hour or so, drinking cup after cup of tea, as Gully scuttled back and forth from the kitchen, wringing his little wizened hands and shaking his head woefully. Mr Potter apologised profusely to Lily, and hoped they would meet again soon under better circumstances – before locking himself away in his study. After that they sat in silence for most of the time; with only the occasional outburst from James or Sirius. Lily又待了一個多小時，一杯接一杯地喝茶，Gully在廚房裡來回跑，擰著他那雙小小的乾癟的手，悲傷地搖著頭。Potter先生對Lily連連道歉，希望他們能在更好的情況下再次見面——然後把自己鎖在書房裡。之後大部分時間他們都默默坐著；只有James或Sirius偶爾爆發。

“Snape!” Sirius ranted, pacing back and forth, “We saw him in the bookshop, he threatened Moony – he must have had something to do with it!” “Snape！”Sirius咆哮道，來回踱步，“我們在書店裡見過他，他威脅過Moony——他肯定和這事有關！”

“You don’t know that.” Lily said, shakily, staring at the pattern of her teacup. “你不知道。”Lily顫抖地說，盯著她茶杯上的圖案。

“Did anyone see any of them, though?!” “但有人看到他們中的任何人嗎？！”

“No.” James shook his head. “Too busy trying to take cover.” “沒有。”James搖了搖頭。“忙著躲避。”

“No.” Lily shook her head. “沒有。”Lily搖了搖頭。

“No…” Remus said. Sirius looked up at him, “沒有…”Remus說。Sirius看著他，

“Moony. You smelled something. You told me, remember? Do you know who—” “Moony。你聞到了什麼。你告訴過我，記得嗎？你知道是誰——”

“Remus you can smell people?!” Lily looked up, half shocked, half curious. “Like a scent?” “Remus你能聞到人嗎？！”Lily抬起頭，有些震驚，有些好奇。“像氣味一樣？”

“Not like… it’s just a… a wolf thing. Instinct. But I didn’t. I don’t…” Remus wished the ground would swallow him up. “不像…只是…一種狼的事情。本能。但我沒有。我不知道…”Remus希望地面能把他吞沒。

He could tell them. But he didn’t want to break it to Sirius like this; not while they were furious at each other, and frightened, and Lily and James were sitting right there. 他可以告訴他們。但他不想在這種情況下對Sirius說出來；不想在他們互相憤怒、害怕的時候，Lily和James就在那裡的時候。

“Moony.” Sirius said, in a very low, dark voice that none of them had ever heard before. “Tell me. Who?” “Moony。”Sirius用一種非常低沉、黑暗的聲音說，他們都從未聽過。“告訴我。是誰？”

Remus looked at James, desperately for help, but he was just staring back, waiting. Lily too, her mouth slightly open. He looked at Sirius again, and tried to hold his stare. Remus絕望地看向James尋求幫助，但他只是回望著，等待著。Lily也是，嘴微微張開。他再次看向Sirius，試圖堅持住他的目光。

“I think Regulus was there. But lots of people were there Sirius—” “我想Regulus在那裡。但很多人都在那裡Sirius——”

Sirius threw his hands up and left the room in utter silence. Lily gave a very tired sigh. Sirius舉起雙手，靜默地離開了房間。Lily疲憊地嘆了一口氣。

“James,” she said, “I think I had better go home. Mum and Dad will wonder.” “James，”她說，“我覺得我最好回家。爸爸媽媽會擔心。”

James insisted on apparating back with Lily, then returning by himself. Remus wished he hadn’t. He didn’t want to be left alone. Alone, it all came flooding back into his mind, as vivid as a cinema screen. The noise, the smoke, the utter terror. And shame. He had not acted. His first chance to prove to Dumbledore, and Moody, and even Snivellus, that he was on the right side, and willing to fight for it. But he had never expected it to be like that. Had never considered that when the time came, and you were on a battlefield with the only people you love in the world – all he’d wanted to do was find them, and run away. James堅持和Lily一起幻影移形回去，然後自己再回來。Remus希望他沒這麼做。他不想被留下來。獨自一人，所有事情都湧回他的腦海，像電影屏幕一樣生動。噪音，煙霧，完全的恐怖。還有羞愧。他沒有行動。他第一次有機會向Dumbledore，Moody，甚至Snivellus證明他站在正確的一邊，並且願意為此而戰。但他從未預料到會是這樣。從未想過當時刻來臨時，當你在戰場上和你世上唯一愛的人在一起時——他只想找到他們，然後逃跑。

When James returned, he found Remus pacing, treading the same stretch of carpet Sirius had been earlier. 當James回來時，他發現Remus在踱步，走在Sirius之前走過的同一塊地毯上。

“Are you ok, Moony?” He asked, nervously, taking slow steps forward, arms up, as if Remus was an untamed beast. “你還好嗎，Moony？”他緊張地問道，慢慢向前走，雙手抬起，好像Remus是一隻未馴服的野獸。

“I didn’t do anything.” Remus muttered, still pacing. “I just… I couldn’t move. I couldn’t think.” “我什麼都沒做。”Remus喃喃道，仍在踱步。“我只是…我無法動彈。我無法思考。”

“Remus…” James kept speaking in that steady, friendly tone. It was more soothing than Remus wanted to admit. “Nobody could. It was horrible; it’s the scariest thing that ever happened.” “Remus…”James繼續用那種穩定、友好的語調說話。這比Remus願意承認的還要安慰人。“沒有人能做到。那是可怕的；那是發生過的最可怕的事情。”

Remus stopped dead, and stared at James. He gave a half smile and shrugged, “None of us knew what to do.” Remus停下來，盯著James。他露出一個淡淡的微笑，聳了聳肩，“我們誰都不知道該怎麼辦。”

“Sirius did.” Remus challenged. “He was the one who got up. He wanted to help…” “Sirius知道。”Remus挑戰道。“他是那個站起來的人。他想幫忙…”

“Sirius never thinks though, Moony, you know that.” “Sirius從來不思考，Moony，你知道的。”

“Oi, up yours, Potter.” Sirius suddenly appeared in the doorway, arms folded. His eyes were a bit pink, but he didn’t look angry any more. Remus smiled at him, hopefully, behind James’s back. Sirius smiled back, reassuringly. “喂，去你的，Potter。”Sirius突然出現在門口，雙臂交叉。他的眼睛有點紅，但他看起來不再生氣了。Remus在James的背後對他微笑，希望地。Sirius回以微笑，安慰地。

“I was going to say,” James laughed, “That’s what makes you so brave, you wanker. You just want to rush in and help, even if it’s the worst idea in the world.” “我正要說呢，”James笑道，“這就是讓你如此勇敢的原因，你這個傻瓜。你只是想衝進去幫忙，即使那是世界上最糟糕的主意。”

“Yes, ok, it was not a good idea.” Sirius said, sitting down on the sofa, beside James. “是的，好吧，那不是個好主意。”Sirius說，坐在沙發上，坐在James旁邊。

“At least you did something.” Remus said, “At least you got up.” “至少你做了點什麼。”Remus說，“至少你站起來了。”

“You got up, too, Remus.” Sirius said, softly. “你也站起來了，Remus。”Sirius輕聲說。

“After you did!” Remus shot back, “I was pathetic, I was… how are we ever going to win this war if it’s going to be like that?! If I’m too scared to…” “在你之後！”Remus反擊道，“我太可悲了，我是…如果這樣下去我們怎麼可能贏得這場戰爭？！如果我太害怕…”

“I was scared too.” Sirius said, looking up. “I’m not that bonkers. I was still bricking it, I mean. Fucking hell.” “我也害怕。”Sirius抬頭說。“我不是那麼瘋狂。我還是嚇壞了，我是說。該死的。”

“Don’t.” James said, running his hand through his hair, still gritty with rubble. “It took me so long to even figure out what happened – and all I could think about was getting Lily somewhere safe. I thought I would just do anything to make sure she was safe.” “別這樣。”James說，用手撥過頭髮，頭髮上還沾滿了碎石。“我花了很長時間才弄清楚發生了什麼——我唯一能想到的就是把Lily帶到安全的地方。我以為我會做任何事情來確保她安全。”

“There you are then.” Sirius said, firmly. “That’s how we win it.” “那就對了。”Sirius堅定地說。“這就是我們贏的方式。”

Mrs Potter did not come back from St Mungo’s all night, but Fleamont stepped out of his office to tell the boys he had spoken to her, and that she was all right, before asking Gully to make him a sandwich and closing the door again. Potter夫人整晚都沒有從聖Mungo醫院回來，但Fleamont走出辦公室告訴男孩們他和她談過了，她沒事，然後讓Gully給他做個三明治，然後又關上了門。

Peter came over, white and shaking – he had heard the news, apparently he had a cousin working for The Daily Prophet. There was no useful information though. No death count yet, it hadn’t been finalised. Peter stayed for supper, but James was the only one really able to keep up a proper conversation, and eventually Peter left. When Remus announced he wanted an early night, the other two shrugged and agreed to go up too. Peter過來了，臉色蒼白，顫抖著——他聽到了消息，顯然他有個在《預言家日報》工作的表兄。沒有有用的信息。還沒有死亡人數，還沒有最終確定。Peter留下來吃晚飯，但James是唯一一個能夠正常交談的人，最終Peter離開了。當Remus說他想早點休息時，其他兩人聳了聳肩，也同意上樓。

After showering and washing the dust and smoke out of his hair, he brushed his teeth in the cold quiet bathroom and tried not to think about how odd it felt to be doing such normal things on such an abnormal day. He could hear Sirius and James murmuring quietly in the next room, solemn, tense tones. He decided to leave them to it. 洗完澡，把頭髮上的灰塵和煙霧洗掉後，他在寒冷安靜的浴室裡刷牙，試圖不去想在這樣一個異常的日子裡做這些正常事情的感覺。他能聽到Sirius和James在隔壁房間低聲說話，語調莊重而緊張。他決定讓他們自己去處理。

Hours later, Remus was seriously regretting that decision. He couldn’t sleep. He waited and waited for Sirius to come, until he realised that he must still be in with James, and might not come at all. Remus lay on his back and tried to keep his thoughts from getting too loud. This is war, he kept thinking. This is what you agreed to do. You promised Dumbledore. You promised your friends. 幾個小時後，Remus對那個決定深感後悔。他睡不著。他等啊等，等Sirius來，直到他意識到Sirius一定還在James那裡，可能根本不會來。Remus仰躺著，試圖讓自己的思緒不那麼吵鬧。這就是戰爭，他一直在想。這是你同意要做的事。你向Dumbledore承諾了。你向你的朋友承諾了。

Finally, in the small hours, when he was sick from tiredness and the first pink rays of sunrise were peeking around the curtains, his door opened. Sirius crept across the room with the stealth of a cat. 最後，在凌晨時分，當他因疲倦而感到不適，第一縷粉紅色的日出光線透過窗簾時，他的門開了。Sirius像貓一樣悄悄穿過房間。

“Remus?” He whispered from the foot of the bed. Remus rolled over. “Remus？”他從床尾低聲問道。Remus翻身過來。

“I’m here.” “我在這裡。”

Sirius practically flew at him, sliding in under the covers and burying his head under the duvet. They clung to each other, and everything steadied itself. Remus felt was calm at last. In a moment, Sirius moved slightly and whispered, Sirius幾乎是飛撲過來，滑進被子下，把頭埋在被子下。他們緊緊抱著對方，一切都穩定了下來。Remus終於感到平靜。片刻後，Sirius微微動了動，低聲說，

“Tell me a secret? A nice one?” “告訴我一個秘密？一個好的？”

Remus paused. He kissed Sirius’s hair. Remus停頓了一下。他親吻了Sirius的頭髮。

“I’m mental about you, too.” “我也瘋狂地愛著你。”

 

 

Chapter 126: Sevenths Year: Christmas Part 3 

Monday 2nd January 1978

星期一，1978年1月2日

The next week and a half was one of the darkest Remus could remember. When Mrs Potter finally arrived home the day after the attack, she was white and drawn, and hugged her family so tight, as if she had thought she would never see them again.

接下來的一個半星期是Remus所能記得的最黑暗的時期之一。當Potter夫人在襲擊發生後的第二天終於回到家時，她臉色蒼白，神情憔悴，緊緊擁抱著她的家人，好像她以為再也見不到他們了一樣。

“About fifty dead, so I’ve heard.” She said, solemnly. “I was mostly triage, though. Hundreds wounded.”

“據我聽說，大約有五十人死亡。”她莊重地說。“我主要負責分類救治，有數百人受傷。”

“Any… any of us?” Mr Potter asked. He looked as though he hadn’t slept in hours – and indeed, as far as Remus knew, he had not been to bed either.

“有……我們的人嗎？”Potter先生問道。他看起來好像幾個小時沒睡——事實上，據Remus所知，他也沒上床睡覺。

Euphemia nodded, closing her eyes.

Euphemia點了點頭，閉上眼睛。

“Later.” She said, casting a glance at the boys. James looked indignant.

“晚點再說。”她說，瞥了一眼男孩們。James看起來很氣憤。

“We can hear it.” He said. “We’re all of age, and we were there when it happened!”

“我們可以聽。”他說。“我們都成年了，而且事情發生時我們就在那裡！”

“Yes, I know you were!” Mrs Potter shouted, her voice shrill. James’s mouth snapped shut and he looked down, ashamed. Mrs Potter got up. “I’m going for a lie down.”

“是的，我知道你們在！”Potter夫人大聲喊道，聲音尖銳。James閉上了嘴，看起來很羞愧。Potter夫人站起來。“我要去躺一會兒。”

She left the room, and the men sat in silence.

她離開了房間，男人們坐在那裡，沉默不語。

“Sorry, dad.” James mumbled.

“對不起，爸爸。”James喃喃道。

“It’s all right.” Fleamont removed his glasses and rubbed the bridge of his nose. “We’re all upset. Your mother and I need you boys to listen, and do as you’re told until it’s time to go back to school, do you understand?”

“沒關係。”Fleamont摘下眼鏡，揉了揉鼻樑。“我們都很難過。你母親和我需要你們這些男孩聽話，按照吩咐行事，直到回到學校的時候，你明白嗎？”

They all nodded, reluctantly, and Remus saw the muscles in Sirius’s jaw tighten. It was a mark of his respect for Mr Potter that he did not protest. “Now,” Fleamont continued, “This house is going to be very busy for the next few days, and you’re going to see a lot of very important people doing very important work. Do not ask too many questions, and do not make nuisances of yourselves.”

他們都不情願地點了點頭，Remus看到Sirius的下巴肌肉緊繃。這表明他對Potter先生的尊敬，以至於他沒有抗議。“現在，”Fleamont繼續說道，“接下來的幾天這個房子會非常忙碌，你們會看到很多非常重要的人在做非常重要的工作。不要問太多問題，也不要惹麻煩。”

“Can’t we help?” James asked, earnestly.

“我們不能幫忙嗎？”James認真地問道。

“Yes.” Fleamont nodded. “By being gracious hosts and minding your mother.”

“可以。”Fleamont點了點頭。“通過做個殷勤的主人，照顧你們的母親。”

“Yes, dad.” James sighed, looking down again, obviously disappointed.

“好的，爸爸。”James嘆了口氣，又低下頭，顯然很失望。

“James…” Fleamont began, reaching over to touch his son’s arm.

“James…”Fleamont開始說，伸手去碰他兒子的手臂。

Remus and Sirius took that as their cue to clear the table, and waited around in the kitchen, half-heartedly helping Gully do the washing up.

Remus和Sirius把這當作清理桌子的暗示，然後在廚房裡等著，心不在焉地幫Gully洗碗。

“I don’t see what the fuss is about.” Sirius grumbled, elbow deep in soap suds. “If they knew half of the things we were capable of – we can actually help.”

“我不明白這有什麼大驚小怪的。”Sirius抱怨道，手肘深陷在肥皂泡裡。“如果他們知道我們能做的一半事情——我們實際上可以幫忙。”

“We’ll have our chance.” Remus replied, staring out of the window as he dried the plates. The garden was very dark, and a chill mist hung in the air, making it difficult to see much beyond the patio wall. He could just make out James’s quidditch hoops on the lawn, and the dim waning moon. He didn’t like not being able to see very far, it made him uneasy.

“我們會有機會的。”Remus回答道，擦乾盤子，望向窗外。花園非常黑暗，空氣中彌漫著寒冷的霧氣，使得看不清露台牆外的東西。他剛好能看到草坪上的James的魁地奇球門，還有暗淡的殘月。他不喜歡看不遠的感覺，這讓他感到不安。

“That’s all right for you to say.” Sirius was still complaining, “You’ve already proved yourself.”

“這對你來說無所謂。”Sirius仍在抱怨，“你已經證明了自己。”

”What?!” Remus glanced up at him, confused, and momentarily distracted from the window.

“什麼？！”Remus抬頭看了他一眼，困惑不解，暫時從窗外分心。

“With that werewolf you met, last year. You’ve already faced the enemy and shown Dumbledore he can trust you.”

“去年你遇到的那個狼人。你已經面對了敵人，並向Dumbledore證明了他可以信任你。”

“I don’t think I explained that properly, if that’s what you think…” Remus said. “Livia wasn’t… it wasn’t about the war.”

“我不認為我解釋清楚了，如果你是這麼想的話…”Remus說。“Livia不是…那不是關於戰爭的。”

“Dumbledore thinks it was. Moody does. They talk about the werewolves all the time – how useful you’ll be trying to convince the dark creatures not to join you know who.”

“Dumbledore認為是。Moody也是。他們總是在談論狼人——你試圖說服黑暗生物不加入你知道誰的行列，這有多麼有用。”

“Can we talk about something else?”

“我們可以談點別的嗎？”

“Fine.”

“好吧。”

They talked about nothing. They did the dishes in complete silence. Remus stared out of the window into the blackness of the Potter grounds and looked for… something.

他們什麼也沒說。他們在完全的沉默中洗碗。Remus凝視著窗外Potter家的黑暗，看著……某些東西。

Finally, James came in, just as they finished putting away the last of the china.

最後，James進來了，正好他們把最後一個瓷器放好。

“All right, mate?” Sirius asked, cheerily.

“還好嗎，夥計？”Sirius高興地問道。

“Yeah,” James shrugged, looking somehow wiser; older. “Just dad stuff, y’know.”

“是的，”James聳了聳肩，看起來更聰明；更成熟。“只是爸爸的事情，你知道的。”

Sirius and Remus glanced at each other, and Remus knew they were both experiencing the same sour envy. What did it mean to have a father like Fleamont Potter? To have one at all?

Sirius和Remus互相看了一眼，Remus知道他們都在經歷同樣的酸溜溜的嫉妒。擁有像Fleamont Potter這樣的父親意味著什麼？擁有一個父親意味著什麼？

“I said I’d give Lily a ring, if you two fancied a walk into the village?”

“我說過我會給Lily打電話，如果你們兩個想去村子裡走走的話？”

“Why not.” Sirius said, leaving the dish rag over the tap.

“為什麼不呢。”Sirius說，把抹布放在水龍頭上。

“Oh, Moony, dad said to give you this?” James handed over a small scroll of paper. Remus opened it quickly, glancing over the neat name and address written there. James cocked his head, curious,

“哦，Moony，爸爸說給你這個？”James遞過來一張小紙卷。Remus迅速打開它，瞥了一眼上面寫著的整潔的名字和地址。James歪著頭，好奇地問，

“What is it?”

“這是什麼？”

“Oh nothing. Book I was asking about.” Remus stuffed it in his pocket. “C’mon. Calls are cheaper after six.”

“哦，沒什麼。我問的一本書。”Remus把它塞進口袋裡。“走吧。六點後打電話便宜些。”

James had finally learnt how to use the phone box unaided, so there was nothing for Remus to do but lean against the fence next to Sirius, waiting. He rolled cigarettes to pass the time; he’d cut the fingers off his gloves back in November for explicitly this purpose.

James終於學會了獨立使用電話亭，所以Remus無事可做，只能靠在Sirius旁邊的柵欄上等待。他捲香煙消磨時間；他在11月份為了這個目的剪掉了手套的指頭。

“I didn’t mean you.” Sirius said, quietly. “When I said dark creatures.”

“我不是指你。”Sirius輕聲說。“當我說黑暗生物時。”

“I know you didn’t.” Remus licked the rizla then smoothed it down. He handed the completed cigarette to Sirius, who took it and put it behind his ear. Remus began another one.

“我知道你不是。”Remus舔了舔捲紙，然後撫平它。他把完成的香煙遞給Sirius，Sirius接過來放在耳後。Remus開始捲另一根。

“Got to teach me how to do that one day.” Sirius murmured, watching him appreciatively. “I bet we could work out a spell to do it instantly.”

“總有一天你得教我怎麼做這個。”Sirius喃喃道，欣賞地看著他。“我打賭我們可以研究出一個瞬間完成它的咒語。”

“Probably,” Remus sighed, lining up tobacco. “But I like doing it this way.”

“可能吧，”Remus嘆了口氣，排好煙草。“但我喜歡這樣做。”

“Fair enough.”

“合理。”

They were quiet again. Remus finished his second one and held it between his thumb and forefinger, wondering whether or not to smoke it. Mrs Potter didn’t like the smell on them, and he hated to add to her troubles. But on the other hand, he could really use something to calm his nerves. Sirius could too, if the constant tapping of his leg was anything to go by. He was chewing his fingernails, too.

他們又沉默了。Remus完成了第二根煙，拿在拇指和食指之間，猶豫是否要抽。Potter夫人不喜歡他們身上的味道，他也不想增加她的麻煩。但另一方面，他真的需要點東西來平靜神經。如果根據他腿部不斷的敲擊來判斷，Sirius也需要。他還在咬指甲。

Remus lit the cigarette with a snap of his fingers, and inhaled. Sirius followed suit. His leg stilled.

Remus打了個響指點燃香煙，吸了一口。Sirius也跟著點燃。他的腿靜止了。

“I am, though.” Remus said, on an exhale.

“但我是。”Remus呼出一口氣說。

“What?”

“什麼？”

“A dark creature, like you said.”

“像你說的那樣，是個黑暗生物。”

“Moony, no…”

“Moony，不是…”

“Yep,” Remus nodded, gazing out at the fields before them, and the motorway behind that. “So when you talk about wanting to prove yourself, I do understand what you mean. People trust werewolves just about as much as they trust the disgraced sons of dark wizards.”

“是的，”Remus點點頭，凝視著前方的田野，和背後的高速公路。“所以當你說想要證明自己的時候，我確實理解你的意思。人們對狼人的信任程度和對黑巫師的恥辱之子的信任程度差不多。”

“I do know. I didn’t mean to act like…”

“我知道。我不是想表現得好像…”

“Like you’re the only one with a stake in this war?”

“好像你是這場戰爭中唯一有利害關係的人？”

“Yeah, like that. I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to.”

“是的，像那樣。我很抱歉。我不是故意的。”

“I know,” Remus smiled, looking at him, finally. “I’m sorry about Regulus.”

“我知道，”Remus微笑著，終於看著他。“我為Regulus感到抱歉。”

“Well.” Sirius scuffed his feet in the gravel, “I already knew, pretty much. Of course he was there.”

“嗯。”Sirius在礫石上磨蹭著腳，“我早就知道了，當然他會在那裡。”

“I’m going to work so hard on this Slytherin prank when we get back to school. It’ll be my best work.”

“我們回到學校後，我會非常努力地做這個斯萊特林惡作劇。這將是我最好的作品。”

Sirius laughed, an honest, abandoned noise, throwing his head back.

Sirius大笑起來，發出真誠的聲音，仰起頭。

“Godric, Moony.” He grinned broadly, “When you say things like that it makes me want to snog your face off.”

“Godric，Moony。”他咧嘴笑著說，“當你說這些話的時候，讓我想要親你。”

“Ha,” Remus snorted. He shot a look at James, inside the red phone box, jabbering away with a huge smile on his face, “Maybe not just yet…”

“哈，”Remus哼了一聲。他瞥了一眼在紅色電話亭裡，滿臉笑容地喋喋不休的James，“也許還不到時候…”

Sirius looked mournful again,

Sirius又看起來悲傷了，

“I’m going to tell him, just not with all this bad stuff going on, you know?”

“我要告訴他，只是不想在所有這些壞事發生的時候，你知道嗎？”

“I know.” Remus nodded. He did. He didn’t want Sirius to know it, but the idea of James finally finding out about them was much scarier than he had prepared himself for. Why shake everyone up again?

“我知道。”Remus點點頭。他明白。他不想讓Sirius知道，但James終於發現他們的事情這個想法比他準備的更可怕。為什麼要再一次攪亂所有人？

“Remus? If I ask you something, will you tell me the truth?”

“Remus？如果我問你一件事，你會告訴我真相嗎？”

“Ok.” His stomach clenched involuntary, but he steeled himself.

“好吧。”他的胃不由自主地抽搐了一下，但他堅定了自己。

“What was the note from James’s dad? It wasn’t a book title, was it?”

“James的爸爸給的那張紙條是什麼？那不是書名，是嗎？”

“No.” Remus agreed, “It wasn’t.” He reached inside his pocket and pulled it out, thumbing the soft, thick parchment for a moment before handing it over to Sirius.

“不是。”Remus同意道，“不是。”他伸手進口袋裡拿出來，揉了揉那張柔軟厚實的羊皮紙片片刻，然後遞給Sirius。

Sirius unfolded it quickly and looked down.

Sirius迅速展開它，低頭看了看。

“Hope Jenkins?” He read, a crease in his brow, “What does that mean?”

“Hope Jenkins？”他念道，眉頭皺了皺，“這是什麼意思？”

“It’s a name.” Remus said, quickly, “My mother’s name. And address.”

“這是一個名字。”Remus迅速說道，“我母親的名字和地址。”

“Oh!” Sirius breathed, re-reading it, still frowning. “Your mother.” He said the word as if he had never even considered the possibility that Remus had such a thing.

“哦！”Sirius呼吸著，又讀了一遍，仍然皺著眉。“你的母親。”他說這個詞彷彿他從未考慮過Remus有這樣一個人。

“Yeah,” Remus took the parchment back, shoving it back into his pocket. “I know we said we would talk about anything but mothers, but. Well. Dumbledore gave me a letter she’d written me, back after Lyall died. She said I could try to find her, when I was of age, so… Mr Potter found her, I s’pose.”

“是的，”Remus把羊皮紙拿回來，塞回口袋裡。“我知道我們說過不談論母親，但……Dumbledore給了我一封她在Lyall死後寫給我的信。她說我成年後可以試著去找她，所以……Potter先生找到了她，我猜。”

“What are you going to do with it? Write to her?”

“你打算怎麼做？寫信給她？”

“Yeah I think I will.”

“是的，我想我會。”

Sirius moved his hand on the fence, subtly brushing Remus’s fingers.

Sirius把手移到柵欄上，輕輕地刷過Remus的手指。

“Well. I hope you find her.”

“嗯。我希望你找到她。”

 

 

Mr Potter had been right – for the next few days, the house was busier than Remus had seen it since the Christmas party of ’73. Except, of course, there was very little cheer. These were the people closest to Dumbledore – many of them were working for the ministry, but all of them were loyal to him before anything else. They were the front line in the war effort.
Potter先生說得對——接下來的幾天，房子比Remus自73年聖誕派對以來見過的任何時候都要忙碌得多。當然，幾乎沒有什麼歡樂。這些人是最親近Dumbledore的人——他們中許多人在為部門工作，但所有人首先忠於他。他們是戰爭努力的前線。

Some of them were familiar faces – Moody, of course, who usually spared the time to cast a gruff nod at the three teenaged boys who were now spending their days watching the fireplace for new arrivals. Then there was Frank Longbottom himself, just as pleasant and good natured as Remus remembered. He came through most often with his girlfriend, Alice, the young woman who had ushered Sirius and Remus back on the day of the attack.
其中一些是熟悉的面孔——當然包括Moody，他通常會抽空向這三個整天盯著壁爐等候新來者的少年們粗魯地點頭。還有Frank Longbottom，他依然像Remus記憶中那樣愉快和善良。他通常和女友Alice一起來，Alice就是襲擊當天帶Sirius和Remus回來的年輕女子。

The Prewett twins were another surprise – James and Sirius were falling over themselves to catch up with them, and share every nefarious act they had committed at Hogwarts since the older boys’ departure. They had both grown very handsome, broad shouldered and rougher round the edges from a few adventures – but they still had their same easy tempers and wicked sense of humour. Often they brought their red-haired sister, and her equally flame-haired husband.
Prewett雙胞胎是另一個驚喜——James和Sirius爭先恐後地跟他們敘舊，分享他們在學校畢業後在霍格沃茨所做的每一件壞事。他們都變得非常英俊，寬肩膀，經歷了幾次冒險後變得更加粗獷——但他們依然保持著那種輕鬆的脾氣和惡作劇般的幽默感。他們經常帶著他們紅髮的妹妹和同樣火紅頭髮的丈夫來。

All of these guests only stopped to chat a few moments to James, Remus and Sirius, before vanishing into Mr Potter’s study, or else heading out into the garden to apparate (apparently Moody had placed a charm over the Potters’ house making it not only unplottable, but impossible to place an apparition trace on). As a consequence, the living room and entrance hall began to feel very much like platform 9 ¾.
這些客人只停下來和James、Remus和Sirius聊幾句，然後消失在Potter先生的書房裡，或者走到花園裡去幻影移形（顯然Moody給Potter家的房子施了一個咒語，使其不僅無法定位，還無法在上面放置幻影移形的痕跡）。因此，客廳和入口大廳開始感覺像9 ¾站台一樣。

In the evening’s, Mrs Potter would come home, looking worn out and determined. She would still have a smile for everyone, and be ready to host whoever was in the house for supper. She was nothing sort of spectacular.
晚上，Potter夫人回到家，看起來疲憊而堅定。她依然會對每個人微笑，並準備好招待家裡的任何人吃晚餐。她真是非凡極了。

The night before the boys were expected to return to Hogwarts, Moody, Frank and Alice were joining them for dinner – beef stew with dumplings. They were having a very pleasant evening, Frank and Remus were having a very intense discussion about defensive charms, and Alice and the boys (including Fleamont) were arguing over which quidditch team was going to win the league.
在男孩們預計返回霍格沃茨的前一晚，Moody、Frank和Alice與他們一起吃晚餐——牛肉燉餃子。他們度過了一個非常愉快的晚上，Frank和Remus進行了一場關於防禦咒語的激烈討論，而Alice和男孩們（包括Fleamont）則在爭論哪支魁地奇隊伍會贏得聯賽。

To Remus’s left, Moody leaned over to address Mrs Potter, and whispered,
在Remus的左邊，Moody俯身對Potter夫人說，

“I hear Ferox is getting out, tomorrow?”
“我聽說Ferox明天要出來了？”

“Getting out?!” Remus spun around, cutting frank off mid-flow, “Getting out of where?”
“出來？！" Remus轉過身來，打斷了Frank的話，“從哪裡出來？”

Moody raised an eyebrow, making his eerie magical eye bulge grotesquely,
Moody揚起眉毛，他那隻詭異的魔法眼睛怪異地凸起，

“Bloody good hearing you’ve got, lad. Make a good auror.”
“你聽力真好，孩子。會成為一個好傲羅。”

Remus shook his head impatiently,
Remus不耐煩地搖了搖頭，

“Professor Ferox?”
“Ferox教授？”

“Yes, dear,” Euphemia explained, calmly, “Leo Ferox was injured in the attack on Diagon Alley. He’s now stable, and will be going to stay with his grandmother for a while to recuperate fully. I’m sorry, I quite forgot he taught at Hogwarts, did you know him well?”
“是的，親愛的，”Euphemia冷靜地解釋，“Leo Ferox在對角巷的襲擊中受傷。他現在穩定了，將去和他的祖母住一段時間以完全康復。對不起，我完全忘了他在霍格沃茨教過書，你認識他嗎？”

“Sort of. He was my favourite teacher,” Remus said, his insides churning. “Is he… what happened? Was he in one of the shops?”
“算是吧。他是我最喜歡的老師，”Remus說，他的內心翻滾著。“他……發生了什麼？他在其中一家店裡嗎？”

“He was on the ground, in the battle with us,” Frank said, “He was in the thick of it, you couldn’t fault his technique, he was firing spells better than anyone, but we all get unlucky sometimes.”
“他在地面上，和我們一起戰鬥，”Frank說，“他在戰鬥的最前線，你無法挑剔他的技術，他施展咒語比任何人都好，但我們有時候運氣不好。”

“But he’ll be all right?” Remus put down his fork now, he wasn’t going to eat any more.
“但他會沒事嗎？”Remus現在放下了叉子，他不打算再吃了。

“With proper rest.” Mrs Potter nodded, smiling wanly.
“好好休息就會。”Potter夫人點點頭，微笑著說。

All of the terror Remus had been trying to ignore for the past few days came crashing back. He gripped the seat of his chair and stared at his plate and thought about Ferox, lying unconscious in the rubble. A good, strong man like that, shot down. Remus felt a stab of angry defiance in his gut, sharpening his focus. He was going to do better, no matter what it took. He was going to be quicker; braver. The next time the battle came to him, he would be ready.
過去幾天裡，Remus試圖忽視的所有恐懼都湧了上來。他緊握椅子的座位，盯著盤子，想著Ferox躺在瓦礫中的樣子。像那樣一個好人，強壯的人，被擊倒。Remus感到一陣憤怒的反抗，集中注意力。他無論如何都要做得更好。他要更快；更勇敢。下次戰鬥來臨時，他會準備好。

 

Chapter 127: Seventh Year: Responsibilities 

Monday 9th January 1978

Remus wrote three letters on his last night before school that Christmas break. Two would need a muggle stamp, and were to be posted into the red Royal Mail pillar box at the end of the road before they left for King’s Cross. The second could wait until he got to Hogwarts, and could use one of the school owls.
Remus在聖誕假期的最後一晚寫了三封信。兩封需要貼上麻瓜郵票，並在前往國王十字車站前投遞到路盡頭的紅色皇家郵筒中。第三封信可以等他到霍格沃茨後，用學校的貓頭鷹寄出。

The first was to Hope:

Dear Ms. Jenkins,

My name is Remus Lupin. My father was Lyall Lupin, and I believe I am your son.

I am now seventeen years old. I was given a letter written by you in 1965. I hope that you do not mind my writing to you. If you would like to write back, I would like that very much.

Yours Sincerely,

Remus John Lupin.

(He thought he had better sign off with his full name, though he would be very surprised if there was another Remus Lupin living in Britain. He also thought it best to keep it short and to the point. She would appreciate that, maybe, if she chose to ignore the letter.)
第一封信是給Hope的：
親愛的Jenkins女士：
我的名字是Remus Lupin。我的父親是Lyall Lupin，我相信我是您的兒子。
我現在十七歲了。我收到了一封您在1965年寫的信。希望您不介意我給您寫信。如果您願意回信，我會非常高興。
謹啟
Remus John Lupin
（他認為最好用全名簽署，雖然他會非常驚訝如果英國還有另一個叫Remus Lupin的人。他還認為最好簡明扼要。也許，如果她選擇忽視這封信，她會感激這樣的措辭。）

The second letter was to Grant:

Dear Grant,

I hope you had a nice Christmas. I wish I could have come to visit, but I stayed with my friend’s family and it’s hard to get away.

I hope you’re all right. How’s the job going? Have you saved up for a flat, yet? I’ll have to start thinking about that soon. It’s my last term of school, ever, and by June I will be living in the real world. I hope I can see you then.

Please write back as soon as you can, and let me know how you are doing.

Yours,

Remus.

(He didn’t want to put ‘yours sincerely’, because it seemed silly and over-formal. He didn’t want to put ‘love’, because that seemed very extreme. So in the end, ‘yours’, seemed the simplest, and most honest way to put it.)
第二封信是給Grant的：
親愛的Grant：
希望你有個愉快的聖誕節。我希望能去看你，但我和朋友的家人在一起，很難抽身。
希望你一切都好。工作進展如何？你攢夠錢買房子了嗎？我很快也要考慮這個問題了。這是我最後一個學期，到六月我就要進入現實世界了。希望到時能見到你。
請儘快回信，讓我知道你過得怎麼樣。
謹啟
Remus
（他不想寫“謹啟”，因為這看起來很傻，過於正式。他不想寫“愛”，因為這顯得非常極端。所以最後，“謹啟”似乎是最簡單、最誠實的方式。）

“So it’s just the Ferox letter still to post, then?” Sirius asked, as they took their seat in their usual carriage on the Hogwarts Express. They were completely alone – Peter had gone in search of Dorcas, who had apparently written him a very steamy letter over the Christmas break, while James and Lily had made a beeline for the prefect’s carriage.
“所以只剩下給Ferox的信還沒寄了，是嗎？”Sirius問道，當他們在霍格沃茨特快列車上找到他們常坐的車廂時。他們完全是獨處——Peter去找Dorcas了，聽說她在聖誕假期寫了一封非常火辣的信給他，而James和Lily則直接去了級長車廂。

“Just the Ferox one.” Remus nodded, patting his pocket. Sirius sat on the same bench as him, reclining back and stretching his legs out in Remus’s lap, arms folded behind his head. Remus snorted indulgently, “Make yourself comfortable, why don’t you.”
“只有Ferox的那封。”Remus點點頭，拍了拍口袋。Sirius坐在同一條長椅上，靠在背上，伸展雙腿放在Remus的腿上，雙臂交叉在頭後。Remus寵溺地哼了一聲，“隨便坐吧，你真是不客氣。”

“Don’t mind if I do.” Sirius grinned wickedly. “So.” He said, “Which letter are you most looking forward to getting a reply from?”
“那我就不客氣了。”Sirius狡猾地笑了笑。“那麼。”他說，“你最期待哪封信的回覆？”

“Which reply am I most looking forward to?” Remus quirked an eyebrow dryly, “You mean between my battle-wounded ex-teacher, my young-offender ex-boyfriend or the mother who abandoned me?”
“我最期待哪封回信？”Remus乾巴巴地挑了挑眉毛，“你是說在我受傷的前老師、我年少犯錯的前男友和拋棄我的母親之間？”

“Well, when you put it like that ,” Sirius tutted. “Honestly, the amount of stuff you keep back.”
“嗯，當你這麼說的時候，”Sirius咂咂嘴。“說真的，你藏了這麼多事情。”

“Would you rather I was whinging all the time?” Remus sighed, opening the book he’d brought for the journey on top of Sirius’s legs.
“你寧願我一直在抱怨嗎？”Remus嘆了口氣，打開了旅途中帶來的書，放在Sirius的腿上。

“No,” Sirius mused, staring up at the carriage ceiling thoughtfully. “But, I mean. If you didn’t have me to talk to about this stuff, I’d be worried your head would explode.”
“不，”Sirius若有所思地盯著車廂的天花板。“但我是說，如果你沒有我來談這些事情，我會擔心你的腦袋會爆炸。”

“It would not explode , thank you very much,” Remus slapped his knee lightly with the orange-covered penguin paperback. “You’re so dramatic. I coped perfectly well before you decided to involve yourself.”
“它不會爆炸，謝謝你，”Remus用橙色封面的企鵝平裝書輕輕拍了拍他的膝蓋。“你太戲劇化了。在你決定插手之前，我處理得很好。”

“How?!”
“怎麼處理？”

“Well.” Remus chewed his lip, “I er… you’ll think it’s stupid.”
“嗯。”Remus咬了咬嘴唇，“我……你會覺得這很愚蠢。”

“What?”
“什麼？”

“I… make lists, in my head. Benefits and losses. And sometimes I have pretend conversations, you know, to help me work through a problem…”
“我……在腦子裡列清單。優點和缺點。有時候我會假裝對話，你知道，幫助我解決問題……”

“Bloody hell, Moony,” Sirius sat up, spluttering. “You complete nutter.”
“我的天啊，Moony，”Sirius坐起來，噴笑道。“你真是個瘋子。”

Remus laughed,
Remus笑了起來，

“Yeah, ok. Maybe a bit mental.”
“是的，好吧。也許有點瘋狂。”

Sirius slid his feet off Remus’s lap and sidled up to him on the seat,
Sirius將腳從Remus的腿上滑下來，靠到他身邊的座位上，

“Ever had an imaginary conversation with me?”
“有過和我假裝的對話嗎？”

“No!” Remus replied, closing his eyes as he felt Sirius’ s breath on his neck. “I only have imaginary conversations with sensible people.”
“沒有！”Remus閉上眼睛，感受到Sirius的呼吸在他脖子上。“我只和理智的人假裝對話。”

“Well maybe that's where you’re going wrong…” Sirius began to kiss Remus, very lightly just behind his earlobe. Remus squirmed, the book dropped to the carriage floor.
“也許這就是你出錯的地方……”Sirius開始親吻Remus，非常輕輕地在他的耳垂後面。Remus扭動了一下，書掉到了車廂地板上。

Suddenly, the door began to rattle open, and giggles could be heard in the corridor. Sirius and Remus leapt apart just as Marlene and another girl stumbled inside,
突然，門開始嘎吱作響地打開，走廊裡傳來笑聲。Sirius和Remus猛地分開，正好Marlene和另一個女孩跌跌撞撞地進來，

“Oh!” Marlene’s eyes widened in surprise, cheeks turning pink, “Thought this car was empty…”
“哦！”Marlene的眼睛驚訝地睜大了，臉頰變紅，“以為這個車廂是空的……”

“Nope,” Sirius leaned back, looking amused. He was eyeing Marlene with a very wicked glint in his eye. He winked at the girl coming in behind her, a tall, dark haired sixth year Remus thought he vaguely recognised. “Patel.” Sirius nodded.
“不是，”Sirius靠了回去，看起來很有趣。他用非常狡黠的眼神盯著Marlene，對她身後進來的那個高大的黑髮六年級女生眨了眨眼。Remus覺得他模糊地認出了她。“Patel。”Sirius點點頭。

Oh god, Remus thought to himself, could Sirius possibly have old conquests I don’t even know about?!
哦天啊，Remus心想，Sirius可能有我不知道的舊情人嗎？！

“Remus, have you met Yasmin?” Marlene asked, taking a seat opposite him, “She's the new Keeper.”
“Remus，你見過Yasmin嗎？”Marlene問道，坐在他對面，“她是新的守門員。”

“Oh, right, hiya.” Remus nodded, giving an awkward wave.
“哦，對，嗨。”Remus點點頭，尷尬地揮了揮手。

“No Mary?” Sirius was raising an eyebrow at Marlene, as if he knew something. Remus was just confused and a bit flustered.
“沒有Mary嗎？”Sirius挑起眉毛看著Marlene，似乎知道些什麼。Remus只是困惑和有點慌亂。

“No Mary.” Yasmin answered, with a similar smirk.
“沒有Mary。”Yasmin回答，帶著類似的笑容。

“She’s talking to one of the Ravenclaw prefects,” Marlene said, quickly, “It’s not as if we’re deliberately avoiding her or anything!” Marlene looked… was she blushing ?! Why was everybody acting so oddly? Remus shifted in his seat, noting the weird atmosphere.
“她在和一個拉文克勞的級長說話，”Marlene迅速說道，“這並不是說我們故意躲著她或什麼的！”Marlene看起來……她在臉紅嗎？！為什麼每個人都表現得這麼奇怪？Remus在座位上移動了一下，注意到了奇怪的氣氛。

“Hm.” Sirius said, still smiling at Marlene smugly, “What were you two up to, then?”
“嗯。”Sirius說，仍然得意地對Marlene微笑，“那麼你們兩個在做什麼？”

Yasmin tutted, and looked him dead in the eye with a wry smile of her own.
Yasmin咂咂嘴，帶著自己的苦笑直視他的眼睛。

“Nothing. What were you two up to?” She raised a suggestive eyebrow and Remus nearly leapt up with shock. She knew ?! Just who was this Yasmin person, then?
“沒什麼。你們兩個在做什麼？”她挑起一條暗示性的眉毛，Remus差點驚跳起來。她知道？！那麼這個Yasmin到底是誰？

“Nothing!” Sirius sat up straight.
“沒什麼！”Sirius坐直了身子。

“Well then.” Marlene shrugged, her face clearing as she settled back in her seat looking like she had just won a particularly rewarding game of chess. “We’ll leave it at that, then, shall we?”
“那好吧。”Marlene聳聳肩，她的臉色變得清晰，像是剛贏了一局特別有趣的棋局一樣回到座位上。“那我們就這樣吧，好嗎？”

“Fine.” Sirius leaned back too, folding his arms. Yasmin giggled, and Remus just scratched his head.
“好吧。”Sirius也靠了回去，雙臂交叉。Yasmin咯咯笑了起來，Remus只是抓了抓頭。

“What are we leaving where?” He asked Sirius, later that evening. They were making their way slowly up to the owlery before curfew. He’d eaten a lot at dinner, and was somewhat regretting it, now.
“我們在什麼地方留下了什麼？”他那天晚上問Sirius。他們在宵禁前慢慢走向貓頭鷹棚。他在晚餐時吃了很多，現在有點後悔了。

“Moony, really.” Sirius laughed, “Someone as observant as you hasn’t noticed anything different about Marlene, lately?”
“Moony，真的。”Sirius笑道，“像你這麼觀察入微的人最近沒注意到Marlene有什麼不同嗎？”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” He panted, struggling as always with the spiral staircase.
“我不知道你在說什麼。”他喘著氣，一如既往地在螺旋樓梯上掙扎。

Remus didn’t want to admit that if he was observant, it was only Sirius he was observing. He typically regarded the girls as a complete mystery, and rarely had any idea what was going on with them unless they explicitly told him. Lily and Mary did this more often than Marlene, who had always been as private as he was.
Remus不想承認，如果他很觀察入微，那也是他只在觀察Sirius。他通常認為女生是一個完全的謎團，除非她們明確告訴他，否則他很少知道她們在做什麼。Lily和Mary比Marlene更常這麼做，後者一直和他一樣保守。

“Oh come on, Moony,” Sirius laughed, “Marlene and Yaz? Don’t tell me you didn’t see - they were all over each other before they realised the carriage wasn’t empty.”
“哦，拜託，Moony，”Sirius笑道，“Marlene和Yaz？別告訴我你沒看出來——在她們發現車廂不是空的之前，她們都纏在一起了。”

Remus stopped - partly because he needed a moment to catch his breath, partly because he couldn’t believe what Sirius was saying.
Remus停了下來——部分是因為他需要喘口氣，部分是因為他不敢相信Sirius在說什麼。

“You mean, Marlene is…?”
“你是說，Marlene是……？”

“Yep.”
“是的。”

“And Yasmin…”
“還有Yasmin……”

“Yep.”
“是的。”

“Bloody hell.”
“我的天啊。”

“Yep.” Sirius’s eyes were glittering mischievously. “Can’t believe you hadn’t figured it out already!”
“是的。”Sirius的眼睛閃爍著淘氣的光芒。“真不敢相信你還沒看出來！”

“Well.” Remus huffed. They were nearly at the top, now. “I’m pretty impressed that you did. Seeing as you apparently had no idea about me, after we’d been shagging for a year.”
“嗯。”Remus哼了一聲。他們快到頂樓了。“我對你能看出來很佩服。看起來你對我卻毫無頭緒，儘管我們已經搞了一年了。”

“It wasn’t a whole year.” Sirius replied, defensively, reaching the top and looking around furtively, before continuing into the empty room.
“不是整整一年。”Sirius辯解道，到達頂樓，四處張望了一下，然後走進了空房間。

Remus came in behind him, and looked for an appropriate owl. It wasn’t a long journey, he didn’t think. He seemed to remember Ferox telling him that his grandmother lived in Liverpool. It had been a difficult letter to write, but necessary, considering they had last parted on difficult terms. He simply hoped Ferox was well, and added in a few inconsequential details about his NEWT preparation.
Remus跟在他後面進來，尋找合適的貓頭鷹。他認為這不是一次長途旅行。他似乎記得Ferox告訴他，他的祖母住在利物浦。這封信很難寫，但很有必要，考慮到他們最後是在困難的情況下分開的。他只是希望Ferox一切都好，並添加了一些關於他NEWT準備的無關緊要的細節。

“So if Marlene knows…” Remus said, thoughtfully, tying the letter to his chosen owl’s leg.
“那麼如果Marlene知道……”Remus若有所思地說，將信綁在他選中的貓頭鷹的腿上。

“Yeah, I know. James next.” Sirius sighed.
“是的，我知道。下一個是James。”Sirius嘆了口氣。

“I don’t mean to keep bringing it up...” Remus said, apologetically, setting the owl free to fly out of the nearest window. He watched it go.
“我不是想一直提起這件事……”Remus抱歉地說，讓貓頭鷹飛出最近的窗戶。他看著它飛走。

“No, I promised I would do it.” Sirius threw up his hands. “Anyway, this term’s going to be enough of a nightmare what with NEWTs and the war… rather not have anything else to worry about.”
“不，我答應了會做。”Sirius揮了揮手。“無論如何，這個學期因為NEWTs和戰爭已經夠噩夢了……不想再有其他事情操心了。”

“Are you nervous?”
“你緊張嗎？”

“Shitting myself.”
“緊張死了。”

“Lovely.” Remus rolled his eyes, “Can I help?”
“真可愛。”Remus翻了個白眼，“我能幫忙嗎？”

“Not if you’re going to suggest me having an imaginary conversation with Prongs…”
“如果你打算建議我和Prongs進行想像中的對話，那就不行……”

“Don’t see why not,” Remus shrugged. “Prongs is easy to do. Nice and predictable.”
“我不明白為什麼不行，”Remus聳了聳肩。“Prongs很好模仿。友好且可預測。”

“Mm, unlike some.” Sirius murmured. “Anyway, it’s not what he’ll say that I’m worried about. I know what he’ll say. It’ll be like it was when you… um…”
“嗯，不像某些人。”Sirius咕噥道。“無論如何，我擔心的不是他會說什麼。我知道他會說什麼。就像當你……呃……”

“...came out…” Remus prompted, helpfully. Sirius nodded, bashfully.
“……出櫃……”Remus幫忙提醒。Sirius害羞地點點頭。

“I know he’ll be his usual righteous self. I’m more worried about the stuff he doesn’t say...”
“我知道他會像往常一樣正義。我更擔心的是他不說的那些……”

“Well.” Remus said, turning away from the window, “There’s nothing you can do about that.”
“嗯。”Remus說，轉身離開窗戶，“你對此無能為力。”

“Black?! Bla-aaack? Oi, Padfoot!” Sirius's pocket began shouting at him. Sirius grinned, fishing out his compact mirror and opening it,
“Black？！Bla-aaack？喂，Padfoot！”Sirius的口袋開始對他喊叫。Sirius笑了，掏出他的化妝鏡並打開它，

“Speak of the devil.”
“說曹操曹操到。”

“Where are you, tosser?” James’s voice boomed out of the mirror.
“你在哪裡，白痴？”James的聲音從鏡子裡傳出來。

“Owlery.”
“貓頭鷹棚。”

“Moony with you?”
“Moony在你那裡嗎？”

“Yep.”
“是的。”

“Dumbledore wants him.”
“Dumbledore要找他。”

“Right now?!” Sirius glanced up at Remus, whose stomach sank. This was never good.
“現在？！”Sirius抬頭看了看Remus，後者的胃沉了下去。這從來都不是好兆頭。\

 

One hour later

一小時後

Remus was not surprised to find all three marauders (and Lily - who by this point may as well have her own nickname and access to the map, anyway) waiting outside of Dumbledore’s office for him. He was grateful - he was in such a state that if he’d had to walk back to the tower alone he’d probably have got lost.

Remus 發現三個掠奪者（還有 Lily——到了這個時候，她也差不多該有個自己的綽號並且能使用地圖了）在鄧不利多的辦公室外面等他時並不驚訝。他很感激——他現在這種狀態，如果要自己走回塔樓，他可能會迷路。

“Well?” Sirius asked, eager as always to be the first to know.

“那麼？”Sirius 像往常一樣急切地想要第一個知道。

“Um.” Said Remus.

“嗯。”Remus 說。

“Come on,” Lily said, taking his arm gently, “You don’t have to tell us, we just wanted to know you’re ok.”

“來吧，”Lily 輕輕地抓住他的手臂說，“你不必告訴我們，我們只想知道你還好嗎。”

“Of course he has to tell us.” Sirius frowned. Remus gave him a warning glance.

“當然他得告訴我們。”Sirius 皺眉道。Remus 給了他一個警告的眼神。

“Can we go somewhere a bit more private? Not the common room…”

“我們能去個更私密的地方嗎？不是公共休息室……”

“Dorm room?” Peter suggested.

“宿舍？”Peter 建議。

“Yeah.” Remus nodded.

“對。”Remus 點點頭。

He wouldn’t speak to them until they got there, and used the time to work out exactly how he was going to explain without hurting at least Sirius’s feelings, never mind wounding James’s pride. Dumbledore hadn’t said he couldn’t tell anyone. Only to exercise caution with who he told. For your safety, and theirs, the old man had cautioned ominously. Remus still had serious doubts about whether or not Dumbledore was all that concerned for his safety, personally, but kept his mouth shut. You had to be careful what you said, in Remus’s position.

在到達之前，他不會對他們說話，並利用這段時間思考該如何解釋才能不傷害至少 Sirius 的感情，更不用說傷害 James 的自尊。鄧不利多並沒有說他不能告訴任何人，只是要謹慎告訴誰。為了你的安全，還有他們的安全，那老人陰沉地警告。Remus 仍然非常懷疑鄧不利多是否真的那麼關心他的安全，但他保持了沉默。在 Remus 的立場上，你必須謹慎言行。

Finally, they all piled into the marauder’s dorm room - even Lily, which was a bit weird, especially when she sat herself down on James’s bed, as if she had done it a hundred times before. Remus sat on the lid of his trunk. Hadn’t even had time to unpack, yet.

最後，他們全都擠進了掠奪者的宿舍——甚至連 Lily 也來了，這有點奇怪，尤其是當她坐在 James 的床上時，就像她已經這樣做了一百次一樣。Remus 坐在他的箱子蓋上。還沒有時間解開行李。

“So?!” Sirius asked again, impatient, leaning against his bedpost, “What did Dumbledore want?”

“那麼？！”Sirius 不耐煩地再次問道，靠在床柱上，“鄧不利多要什麼？”

“He gave me an assignment.” Remus stared at the worn out rug as he said this, not meeting anyone’s eyes. He still couldn’t quite believe it himself.

“他給了我一個任務。”Remus 盯著破舊的地毯說，沒有看任何人的眼睛。他自己也還無法完全相信。

“He what?!” James surprised Remus by speaking first. “He gave you … not any of us?”

“他什麼？！”James 搶先說話，讓 Remus 感到驚訝。“他給了你……不是我們中的任何一個？”

“James,” Lily said, sharply, touching her boyfriend’s arm, “It’s obviously something Remus is best suited for.”

“James，”Lily 尖銳地說，碰了碰男朋友的手臂，“這顯然是 Remus 最適合的事情。”

“Werewolves.” Sirius said. Remus looked up and met his eye. He looked upset, so Remus smiled.

“狼人。”Sirius 說。Remus 抬頭看著他的眼睛。他看起來很不高興，所以 Remus 笑了。

“Yeah. Done it before, haven’t I?”

“是啊。我以前做過，不是嗎？”

“You’ve done…” Lily started, then shook her head, as if thinking better of it. “What does he need from you? Why now?”

“你做過……”Lily 開始說，然後搖了搖頭，似乎改變了主意。“他需要你做什麼？為什麼是現在？”

“They think there’s one in Hogsmeade,” Remus explained, slowly, “The centaurs told him, or something.” (He was foggy on those details, because when Dumbledore had been explaining it Remus had been trying very hard not to throw up from nerves), “Dumbledore wants me to um… ‘make my presence known,’ next time I’m in town. See if it… er… takes the bait.”

“他們認為霍格莫德有一個，”Remus 慢慢解釋道，“是半人馬告訴他的，或者什麼的。”（他對那些細節有些模糊，因為當鄧不利多解釋的時候，Remus 一直在努力不讓自己因為緊張而嘔吐）， “鄧不利多希望我，下次我在鎮上時，呃……‘表明我的存在’。看看它是否……呃……上鉤。”

“Bait?!” Sirius practically shouted.

“餌？！”Sirius 幾乎大喊。

“...It’s just an expression.” Remus replied.

“……這只是一種表達方式。”Remus 回答。

“Not a great one,” Peter said, nervously, chewing his nails.

“不是很好的表達方式，”Peter 緊張地說，啃著指甲。

“Sorry.” Remus shrugged. “Don’t worry about me. If there is a werewolf, and it’s one of Greyback’s, then I don’t think I’m in any danger. He wants me to join him, remember?”

“對不起。”Remus 耸了耸肩。“不要擔心我。如果有一個狼人，而且是 Greyback 的手下，那麼我認為我沒有危險。他希望我加入他，記得嗎？”

“Yeah, I remember getting my own invitation to join that side.” Sirius said, with a shiver. Remus wished he hadn’t brought that up. The last image he needed in his head right now was Sirius’s unconscious body falling out of the Potters’ fireplace on that horrible night.

“是的，我記得自己收到過邀請，加入那一邊。”Sirius 顫抖著說。Remus 希望他沒有提到這個。他現在最不需要的畫面就是那個可怕的夜晚，Sirius 昏迷的身體從 Potters 家的壁爐中掉出來。

“It’s not going to be like that.” He said, stiffly. “Nothing might happen at all, they might not even be here for me. And I was ok, last time, wasn’t I?”

“事情不會那樣的。”他僵硬地說。“可能什麼都不會發生，他們可能根本不是為了我來的。上次我不也是沒事嗎？”

“Only because Ferox showed up!” Sirius had forgotten that they weren’t alone, he was gearing up for a proper row.

“只是因為 Ferox 出現了！”Sirius 忘記了他們不是單獨在一起，他準備好了一場正經的爭吵。

“I know, but I’m of age, now… I’ll know what to expect.” Remus tried to keep his own voice placid, hoping it would remind Sirius to keep himself in check.

“我知道，但我已經成年了……我會知道該期待什麼。”Remus 試圖保持自己的聲音平靜，希望這能提醒 Sirius 控制自己。

“It’s so dangerous, Remus!” Lily started.

“太危險了，Remus！”Lily 開始說。

“I know that too, but I wasn’t exactly given a choice!” He snapped. She lowered her head and pursed her lips. He hadn’t meant to raise his voice to her, but he’d have to feel bad about it later. Just now it was too much to ask.

“我也知道，但我並沒有選擇的餘地！”他嚴厲地說。她低下頭，緊閉雙唇。他並不想對她提高嗓門，但他得以後再為此感到內疚。現在這要求太高了。

“When?” Sirius asked, calmer than before.

“什麼時候？”Sirius 問，比之前冷靜了。

“Next Hogsmeade weekend.”

“下個霍格莫德週末。”

“That’s in two weeks.” James said, “After the next moon…”

“那就是兩週後。”James 說，“在下一次月圓之後……”

“They’re going to increase security in the village, obviously.” Remus said. “After last time.”

“顯然，他們會增加村莊的安全。”Remus 說。“上次之後。”

“Ok, I’m going to need a few things explained, here…” Lily said, a deep crease in her forehead.

“好的，我需要一些解釋……”Lily 說，眉頭緊鎖。

“James, would you?” Remus pleaded, “I think I just want to go to bed…”

“James，可以嗎？”Remus 懇求道，“我想我只想上床睡覺……”

“Yeah, of course.” James nodded, springing into action at once. “We can talk about this tomorrow, when everyone’s had some time.”

“是的，當然。”James 點點頭，立刻行動起來。“我們可以明天再談這個，等大家都有些時間。”

“Thanks.” Remus smiled, weakly, getting up, thinking to go and brush his teeth, looking forward to being alone in the bathroom for a few minutes to collect himself.

“謝謝。”Remus 虛弱地笑了笑，站起來，打算去刷牙，期待能在浴室裡獨處幾分鐘來整理自己。

“Moony?” James said quickly, as the others got up, “I didn’t mean that you shouldn’t get an assignment, or that you can’t do it, or anything--”

“Moony？”James 很快地說，當其他人起身時，“我不是說你不應該得到任務，或者你不能完成，或者什麼的——”

“I know,” Remus nodded, patting him on the shoulder. “Believe me, if you or Sirius could do it instead, I wouldn't be Dumbledore’s first pick. S’pose I just got lucky, eh?”

“我知道，”Remus 點點頭，拍了拍他的肩膀。“相信我，如果你或 Sirius 能代替做這件事，我不會是鄧不利多的首選。假設我只是運氣好，嗯？”

Inside the locked bathroom, he pressed his back against the door, and tried to regulate his breathing. Now that his friends knew, it all became much more real to him. The thought that had been gnawing away at him since Dumbledore had first described the task finally sank in. You never actually thought he would ask this. Remus chastised himself, you never really believed you would be useful. Be careful what you wish for, Loony Lupin.

在鎖上的浴室裡，他背靠著門，試圖調節自己的呼吸。現在他的朋友們知道了，這一切變得更加真實。自從鄧不利多第一次描述這個任務以來一直困擾他的想法終於沉澱下來。你從沒想過他會要求這個。Remus 自責道，你從未真正相信你會有用。小心你所願望的，Loony Lupin。

Dizzy and trembling, he now pressed his ear to the bathroom door. They had all left the room. All but one. He wrenched the door open without a second thought, and stood face to face with Sirius.

頭昏眼花，渾身顫抖，他現在將耳朵貼在浴室門上。他們全都離開了房間。除了其中一人。他毫不猶豫地打開門，與 Sirius 面對面站著。

“You ok?” Sirius asked, his cool blue eyes full of concern. Remus shook his head.

“你還好嗎？”Sirius 問，他那雙冷靜的藍眼睛充滿了關切。Remus 搖了搖頭。

“No.”

“不好。”

Sirius reached out, and Remus clung to him.

Sirius 伸出手，Remus 緊緊抱住他。

 

Chapter 128: Seventh Year: Preparation 

Strange it is to be beside you, many years and tables turned

You'd probably not believe me if told you all I've learned

And it is very very weird, indeed

To hear words like "forever" plead

Those ships run through my mind I cannot cheat

It's like looking in the teacher's face complete

I can say nothing to you but repeat

what I heard;

That love is just a four letter word.

 Tuesday 9th January 1978

 

1978年1月9日星期二

“Right, Moony,” James marched into the great hall the next morning carrying a pile of books he could barely see over. He slammed them all down on the breakfast table in front of Remus, disrupting the porridge he had been picking at. He didn’t have much of an appetite, somehow.

“Moony，”第二天早上James帶著一堆書走進大禮堂，他幾乎看不見前方。他把書全都砸在Remus面前的早餐桌上，打亂了他正在挑來挑去的粥。他不知為什麼沒有什麼食欲。

“What are these?” He reached over to pick up the nearest book. Advanced Defensive Spells.

“這些是什麼？”他伸手拿起最近的一本書。《高級防禦咒語》。

“Potter,” Lily straightened her back, staring over the pile with a look of bemusement, “Have you been in the library?! In the morning?! Instead of flying?!”

“Potter，”Lily挺直了背，看著那堆書，滿臉困惑，“你去圖書館了？！早上？！而不是去飛行？！"

“We need to get Moony prepared, Lily!”

“我們需要讓Moony做好準備，Lily！”

“But… you said mornings were sacred to you!” Sirius said.

“但是…你說早上對你來說是神聖的！”Sirius說。

“You said you had to pay homage to the gods of the quidditch pitch!” Peter grinned.

“你說你必須向魁地奇場的神靈致敬！”Peter咧嘴笑道。

“I can miss one morning.” James said, dismissively.

“我可以錯過一個早上。”James漫不經心地說。

“Prongs!” Remus grabbed his hand, and gushed at him dramatically, “I’m touched.”

“Prongs！”Remus抓住他的手，戲劇性地對他說，“我感動了。”

“Gerrof,” James snatched his hand back, ears turning bright red. “You can all stop making fun of me. Am I the only one taking this seriously?!”

“放開，”James把手抽回來，耳朵變得通紅。“你們都別再取笑我了。難道只有我在認真對待這件事嗎？！”

“Hey!” Sirius smirked. Remus and Peter groaned in anticipation of what was coming, “I am always Sirius.”

“嘿！”Sirius得意地笑了。Remus和Peter因為預感到接下來的事而哼哼起來，“我永遠是Sirius。”

Peter and Remus covered their eyes in embarrassment, but it must have been the first time Lily had ever heard that joke because she snorted with laughter so suddenly that her tea shot out of her nose. This was the funniest thing that even the marauders had seen in ages, and they were all hysterical for a good five minutes - each time any of them managed to stop, Lily would snort again, or James would waggle his eyebrows and they would be helpless with laughter once more.

Peter和Remus尷尬地遮住了眼睛，但這可能是Lily第一次聽到這個笑話，因為她突然大笑起來，茶水從她鼻子裡噴了出來。即使是掠奪者們也很久沒見過這麼好笑的事了，他們都狂笑了好幾分鐘——每次他們中的任何一個人好不容易停止笑，Lily又會哼笑起來，或者James會擺動他的眉毛，他們又會無助地再次笑得前仰後合。

When they’d finally calmed down, Remus opened the first book eagerly and decided that he would eat his porridge after all.

當他們終於平靜下來時，Remus急切地打開了第一本書，決定還是要吃他的粥。

They went to their lessons with a new sense of purpose, and James suggested that they all meet in the library after the last bell to begin work on preparing Remus for whatever was ahead. They did this every day for a whole week, commandeering a block of six desks behind some stacks in a corner, where they could have complete privacy, pushed them all together and covered the thing in textbooks on battle theory, duelling techniques, defensive incantations and hexes. Peter even made a threatening sign which read Marauder’s War Council: Do Not Disturb, which worked like a charm (possibly because it had been literally charmed by Lily) and meant they could leave their work there and return to it whenever they liked.

他們懷著新的目標去上課，James建議他們在最後一節課後在圖書館見面，開始為Remus準備即將面臨的挑戰。他們整整一週每天都這樣做，佔據了一角堆放書堆後的六張桌子，在那裡他們可以完全隱私，將桌子推到一起，堆滿了戰鬥理論、決鬥技巧、防禦咒語和詛咒的教科書。Peter甚至製作了一個威脅性的標誌，上面寫著“掠奪者戰爭委員會：請勿打擾”，效果奇佳（可能是因為Lily施了咒語），這意味著他們可以隨時離開並回來繼續工作。

Remus abandoned his study groups, asking Christopher to take over, James nominated Marlene to take over two of his quidditch sessions, and even Lily stopped going to Slug Club meetings that week. (Though she did try to break into Slughorn’s study to get her hands on some Felix Felicis for Remus, but had no luck and was almost caught). In short, all five of them spent as much time as possible working towards the same cause; preparing Remus for his mission.

Remus放棄了他的學習小組，請Christopher接管，James提名Marlene接管他的兩節魁地奇訓練，甚至Lily那週也停止參加Slug Club會議。（雖然她試圖闖入Slughorn的書房為Remus拿到一些福靈劑，但沒有成功，差點被抓到）。總之，他們五個人盡可能多地花時間為同一個目標努力；為Remus的任務做準備。

He had been teasing James before, but Remus really was touched - only there was hardly any time to dwell on it, as they all knuckled down to study harder than any of them ever had before. Remus just thanked his lucky stars that James was so good at defense against the dark arts; they’d never had a teacher stay longer than a year in that subject, so Remus’s own knowledge was patchy. James and Lily’s combined efforts helped him cover more ground in a week than he had since his OWLs.

他之前一直在取笑James，但Remus真的感動了——只是他們幾乎沒有時間去思考這個問題，因為他們都比以往任何時候都更加努力地學習。Remus只能感謝他的幸運星，James在黑魔法防禦術上如此出色；他們從未有過一個老師在這門課程上停留超過一年的，所以Remus自己的知識是零散的。James和Lily的共同努力幫助他在一週內覆蓋了自OWLs以來更多的知識。

“You’re good at charms, and that’s half the battle.” James said, appraisingly, as they stood in the empty common room one evening, “The rest is really just quick thinking and determination.”

“你擅長咒語，這就是一半的戰鬥。”James評價道，當他們有一天晚上站在空蕩的公共休息室裡，“剩下的就是快速思考和決心。”

“And we know you can do those.” Lily encouraged, tidying up the mess they’d made trying to freeze sofa cushions mid-air.

“我們知道你能做到這些。”Lily鼓勵道，收拾他們試圖在空中凍結沙發靠墊時弄亂的場地。

“It won’t be like Diagon Alley,” Sirius reassured him, slapping him on the back, “Because you’ll know what’s coming. You’ve got time to get ready.”

“這不會像對角巷那樣，”Sirius安慰他，拍了拍他的背，“因為你會知道接下來會發生什麼。你有時間準備。”

“Easy enough to say…” Remus bit his lip. “I’m ok at most of this, here, with you lot, but if I was actually defending myself… and I still can’t do a patronus.”

“說起來容易……”Remus咬了咬嘴唇。“在這裡，和你們在一起，我大部分都還可以，但如果我要真正保護自己……我還是不能施展護法。”

“Don’t worry about that, now, just focus on the simpler stuff.” James advised, rubbing his chin, “The patronus will come - it’s not as if you’re not strong enough; you apparate like it’s nothing.”

“現在不要擔心那個，只專注於簡單的東西。”James建議道，摸著下巴，“護法咒會來的——並不是說你不夠強大；你幻影移形就像不費吹灰之力。”

“That’s easy.” Remus sighed. “That’s just thinking. Patronuses are feeling.”

“那很容易。”Remus嘆了口氣。“那只是思考。護法咒是感覺。”

“Could somebody please let me down, now?” Peter called from above their heads, where he had been paralysed mid-air.

“現在能有人讓我下來嗎？”Peter從他們頭頂上方叫道，他在空中被定住了。

Dear Remus,

親愛的Remus，

Thank you for writing to me. My Christmas was good. I never had turkey before, it was nice.

感謝你寫信給我。我的聖誕節過得很好。我以前從未吃過火雞，味道很好。

No flat yet but I am trying. Still staying with my aunt as you will see from the address, but I like it here. I like the sea and may learn to swim.

還沒有找到公寓，但我正在努力。還是住在我姑媽家，從地址上你可以看到，但我喜歡這裡。我喜歡大海，可能會學游泳。

I’ve been seeing a lad down here, but he ain’t as clever as you. Nice body though.

我在這裡見了一個小伙子，但他沒你聰明。不過身材不錯。

I miss you very much.

我非常想念你。

Your Grant. xxx

你的Grant。xxx

Dear Remus,

親愛的Remus，

Thank you for your letter, I was so pleased to hear from you.

感謝你的來信，我很高興收到你的消息。

I would like to begin by assuring you that I am quite well following the events in Diagon Alley over Christmas. I was sorry to hear that you and your friends were there too - I had hoped the war would be long over by the time you were ready to leave school.

首先，我想向你保證，聖誕節在對角巷發生的事件後，我很好。我很遺憾聽到你和你的朋友也在那裡——我曾希望等你們準備好離開學校時，戰爭早已結束。

I will be staying with my grandmother for a while longer. but expect to be back to work no later than Easter. I’ve no doubt you will understand why I can’t say any more than that.

我會再和祖母待一段時間，但預計不會遲於復活節回到工作崗位。我毫不懷疑你會理解為什麼我不能多說。

Best of luck with the NEWTs.

祝你NEWTs考試順利。

L. Ferox.

L. Ferox。

 

Sunday 15th January 1978

1978年1月15日，星期天

By the following weekend, they had definitely hit their stride, and Remus was feeling more confident than ever - as long as he didn’t think too much about Livia’s incredible ability with wandless magic. He tried to convince himself that he was over-prepared, if anything. Dumbledore had merely required him to show his face in Hogsmeade, to see if this other wolf (if there even was another wolf) sniffed him out. He might never use anything James had taught him at all. 到了下週末，他們確實找到了狀態，而Remus比以往任何時候都更有信心——只要他不去想Livia那令人難以置信的無杖魔法能力。他試圖說服自己，他過度準備了。Dumbledore只是要求他在Hogsmeade露面，看看這只狼（如果真的有另一只狼）是否會嗅出他。他可能永遠不會用上James教他的任何東西。

Yeah, right - that nasty voice in the back of his head spoke; always late at night, when everyone else was asleep and he was most alone - as if you’ve ever been that lucky. 是啊，對——那討厭的聲音在他腦海中響起；總是在深夜，當其他人都睡著而他最孤單的時候——好像你曾經那麼幸運過。

They spent all day Saturday in the library, all five of them, but on Sunday Lily was required to mediate a prefect dispute and Peter had an afternoon detention for poor uniform, so for a good portion of the day it was just Remus, James and Sirius working in their quiet little study nook. 他們整個星期六都在圖書館度過，五個人都在，但週日Lily需要調解一個級長的爭端，而Peter因為穿著不整而在下午被罰留校，所以大部分時間只有Remus、James和Sirius在他們安靜的小書房裡學習。

Sirius and James were on the blacklist for the restricted section, so Remus went in alone, and came back with the biggest book on curses he could find. Sirius和James被限制進入限制區，所以Remus獨自進去，帶回了他能找到的最大的一本咒語書。

“There are some second years on the other side of the hall taking bets on whether we’re really behind studying for NEWTs or just planning the most amazing prank Hogwarts has ever seen.” He said, setting the huge tome down on top of three more. “有些二年級的學生在大廳的另一邊打賭我們是否真的在為NEWTs考試而學習，還是只是計劃霍格沃茲有史以來最驚人的惡作劇。”他說，把那本巨大的書放在另外三本書上。

“I’m so proud of our legacy, aren’t you, Mr Prongs?” Sirius smirked over the book he was taking notes from. “我為我們的遺產感到如此自豪，不是嗎，Mr Prongs？”Sirius在他做筆記的書上得意地笑著說。

“Quite so, Mr Padfoot, quite so.” James replied, scanning a glossary. “Ah ha!” He grabbed a book triumphantly, and began flipping pages. “確實如此，Mr Padfoot，確實如此。”James回答道，掃視著一本術語表。“啊哈！”他得意地抓起一本書，開始翻頁。

Sirius looked up. Sirius抬起頭來。

“Found something good?” “找到什麼好東西了嗎？”

“Maybe…” James murmured, reading fast. “也許吧……”James低聲說，快速閱讀著。

Remus began to look at the contents of the book of curses. The chapter titles were truly horrible, and he hoped he’d never actually have to use any of this stuff. Remus開始查看那本咒語書的內容。章節標題真的很可怕，他希望自己永遠不會真的需要用到這些東西。

“Ok,” James said, “Look at this.” He had finished reading, and flipped the book to show Remus and Sirius, who were on the other side of the table. “I really think this sort of thing plays to your strengths, Moony. It's all intuitive stuff with a lot of punch behind it, the way you do pranks.” “好了，”James說，“看看這個。”他讀完了，把書翻過來給桌子另一邊的Remus和Sirius看。“我真的認為這種東西發揮了你的特長，Moony。這都是一些直觀的東西，背後有很多力量，就像你做惡作劇的方式。”

Sirius and Remus both stood to pore over the book, leaning forward on the desk. Remus's shoulders were still so sore from the last moon - the pain-free days between moons seemed to be getting shorter the older he got; his tendons felt like hard knotted rope rubbing against the bone. He stretched to rub a particularly sore spot while he read, pressing down with his fingertips and breathing in slightly at the pain. Sirius和Remus都站起來仔細閱讀那本書，向桌子上靠近。Remus的肩膀仍然因為上次的滿月而疼痛——在滿月之間沒有痛苦的日子似乎隨著年齡的增長而變得越來越短；他的肌腱感覺像硬繩子結在骨頭上摩擦。他伸展身體揉了揉一個特別疼的地方，用指尖按壓，稍微吸氣以緩解疼痛。

Sirius moved closer, and - perhaps without thinking - reached out to rub the sore spot with his own long fingers. He was much better at it than Remus, who felt a wave of relief as Sirius worked small, soothing circles into his muscle. He sighed, tiredly. Sirius靠近了，或許是無意識地，用他自己的長手指伸手揉了揉那個疼痛的地方。他比Remus做得好得多，當Sirius在他的肌肉上畫著小而舒緩的圈時，Remus感到一陣放鬆。他疲憊地嘆了口氣。

Remus was the first to finish reading, and looked up at James. The bespectacled young man was not looking at the text, though. He was staring at them, across the table. Specifically at the point where Sirius's hand was touching Remus's neck. James’s mouth had fallen slightly open, and there was a question in his eyes. Remus是第一個讀完的，他抬頭看著James。然而這個戴眼鏡的年輕人並沒有看著書本。他在桌子對面盯著他們。特別是Sirius的手碰到Remus脖子的地方。James的嘴微微張開，眼中有一個疑問。

Remus moved to alert Sirius, who finally looked up at his friend. Seeing immediately what he had done, he just stared back, still for a moment. Remus half expected him to step away, withdraw his hand. But he didn’t. Instead, Sirius wrapped his arm around Remus's shoulders, and squeezed him, very deliberately, all the while holding James's gaze. Remus動了動提醒Sirius，Sirius終於抬頭看著他的朋友。馬上看到他做了什麼，他只是回望著，靜止了一會兒。Remus半期待他會退後，收回他的手。但他沒有。相反，Sirius把手臂繞過Remus的肩膀，非常刻意地擠了擠他，同時注視著James。

James closed his mouth, looked at them both again, and nodded, wordlessly. Remus straightened up, letting Sirius’s arm drop. James閉上了嘴，又看了看他們倆，無言地點了點頭。Remus直起身子，讓Sirius的手臂放下。

He had to leave them alone, that much was obvious. He cleared his throat, 他必須讓他們單獨相處，這一點顯而易見。他清了清喉嚨，

“Er. I’m sure there’s a book I’ve read which goes into more depth than this. I think I’ve got a copy upstairs, I’ll er… just go and get it… see you in an hour or so, maybe?” “呃。我確信我讀過一本書，比這本書深入得多。我想我樓上有一本副本，我呃……就去拿……可能一個小時左右見？”

Sirius and James nodded, still staring at each other. Remus left, quickly, glad the library was almost empty. He felt hot and cold all over, a feeling similar to guilt, even though he knew he ought not to feel it. Halfway to the tower, he bumped into Lily, Sirius和James點了點頭，仍然互相注視著。Remus迅速離開，慶幸圖書館幾乎是空的。他感到全身忽冷忽熱，一種類似內疚的感覺，儘管他知道他不應該這麼感覺。在去塔的半路上，他撞見了Lily，

“Hiya, Moony,” she grinned, “Seen Potter?” “嗨，Moony，”她咧嘴笑道，“見到Potter了嗎？”

“Library,” Remus said, “But I… wouldn’t, if I were you. He and Sirius are having a chat.” “圖書館，”Remus說，“但如果我是你，我不會去。他和Sirius在聊天。”

“Oh, I can interrupt a chat…” she started off. Remus touched her arm quickly, “哦，我可以打斷聊天……”她剛開始說。Remus迅速碰了碰她的手臂，

“Lily, no.” He bit his lip, “Sorry, but I really think you ought to give them a bit of time. Sirius really needs it, ok?” “Lily，不要。”他咬了咬嘴唇，“對不起，但我真的認為你應該給他們一點時間。Sirius真的需要這樣，好嗎？”

“What’s happened?!” Lily looked startled by his seriousness. “發生了什麼事？！”Lily被他的嚴肅嚇了一跳。

Remus sighed, heavily. Well, she was about to find out, anyway, and it was as much his to tell as it was Sirius’s. Remus沉重地嘆了口氣。好吧，她無論如何都會知道，而且這件事他和Sirius都有權說出來。

“Um… come with me, shall we go outside?” “嗯……跟我來，我們去外面吧？”

“Ok…” Lily followed him, looking curious and concerned at the same time, a little crease forming in her freckled brow. “好吧……”Lily跟著他，同時看起來既好奇又擔心，她那滿是雀斑的眉毛上出現了一道皺紋。

Outside in the crisp winter sunshine everything seemed a bit cheerier. Remus steeled himself, stomach roiling. He had to keep reminding himself that he’d been wanting this; to have it all out in the open. Only now, it seemed utterly terrifying. They wandered towards the lake. Remus gazed across the surface, squinting against the reflected shards of dazzling light. 在清新的冬日陽光下，一切似乎都變得愉快了一些。Remus下定決心，胃裡翻騰著。他不得不不斷提醒自己，他一直想要這樣；把一切公開。只是現在，這看起來完全是可怕的。他們漫步向湖邊走去。Remus眯著眼睛凝視著湖面，對抗著反射的耀眼光芒。

“Remus?” Lily asked, “You’re making me nervous!” “Remus？”Lily問，“你讓我緊張了！”

“Sorry!” He blinked, “Er… it’s about me and Sirius.” “對不起！”他眨了眨眼，“呃……這是關於我和Sirius的。”

“You and Sirius? Oh no, what have you done? Only you two could get in trouble during the first week back.” “你和Sirius？哦不，你們做了什麼？只有你們兩個能在回來的第一週就惹麻煩。”

“No, it’s nothing like that!” Remus laughed, despite himself. He rubbed the back of his head, casting around for the right words, “Look, you know how you’re always saying I should... find someone?” “不是，那不是這樣的！”Remus不由自主地笑了。他揉了揉後腦勺，尋找合適的詞語，“聽著，你知道你總是說我應該……找個人？”

“Yeah…” Lily frowned again, searching his face. “是啊……”Lily再次皺起眉頭，搜尋著他的臉。

Remus raised his eyebrows, waiting for her to get there. It took longer than he’d expected, but her eyes widened suddenly. “Oh my god!” Remus挑起眉毛，等著她明白過來。這比他預期的要久，但她的眼睛突然瞪大了。“哦我的天！”

She covered her mouth with her hands and sat down rather suddenly on the nearby stone bench. Remus sat beside her, slowly, his joints stiff. “Sirius?!” She said. 她用手捂住嘴，突然在旁邊的石凳上坐下。Remus慢慢地坐在她旁邊，關節僵硬。“Sirius？！”她說。

“Sirius.” He nodded. “Sirius。”他點了點頭。

“Oh my god.” “哦我的天。”

“Yeah… sorry.” “是的……對不起。”

“No, Remus, don’t be sorry, I just… wow, ok, give me a minute.” “不，Remus，不要道歉，我只是……哇，好吧，給我一分鐘。”

He did, waiting patiently, looking out at the lake. He didn’t look at her, because it didn’t matter. Lily would be ok, Lily would take it in her stride. 他做到了，耐心地等著，看著湖面。他沒有看她，因為這不重要。Lily會沒事的，Lily會坦然面對。

“And he feels the same way? You’re sure , Remus?” “他也有同樣的感覺？你確定，Remus？”

“Couldn’t be surer.” Remus smiled - it was suddenly very easy to smile. He pulled his cloak and the neck of his jumper aside covertly, to show her the reddish-purple bruise Sirius’s mouth had left there a few nights before. “不能更確定了。”Remus笑了——突然間笑得很輕鬆。他悄悄地拉開斗篷和毛衣的領口，給她看幾天前Sirius的嘴留下的紅紫色瘀痕。

“Oh my god!” She said again. He covered it up, blushing, but still smiling. “Does James know?” “哦我的天！”她又說了一遍。他把它遮住，臉紅了，但仍在微笑。“James知道嗎？”

“He’s finding out right now. That's why I wanted you to give them a bit of space.” “他現在正在發現這件事。所以我希望你給他們一點空間。”

“Yeah, no, of course.” She nodded, “I understand.” “是的，當然。”她點點頭，“我明白。”

“I’ve wanted to tell you for ages.” “我很久以前就想告訴你。”

“Ages? How long has it been…?” “很久？已經有多久了……？”

“Since the summer. Well. It got serious over the summer. But… we were um… well there was stuff going on for a while before that. Since Sirius broke up with Mary.” “從夏天開始。嗯，夏天變得嚴肅起來了。但……我們之前就有些……嗯，之前就有些事情發生了。從Sirius和Mary分手以來。”

“Bloody hell.” She shook her head again. “So, what? Sirius is your boyfriend? Are you in love with him?” “該死。”她再次搖了搖頭。“所以，什麼？Sirius是你的男朋友？你愛上他了嗎？”

“Woah,” Remus blinked, shuffling away, “I mean, steady on! Let's just um… look it's out now and that's plenty.” “哇，”Remus眨了眨眼，挪開身體，“我的意思是，冷靜點！現在這樣就夠了。”

Lily gave him a very long, appraising stare. Then she nodded. Lily長時間地打量著他。然後她點了點頭。

“All right then.” “好吧。”

Remus raised his eyebrows. Remus挑起眉毛。

“All right then?!” “好吧？！”

“You said it’s serious, though. He’s not just… um… it’s not just messing about?” “但你說這很嚴肅。他不只是……嗯……不只是玩玩而已？”

“No. Definitely not. I know it’s unexpected…” “不，絕對不是。我知道這很意外……”

Lily shook her head and looked at him with big, earnest eyes. Lily搖了搖頭，用大而認真的眼睛看著他。

“Are you happy?” “你快樂嗎？”

“Yes.” Without hesitation. “是的。”毫不猶豫。

“All right, then.” She said, briskly, back to her sensible self. She leaned over and kissed his cheek. “Look, I didn’t take divination, because it's bollocks, but I’m pretty sure we’re all in for a really crap time quite soon.” “那就好。”她爽快地說，恢復了她理智的模樣。她靠過去吻了吻他的臉頰。“看，我沒選占卜課，因為那是胡說八道，但我很確定我們很快都會迎來一段非常糟糕的時光。”

“My god, you sound more like James every day, it's ridiculous.” Remus snorted. She slapped his knee, lightly, “我的天，你每天都越來越像James，這太荒謬了。”Remus哼了一聲。她輕輕拍了拍他的膝蓋，

“Listen to me! It's going to be hard. And it's happening faster than I thought it would. It's going to be scary, all the time, for a long time. But if we can keep being happy together, and making each other happy… then good. Brilliant. If it's Sirius for you, and you for him, then brilliant.” “聽我說！這會很艱難。而且這比我想像的發生得更快。這會一直很可怕，很長一段時間。但如果我們能夠一起保持快樂，並讓對方快樂……那就好。太棒了。如果Sirius對你，你對他，那就太棒了。”

“Jesus, Evans.” Remus buried his face in her hair, pulling her into a huge hug. “天啊，Evans。”Remus把臉埋在她的頭髮裡，給了她一個大大的擁抱。

Lily and Remus waited another half an hour or so before returning to the library, where they found that the books had all been taken out, and James and Sirius were gone. Remus didn’t have the map on him, but fortunately Lily knew James, and they headed straight for the quidditch pitch. Lily和Remus又等了半個小時左右才回到圖書館，發現書都被拿走了，James和Sirius也不見了。Remus身上沒有帶地圖，但幸運的是，Lily了解James，他們直接前往魁地奇球場。

Sure enough, two familiar figures were racing through the air between the goalposts on their brooms. James was winning, but not by much - Remus could tell by Sirius’s posture that he was pushing as hard as he could - he hadn’t seen him concentrating like that on flying since being kicked off the team. 果然，兩個熟悉的身影在球門柱間的空中競速。James領先，但差距不大——Remus從Sirius的姿勢可以看出他在拼盡全力——他自從被踢出球隊後就沒見過他如此專注於飛行。

Lily and Remus sat, companionably in the lower stands, and waited, rehearsing a few basic defense spells. Lily和Remus坐在下層看台上，伴隨著彼此，等候著，練習幾個基本的防禦咒語。

“So last time I met a werewolf--” Remus was saying. “所以上次我遇到一個狼人——”Remus說。

“I still can’t believe that happened…” Lily shook her head, amazed. “我還是不敢相信那真的發生了……”Lily驚訝地搖了搖頭。

“--Ferox showed up and fired some silver chains at her, so she apparated pretty quick. I could try that, but I’m only ok at transfiguration, and what if the silver backfires and gets me?” “——Ferox出現並向她射出了一些銀鏈，所以她很快就幻影移形走了。我可以試試這個，但我的變形術只是一般，而且如果銀鏈反彈打到我怎麼辦？”

“There might be a potion that helps with your silver problem” Lily chewed her quill, “I’ll ask Slughorn. But otherwise it might not be worth the risk.” “也許有一種藥水可以幫助解決你的銀問題。”Lily咬著羽毛筆，“我會問Slughorn。但除此之外，這可能不值得冒險。”

“Fair enough…” “說得對……”

THUD, THUD. Two sets of heavy boots landed before them. James and Sirius stood panting and sweating, both clutching their brooms. Lily twirled her hair around her finger and tilted her head, and Remus fought not to do the same. “咚，咚。”兩雙沉重的靴子落在他們面前。James和Sirius站在那裡，氣喘吁吁，滿頭大汗，手裡都握著掃帚。Lily用手指捲著頭髮，歪著頭，而Remus努力不去做同樣的動作。

“All right, lads?” She broke the ice. They nodded. “你們好嗎，夥計們？”她打破僵局。他們點了點頭。

“Needed a break.” Sirius explained, apologetically. “Change of scenery.” “需要休息一下。”Sirius歉意地解釋道。“換個環境。”

Remus looked up at James, nervously. Remus緊張地看著James。

“All right, Prongs?” He asked, just managing to keep the tremor out of his voice. “還好嗎，Prongs？”他問，努力保持聲音的平穩。

James looked at Sirius, then down at Remus. He shook his head, looking down, and reached an arm out, yanking Remus to his feet, James看著Sirius，然後低頭看著Remus。他搖了搖頭，低下頭，伸出一隻手臂，把Remus拉起來，

“Come here you big prat,” he boomed, enveloping him in a bear hug. “過來你這個大笨蛋，”他大聲說，把他擁入一個熊抱中。

 

Chapter 129: Seventh Year: Instinct 

“You told him!” Remus kissed Sirius as soon as they were alone. “你告訴他了！”Remus一旦他們單獨在一起就吻了Sirius。

“Well, he worked it out…” Sirius said, laughing, as he was pushed backwards into their bedroom. Lily and James had to head a prefect’s meeting and Peter was still in detention. Remus had dragged Sirius upstairs as fast as he could, all aches and pains forgotten. “嗯，他猜到了……”Sirius笑著說，當他被推到他們的臥室裡。Lily和James必須去參加一個級長會議，而Peter還在被拘留。Remus盡可能快地把Sirius拖上樓，所有的疼痛都被忘記了。

“But you told him.” Remus insisted, running his tongue up Sirius’s neck, collarbone to earlobe. Sirius shuddered and the backs of his knees hit the bed frame. Remus gave him a shove that was half urgent, half playful, and they fell back together. “但是你告訴他了。”Remus堅持說，舌頭從Sirius的脖子滑到鎖骨，再到耳垂。Sirius顫抖著，膝蓋的後部撞到了床架。Remus給了他一個半緊急半戲謔的推，他們一起倒了下去。

“Merlin,” Sirius gasped, as Remus continued his assault, climbing on top of him, a knee ether side of Sirius’s hips, “If I’d known this was how you’d respond, I’d have told Prongs ages ag--” “梅林，”Sirius喘息著，當Remus繼續他的攻擊，爬到他身上時，一膝蓋跪在Sirius的臀部兩側，“如果我早知道你會這樣反應，我早就告訴Prongs了——”

“Shut. up.” Remus kissed him hard on the lips, hands on Sirius’s belt. Sirius obeyed. “閉嘴。”Remus狠狠地吻了他的嘴唇，手放在Sirius的腰帶上。Sirius聽話地照做了。

Remus was a bit surprised, too. Who’d have thought that confession was such a turn on? If he wasn’t careful, he’d be telling everyone he met. Remus也有些驚訝。誰能想到坦白竟然這麼刺激？如果他不小心，他可能會告訴每個遇到的人。

“So,” he said, half an hour later, sitting by the window in his boxers, lighting a cigarette. Sirius lay on the bed, still, vaguely stunned and staring at him. “It went well?” “所以，”半小時後，他坐在窗邊，穿著短褲，點燃了一支香煙。Sirius躺在床上，依然有些恍惚地看著他。“進展順利嗎？”

“Hm?!” Sirius blinked very slowly, as if his eyelids were heavy. Remus grinned, exhaling smoke, trying to aim it through the crack in the window, “嗯？！”Sirius非常慢地眨了眨眼，好像他的眼皮很重。Remus咧嘴笑了，吐出煙霧，試圖讓煙霧穿過窗縫。

“James. What did he say?!” “James。他說了什麼？！”

“I think the first thing was ‘what the fuck are you playing at’, but it got better from there.” Sirius snorted. “我想他第一句話是‘你到底在搞什麼鬼’，但從那以後情況好轉了。”Sirius哼了一聲。

“Did he ask lots of questions?” “他問了很多問題嗎？”

“Sort of. Nothing I didn’t expect, I s’pose. What about Evans?” “算是吧。沒有什麼出乎我意料的。我想。Evans呢？”

“She said ‘oh my god’ about a hundred times, but she came around fairly quickly.” “她大約說了‘我的天啊’有一百次，但她很快就接受了。”

“Prongs too. Except the prat won’t tell Wormtail for us, says we have to do it.” “Prongs也是。除了這個笨蛋不願意替我們告訴Wormtail，說我們必須自己說。”

“Well. Fair enough.” Remus sucked on his cigarette again, then blew smoke into the room, watching it fill the space between them. “What questions did he ask?” “好吧。說得對。”Remus再次吸了一口煙，然後把煙吹進房間，看著它充滿了他們之間的空間。“他問了什麼問題？”

Sirius closed his eyes, breathing in. Sirius閉上眼睛，深吸一口氣。

“Nothing scandalous. How long for, when did it start, why didn’t I tell him… that sort of thing.” “沒什麼醜聞。多長時間了，什麼時候開始的，為什麼我沒有告訴他……之類的事情。”

“What did you say?” “你怎麼說？”

“I told the truth. Roll us a fag?” “我說了實話。給我捲一支煙？”

Remus already had. He held it out. Sirius rolled onto his stomach and reached his long pale arm through the smoke to take it, placed it between his pursed lips and snapped his fingers. He sucked, then rolled back, exhaling with a sigh. Remus已經捲好了。他遞了過去。Sirius翻身趴下，伸出他那蒼白的長臂穿過煙霧接過煙，把它放在緊閉的嘴唇間，打了個響指。他吸了一口，然後翻身躺下，嘆了口氣。

“How’d you feel?” Remus asked, unable to tear his eyes away. It still seemed miraculous beyond belief. Sirius Black, naked, in my bloody bed. “你感覺如何？”Remus問，目光無法移開。這仍然讓人難以置信。Sirius Black，裸體，躺在我的床上。

“Right now? Bloomin’ marvellous.” Sirius winked, wickedly. “About Prongs? Ok. Good, I think.” He stretched, hand disappearing under one of the pillows. “What’s this?” “現在嗎？太棒了。”Sirius邪惡地眨了眨眼。“關於Prongs呢？還好。我想很好。”他伸展了一下手，手消失在其中一個枕頭下面。“這是什麼？”

“Oh!” Remus blushed, jumping up from the window, “I got some letters back. Ferox is ok. And, erm…” “哦！”Remus臉紅了，從窗邊跳了起來，“我收到了一些信。Ferox還好。而且，嗯……”

“Grant.” Sirius’s lip curled as he picked up the postcard Grant had sent from Brighton. It had a colour photo of the pier on the front, the sea looked blue and the sun was shining. Remus was so glad he had sent it. It was nice to picture Grant in a bright, cheerful place like that. Sirius continued smoking as he read it. “He’s seeing someone with a nice body but he misses you?!” “Grant。”Sirius撇了撇嘴唇，拿起Grant從Brighton寄來的明信片。明信片正面有一張碼頭的彩色照片，大海看起來很藍，陽光明媚。Remus很高興他寄了這張明信片。能想像Grant在那樣一個明亮快樂的地方真好。Sirius繼續抽著煙讀著。“他在和一個身材很好的人約會但他想念你？！”

Remus jumped onto the bed and snatched the card away, raising it aloft so Sirius couldn’t reach. Remus跳上床，把卡片搶了過來，高高舉起讓Sirius夠不到。

“He’s seeing someone with a nice body and he misses me. Separate statements.” “他在和一個身材很好的人約會，他想念我。是兩個不同的陳述。”

“Well.” Sirius folded his arms, lying back again, stiff puffing, “I hope you’re writing to him about my gorgeous body.” “哦。”Sirius雙臂交叉，再次躺下，狠狠地吸了一口煙，“我希望你寫信告訴他我的美麗身材。”

“Of course.” Remus laughed, laying back down beside him. They stared up at the red velvet bed curtains together. “You’re not really jealous, are you?” Remus asked, tentatively. “當然。”Remus笑了，躺在他旁邊。他們一起盯著紅色天鵝絨床簾。“你真的不嫉妒嗎？”Remus試探性地問。

“Pfft, no.” Sirius nudged him gently with his elbow. “Curious, maybe…”

“才不會。”天狼星用他的肘輕輕地推了他一下。“只是有點好奇……”

“About...?”

“關於什麼...？”

“What do you think? You and him! You’ve never told me any detail…”

“你覺得呢？你和他！你從來沒有告訴過我任何細節……”

“We were fifteen, there was no detail. Just snogging.” Remus tutted, “Honestly, what a thing to ask.”

“我們才十五歲，沒什麼細節。只是接吻而已。”雷木斯咂嘴，“老實說，這是什麼問題。”

“James did, about us.”

“James 問過，關於我們。”

“He never!”

“他沒有！”

“Well, he didn’t, but I knew he wanted to.”

“嗯，他沒問，但我知道他想問。”

“No he didn’t, you’re just being vain.” Remus leaned over to stub out his cigarette in the cold cup of tea on his nightstand. Sirius caught him at the hip and pulled him over. Remus closed his eyes and let himself be pulled.

“沒有，他沒有問。你只是自戀。”雷木斯靠過去，把他的香煙掐在床頭的冷茶杯裡。天狼星抓住他的臀部，把他拉過來。雷木斯閉上眼睛，讓自己被拉過去。

“Thank Godric I had the map, I would have gone to the libr--MERLIN’S BALLS!” The door flew open and Peter stood gaping in the doorway, clapping his hands to his eyes.

“謝天狼星我有地圖，我本來要去圖書館--梅林的球！”門突然打開，彼得站在門口，瞪大眼睛，用手捂住眼睛。

Remus leapt up from the bed as if Sirius was on fire, and began scrabbling about for his trousers on the floor, shouting,

雷木斯像天狼星著火一樣從床上跳起來，開始在地板上抓他的褲子，喊著，

“Sorry Pete, sorry Pete! Shit! Shit! Shit!”

“對不起，彼得，對不起，彼得！該死！該死！該死！”

“What the fuck?!” Peter shouted back, still covering his eyes.

“這他媽的是什麼？！”彼得喊回去，仍然捂著眼睛。

Sirius yanked the duvet up, staring at them both, then burst out laughing,

天狼星拉起羽絨被，盯著他們兩個，然後爆笑出聲，

“Wormy, we’ve got something to tell you.”

“虫尾巴，我們有事情要告訴你。”

Friday 20th January 1978

1978年1月20日星期五

Peter took a little while to get used to it, but then they all did, really - even Remus and Sirius. They kept forgetting that the marauders knew, and they’d grown so used to consciously avoiding each other that they were oddly shy to show any sort of affection in front of the others. Of course, Remus kept reminding himself, it was better to keep a low profile anyway; they still had the rest of the school to worry about.

彼得花了一點時間來適應，但他們都真的適應了——甚至雷木斯和天狼星。他們總是忘記了掠奪者知道了，並且他們已經習慣於有意識地避開彼此，以至於在其他人面前表現出任何形式的愛意時都感到奇怪的害羞。當然，雷木斯不斷提醒自己，保持低調總是好的；他們還有整個學校需要擔心。

“You could tell Christopher, though.” Sirius said, as they left the library for the last time before the Hogsmeade trip. It was almost midnight and they’d had to be chased out by Madam Pince, who wouldn’t let them stay any longer, even when Lily and James had flashed their Head Girl and Boy badges.

“你可以告訴克里斯多弗。”天狼星說，當他們在去活米村旅行前最後一次離開圖書館時。已經快午夜了，他們不得不被平斯夫人趕走，平斯夫人不允許他們再待下去，即使莉莉和詹姆斯亮出了他們的級長徽章。

“Oh, now you remember his name,” Remus yawned, clutching his books to his chest - really just for something to hold on to.

“哦，現在你記得他的名字了，”雷木斯打著哈欠，抱著書到胸前——真的只是為了有東西可以抱著。

“I’m just saying ,” Sirius caught the yawn and covered his mouth, but continued speaking, “He already knows half of it, no harm telling him the rest. Not really fair to let him keep pining away for you when there’s not a chance in--”

“我只是說，”天狼星接住哈欠並捂住嘴，但繼續說道，“他已經知道一半了，告訴他剩下的也沒什麼壞處。不讓他繼續為你心碎而沒有任何機會，這不公平--”

“Sirius Black, are you jealous?!” Lily cackled, giggly with overtiredness.

“天狼星布萊克，你嫉妒了？！”莉莉咯咯笑著，因為過度疲勞而發笑。

“No.” Sirius sniffed, nose in the air, “I just don’t want any misunderstandings.”

“沒有。”天狼星吸了吸鼻子，抬起頭，“我只是不想有任何誤會。”

“Well if I survive tomorrow then I’ll think about it.” Remus yawned again.

“如果我明天能活下來，我會考慮的。”雷木斯再次打著哈欠。

That made everyone go quiet and he regretted saying it. They walked back to the common room in solemn silence. Gryffindor tower was peaceful and mostly empty - a few stray second years up past their curfew fled to their dorms as soon as they saw James and Lily, and the marauders took their usual seats by the fireplace. Remus settled into his armchair and immediately returned to the book he had been reading before Pince had so rudely interrupted.

這讓大家都安靜下來，他後悔說了這句話。他們在莊嚴的沉默中走回公共休息室。格蘭芬多塔平靜且大多是空的——幾個違反宵禁的二年級學生一看到詹姆斯和莉莉就逃回了宿舍，掠奪者們在壁爐旁找到了他們的常坐之處。雷木斯坐進了他的扶手椅，立刻回到了他之前被平斯夫人粗魯打斷的書中。

Sirius flicked his wand at the kettle hanging over the fireplace and Lily summoned some clean tea cups from the cupboard, but still no one spoke until the water was boiled and the tea brewing in its pot.

天狼星揮動他的魔杖對著掛在壁爐上的水壺，莉莉從櫥櫃裡召喚出一些乾淨的茶杯，但直到水煮沸並且茶在壺裡沖泡好後，仍然沒有人說話。

“Moony,” Sirius said, softly, “Put down the book, eh? We’ve done so much already.”

“月亮臉，”天狼星輕聲說，“放下書，好嗎？我們已經做了很多了。”

“Doesn’t feel like enough.” Remus replied, feeling prickly and irritable. “I know I’m missing something.”

“感覺還不夠。”雷木斯回答，感到刺痛和煩躁。“我知道我漏掉了什麼。”

Everyone kept staring at him, and by now he didn’t know whether it was because they were amazed (or repulsed) about the whole Sirius thing, or whether they were convinced he was about to run away and join the werewolves.

大家一直盯著他，到現在他不知道是因為他們對整個天狼星的事情感到驚訝（或者厭惡），還是因為他們相信他即將逃跑並加入狼人。

“It’s loads.” James said, now pouring the tea and handing Remus a saucer, “Honestly, you know enough now to walk any Defence Against the Dark Arts exam. Might as well bunk off the rest of the year.”

“已經很多了。”詹姆斯說，現在倒茶並遞給雷木斯一個茶碟，“說真的，你現在知道的已經足夠通過任何黑魔法防禦術考試了。不如把剩下的學年翹掉。”

“This isn't an exam.” Remus snapped. The cup and saucer shook in his hands, so he set it down on the arm of the chair. He had a feeling Sirius had noticed that, but hopefully no one else.

“這不是考試。”雷木斯厲聲說。杯子和茶碟在他手中顫抖，所以他把它放在椅子的扶手上。他感覺天狼星注意到了這點，但希望其他人沒有。

“But Moony,” Peter slurped his own tea noisily, “You’ve done this before. Last year.”

“但是月亮臉，”彼得大聲地喝著自己的茶，“你以前做過這個。去年。”

“Exactly,” James nodded, encouragingly.

“沒錯，”詹姆斯點頭，鼓勵道。

Remus sighed, and said no more. What was the point; whinging wasn’t going to get him anywhere. He sipped his tea, willing his hand to stay steady. This was potentially the worst time of the month for a mission, he couldn’t help thinking. Only four nights away from the full moon and his magic felt stronger than usual, but also less predictable. He was restless, his skin crawling, his senses bare and his mood hot. He knew he was forgetting something. He just knew . A dark feeling of foreboding that told him all the curses in the world would be no good.

雷木斯嘆了口氣，沒再說什麼。有什麼意義呢？抱怨不會讓他有任何進展。他啜飲著茶，強迫自己的手保持穩定。他忍不住想，這可能是這個月執行任務最糟糕的時候。離滿月只有四個晚上，他的魔力感覺比平時更強，但也更難預測。他焦躁不安，皮膚爬行，感官裸露，情緒激動。他知道他忘了什麼。他就是知道。一種陰暗的預感告訴他，世界上所有的詛咒都無濟於事。

He stood up, sharply, knocking the teacup off the armchair. Sirius was quick, and stopped it mid-air with a flick of his wand. Remus ignored this.

他猛然站起來，把茶杯從扶手椅上撞掉。天狼星動作迅速，用魔杖一揮在空中停住了茶杯。雷木斯無視了這一點。

“Going to bed.” He said, cracking his knuckles.

“去睡覺了。”他說，指節作響。

“Ok, Moony,” James nodded, brightly. He glanced at Lily, “Think we’ll stay down here for a bit.”

“好吧，月亮臉，”詹姆斯明亮地點點頭。他看了一眼莉莉，“我們會在這裡待一會兒。”

Peter looked at Sirius, and then Remus with an expression of faint terror. Remus tutted.

彼得看著天狼星，然後看著雷木斯，臉上帶著淡淡的恐懼。雷木斯咂嘴。

“It’s ok, Wormtail, I really am just going to sleep. See you all tomorrow.”

“沒事，虫尾巴，我真的只是去睡覺。明天見。”

He didn’t sleep. His brain wouldn’t let him. He hated Dumbledore, and he hated Greyback, he hated the war, and as the hours got smaller and smaller, he hated Peter too.

他沒有睡。他的大腦不讓他睡。他恨鄧布利多，他恨格雷伯克，他恨戰爭，隨著時間越來越少，他也恨彼得。

He did not hate the other werewolf, though; the one who was not Greyback. Just as he had not hated Livia, though she frightened him. The more Remus thought about what was ahead of him, the less sure he was about his preparedness.

但他不恨另一個狼人；那個不是格雷伯克的。就像他沒有恨過莉維亞一樣，雖然她讓他害怕。雷木斯越想越不確定自己是否準備好了。

Yes, he knew more curses and hexes now than Regulus and Severus combined (probably), but the more he thought back to his encounter with Livia, the less useful these things seemed. Hadn’t she said it herself? “You can wear that uniform and wave your silly stick, but you know that you have more in common with me than anyone in that castle.” He knew she was stronger than him; she could hurt him if she wanted to - but she hadn’t, not really. Instead, he remembered the pity he had felt, immediately after their meeting. He remembered the desire to help her, and his conversations with both Ferox and Dumbledore.

是的，他現在知道的詛咒和咒語比雷古勒斯和賽弗勒斯加起來還多（可能），但他越想起與莉維亞的相遇，這些東西似乎越沒用。她不是自己說過嗎？“你可以穿那套制服，揮動你那愚蠢的魔杖，但你知道你和我比這城堡裡的任何人都有更多的共同點。”他知道她比他強；如果她想傷害他，她可以——但她沒有，並不是那樣。相反，他記得他們見面後立即感到的憐憫。他記得想要幫助她的渴望，還有他與費羅克斯和鄧布利多的對話。

As dawn broke, Remus lay wide awake, thinking at a million miles an hour, his heart hammering and his stomach fizzing with excited anticipation. If he had to go to war, then fine. But this was his battle, and it would be on his terms.

黎明破曉時，雷木斯清醒地躺著，每小時思緒飛速，心跳如雷，胃部因興奮的期待而發麻。如果他不得不參戰，那也好。但這是他的戰鬥，他將按照自己的方式進行。

* * *

It was an April morning when they told us we should go

As I turned to you, you smiled at me

How could we say no?

 

Oh, the fun to have

To live the dreams we always had

Oh, the songs to sing

When we at last return again

Slipping off a glancing kiss

To those who claim they know

Below the streets that steam and hiss

The devil's in his hole

 

--

Saturday 21st January 1978

1978年1月21日，星期六

Breakfast that morning was a bleak affair. Remus was ravenously hungry, but no one else seemed to be eating. Sirius was on black coffee, and it was already making him jittery; he kept bobbing up and down in his seat. Mary and Marlene were the only ones acting halfway normal, because neither of them knew about the assignment.

那天早上的早餐氣氛非常沉悶。Remus非常餓，但其他人似乎都沒有胃口。Sirius只喝黑咖啡，這已經讓他變得緊張不安；他不停地在座位上上下晃動。Mary和Marlene是唯一表現正常的人，因為她們都不知道這次任務。

“Three Broomsticks, later?” Mary asked, brightly.

“一會兒去三把掃帚？”Mary明亮地問道。

Lily and James nodded, trying to smile, and succeeding only in looking slightly deranged. They were holding hands under the table again, and Remus was trying not to think about it, instead reaching for the plate of bacon for another helping.

Lily和James點點頭，努力微笑，但結果只讓他們看起來有點瘋狂。他們又在桌子下牽著手，Remus努力不去想這件事，轉而伸手拿盤子裡的培根再來一份。

“Can I bring Yaz?” Marlene was asking Mary. Mary raised an eyebrow,

“我可以帶Yaz來嗎？”Marlene問Mary。Mary揚起一眉。

“I mean, I suppose …”

“嗯，我想可以……”

“Great.” Marlene grinned. Mary’s mouth twisted, but she didn’t say anything.

“太好了。”Marlene咧嘴笑了。Mary嘴角扭曲，但她什麼也沒說。

The walk into Hogsmeade seemed longer than ever. Fortunately Lily and James had duties to perform, so at least they weren’t following Remus about, just waiting. Unfortunately, Sirius had enough nervous energy for three people, and Remus could feel it coming off him in waves.

走到霍格莫德的路似乎比以往任何時候都長。幸運的是，Lily和James有任務要執行，所以至少他們沒有跟著Remus，只是等著。不幸的是，Sirius有足夠的緊張能量可以供三個人使用，Remus能感受到這股能量一波波從他身上散發出來。

“Where shall we go?” He murmured, low enough so only Peter and Remus could hear.

“我們去哪裡？”他低聲咕噥，聲音低到只有Peter和Remus能聽到。

“Everywhere, I s’pose.”

“哪裡都去，我想。”

“Would it help if I was Padfoot?”

“如果我變成Padfoot會有幫助嗎？”

“If you like.”

“如果你願意。”

“Shall I change too?” Peter asked.

“我也要變嗎？”Peter問道。

“If you like.”

“如果你願意。”

Remus was unable to summon up very much interest. He was too busy trying to work out whether or not Hogsmeade smelled genuinely different, or whether it was because he usually tried to ignore scents as a human.

Remus提不起太多興趣。他正忙著想弄清楚霍格莫德是否真的有不同的氣味，還是因為他通常作為人類時會忽略氣味。

They ducked into a shop alleyway and Peter and Sirius transformed behind some bins. Wormtail crawled onto Remus’s palm, and he sat him on his shoulder. The weight was a small comfort, even if his whiskers tickled Remus’s neck. Nice to have Padfoot too, big and black and excitable, trotting alongside like a loyal companion. Yes. Much better when your friends aren’t human, in Remus’s opinion. At least, right now.

他們躲進一條商店的小巷裡，Peter和Sirius在一些垃圾箱後面變形。Wormtail爬上Remus的手掌，然後他把Wormtail放在肩上。這重量帶來了一點安慰，即使他的鬍鬚讓Remus的脖子發癢。Padfoot也很好，大而黑，興奮不已，像忠實的同伴一樣在旁邊小跑。是的，當你的朋友不是人類時會好很多，至少現在是這樣。

They walked. Remus deliberately avoided the high street, instead wandering around the backs of the houses. How many people lived in Hogsmeade? How many were potentially in danger, without even knowing it? He tried sniffing the air, and it was like exercising a muscle he had allowed to atrophy.

他們走著。Remus故意避開大街，而是在房屋後面漫步。霍格莫德有多少人居住？有多少人可能處於危險之中，卻渾然不知？他試著嗅嗅空氣，就像鍛煉一塊他已經讓其萎縮的肌肉。

Some scents came through stronger than others. Padfoot, obviously, and Wormtail. Household waste from the bins, compost from back gardens, and magic - that heavy, iron taste which settled on his tongue like treacle when he was this close to the moon. Other students, the sickly sweet aroma of Honeyduke’s and the comforting smell of parchment emanating from Scrivenshaft's.

有些氣味比其他氣味更強烈。顯然是Padfoot和Wormtail。垃圾箱裡的家庭廢物，後院的堆肥，還有魔法——那種沉重的鐵味，當他離滿月這麼近時，這種味道就像糖漿一樣落在他的舌頭上。還有其他學生，蜂蜜公爵的甜膩香氣，以及來自Scrivenshaft's的羊皮紙散發出的安慰氣味。

The forest. He could smell the forest, if he really tried. He closed his eyes briefly and inhaled. Green, lush, dense, teeming with life… and magic. At first it seemed like an indulgent whim, just an idea that he rather liked the smell, and wanted to get closer. But the further they walked, and the closer they got, the more important it felt. Remus had the impression that something had been drawing him in this direction for some time now.

森林。他可以聞到森林的味道，如果他真的試一試的話。他短暫地閉上眼睛，吸了一口氣。綠色，茂盛，濃密，充滿生命……還有魔法。起初這似乎是一個放縱的念頭，只是一個他相當喜歡這種氣味，並想靠近一點的想法。但他們走得越遠，越接近，這種感覺就越重要。Remus有一種印象，這段時間以來有什麼東西一直在吸引他向這個方向前進。

The Forbidden Forest loomed large over the little village, miles and miles of darkness and danger, against a backdrop of blue-grey snow-capped mountains. For the first time (as a human, anyway) Remus had the urge to go in - to explore.

禁林在這個小村莊上空隱約可見，無邊無際的黑暗和危險，以藍灰色積雪覆蓋的山脈為背景。這是第一次（至少作為人類）Remus有了進去探索的衝動。

Padfoot whined beside him as they left Hogsmeade and the road behind them. He wondered if Sirius could smell it too, but it was impossible to get any kind of sense out of him in dog-form. Remus tried to switch off his rational mind for a moment - was there anything there at all, or was he just overthinking?

當他們離開霍格莫德和身後的道路時，Padfoot在他旁邊呻吟。他想知道Sirius是否也能聞到這氣味，但在狗形態下是不可能得到任何感覺的。Remus試圖關掉理智的大腦片刻——那裡到底有什麼，還是他只是想得太多了？

The magic in the forest wasn’t the same as at Hogwarts; it wasn’t human, it didn’t have that metallic, gunpowder smell Remus had come to associate with most witches and wizards he knew. It was more organic; less precise; a heady, mulchy smell of soil and decay. There was power, in there. He knew this instinctively - dizzying, huge, earth-moving power. It would have been frightening, once. But the closer Remus grew, the surer he was - the power was his, if he wanted it. All he needed to do was let it in. Another scent revealed itself; an animal; blood. Remus felt the wolf inside stir, and his desire to enter the forest grew almost impossible to resist.

森林中的魔法與霍格沃茲的不一樣；它不是人類的，它沒有那種金屬的火藥味，Remus已經把這種味道與他所認識的大多數巫師和巫師聯繫在一起。它更有機；不那麼精確；一種泥土和腐爛的濃烈氣味。那裡有力量。他本能地知道——令人頭暈目眩的，巨大的，地動山搖的力量。曾經這是可怕的。但Remus越接近，他就越確信——這力量是他的，如果他想要的話。他所需要做的就是讓它進來。另一種氣味顯現出來；一種動物的；血。Remus感覺到內心的狼在蠢蠢欲動，他進入森林的渴望變得幾乎無法抗拒。

Padfoot barked, sharply, and ran in front of him. The great black dog turned on Remus, raising its hackles and emitting a low growl. Remus blinked, snapping back into himself. Wormtail was speaking and quivering on his shoulder - maybe had been for a few minutes, now.

Padfoot尖聲吠叫，跑到他前面。大黑狗轉向Remus，豎起鬃毛，發出低沉的咆哮聲。Remus眨了眨眼，恢復了正常。Wormtail在他肩上說話並顫抖著——可能已經有幾分鐘了。

“Sirius.” Remus frowned. “Move.”

“Sirius。”Remus皺眉。“讓開。”

Padfoot continued to growl. Wormtail gave another squeak, before scuttling down Remus’s robes into his left pocket. Remus felt hot and angry - as if something had been snatched from him that he wanted. That he needed. He made to move forward, and Sirius transformed back into himself.

Padfoot繼續咆哮。Wormtail又發出一聲尖叫，然後爬下Remus的長袍進入他的左口袋。Remus感到熱和憤怒——就像有人從他手中奪走了他想要的東西。他需要的東西。他向前走，Sirius變回了自己。

“Where are you going?!” He said, still blocking Remus’s way. “Can’t you smell it?!”

“你要去哪裡？！”他說，仍然擋在Remus的路上。“你聞不到嗎？！”

Remus stopped trying to get past and caught Sirius’s eye,

Remus停止了嘗試超越，抓住了Sirius的目光，

“Can you?” He whispered, not quite believing it.

“你能嗎？”他低聲問道，有點不敢相信。

“There’s something bad in there. It must be the wolf.”

“裡面有不好的東西。一定是狼。”

“It is.” Remus nodded, eagerly. Surely that was obvious?!

“是的。”Remus急切地點點頭。當然這是顯而易見的？！

“I can’t be sure, though.” Sirius frowned.

“但我不能確定。”Sirius皺眉。

“I can.” Remus replied. “Let me past.”

“我能。”Remus回應。“讓我過去。”

Sirius moved again, blocking him.

Sirius再次移動，擋住他。

“No.” He said. “You’ve done what you said you’d do. We know it’s there. Let’s go back, now.”

“不。”他說。“你已經做了你說要做的事。我們知道它在那裡。現在我們回去吧。”

“I…” Remus stared over Sirius’s shoulder, into the dark, wintry wilds beyond. He wanted this so badly. More than he’d ever wanted anything; except - maybe - the boy standing before him. “I have to.” He finished. It was an insufficient explanation, but it was all he had.

“我……”Remus盯著Sirius的肩膀，望向外面的黑暗冬季荒野。他非常渴望這一切。比他曾經想要的任何東西都要多；除了——也許——站在他面前的男孩。“我必須。”他補充道。這是一個不足的解釋，但這是他唯一的解釋。

“There you lot are! Where’s Pete?”

“你們都在這裡！Pete在哪裡？”

Sirius and Remus’s deadlock was interrupted by James’s cheerful shout. They both turned to see him striding towards them from the village, Lily at his side. “What are you doing all the way out here? Thought you were supposed to be trailing your scent all over town or something.”

Sirius和Remus的僵局被James的愉快叫聲打斷。他們都轉過身來，看見他從村莊向他們大步走來，Lily在他身邊。“你們在這裡幹什麼？我以為你們應該在整個鎮上拖著你們的氣味或什麼的。”

“Yeah, we’re just coming back now.” Sirius said - which Remus thought was pretty cheeky, not to mention presumptuous.

“是的，我們現在正要回來。”Sirius說——Remus認為這相當厚顏無恥，更不用說自以為是了。

“You lot can.” Remus said. “I’m not.”

“你們可以。”Remus說。“我不回去。”

“Not what?” Lily asked, confused. “Where is Peter?”

“不什麼？”Lily困惑地問道。“Peter在哪裡？”

Remus could feel the warm weight of Wormtail’s furry little body in his pocket, but said nothing. James had been agonising for months over when to break the animagus thing to his girlfriend, and now was definitely not the right time.

Remus能感受到口袋裡Wormtail毛茸茸的小身體的溫暖重量，但什麼也沒說。James幾個月來一直在為何時向他女朋友透露變形師的事而痛苦，而現在絕對不是合適的時候。

“I’m not coming back with you. I have to go in there.” He pointed at the forest, aware of how mad he sounded.

“我不會和你們一起回去的。我必須進去。”他指著森林，意識到自己聽起來有多瘋狂。

“You what?!” James looked concerned. His eyes flicked to Sirius automatically, which only annoyed Remus even more. Sirius wasn’t his keeper, for god’s sake.

“你什麼？！”James看起來很擔心。他的目光自動轉向Sirius，這只讓Remus更加惱火。Sirius不是他的看守人，天哪。

“The wolf’s in there.” Sirius explained, “And Moony’s gone completely mental and decided he has to go in and face it right now.”

“狼在裡面。”Sirius解釋道，“而Moony完全瘋了，決定他必須現在就進去面對它。”

Remus’s head snapped back to Sirius, outraged and betrayed.

Remus的頭猛然轉向Sirius，憤怒而被背叛。

“I have not gone mental, you prick!” He said, fiercely. How could he explain that this was just what had to happen? That he knew it, deep in his marrow; at his very core. “You lot go back, or wait here. You won’t understand.”

“我沒有瘋，你這個混蛋！”他激烈地說。他怎麼能解釋這就是必須發生的事？他深知這一點；在他的骨髓深處；在他的核心。“你們回去，或者在這裡等。你們不會明白的。”

“Help us understand, Remus,” Lily came forward, gently, “This isn’t like you, barrelling into a fight…”

“幫助我們理解，Remus，”Lily溫柔地走上前，“這不像你，衝進戰鬥……”

Remus nearly laughed in her face. Did no one remember who he was? What he was?

Remus差點對著她笑出聲來。沒有人記得他是誰嗎？他是什麼？

“I’m not going to fight anyone.” He said. “I just want to talk to them. That’s what I’m supposed to do.”

“我不會和任何人打架。”他說。“我只是想和他們談談。這是我應該做的。”

They were all staring at him, unconvinced. His anger flared again, and he had a very unpleasant thought - that he could very easily get past them, if he wanted to. The magic in the forest was more than enough; it made him feel strong. He could force his friends to stay in place, and it wouldn’t even tire him out, he probably wouldn’t even need his wand. This notion burned so brightly it frightened him.

他們都盯著他，不相信。他的怒火再次燃起，他有一個非常不愉快的想法——如果他願意，他可以很容易地超越他們。森林中的魔法已經足夠多；它讓他感覺很強壯。他可以強迫他的朋友們留在原地，這甚至不會讓他感到疲倦，他可能甚至不需要他的魔杖。這個想法燃燒得如此明亮，讓他感到害怕。

He looked at Lily again, refusing to look at Sirius or James. “We were wrong - this isn’t a battle. And I’m not a weapon against the werewolves,” he tried to explain, “I’m a… I dunno, a way in. They need to know I don’t mean any harm.”

他再次看向Lily，拒絕看Sirius或James。“我們錯了——這不是一場戰鬥。我不是對抗狼人的武器，”他試圖解釋，“我是……我不知道，一個進入的方式。他們需要知道我沒有惡意。”

“But Remus, if they’re on you-know-who’s side…”

“但Remus，如果他們站在你知道的那一邊……”

“They’re not!” He snapped. “Not all of them.”

“他們不是！”他厲聲說。“不是所有人。”

Lily looked uncertain, and Sirius was practically burning a hole in the back of Remus’s head with his indignance. Remus ran his hands through his hair. They weren’t going to understand. How could they? He barely did. “Look.” He said. “This is important, and I need you all to trust me.”

Lily看起來不確定，而Sirius幾乎用他的憤怒在Remus的後腦勺上燒出了一個洞。Remus用手撥弄著頭髮。他們不會理解的。他們怎麼可能理解？他自己也幾乎不理解。“聽著。”他說。“這很重要，我需要你們都信任我。”

It wasn’t a request, and nor was it received as one. James and Lily looked at each other, then at Sirius. James nodded.

這不是請求，也不是作為請求被接受。James和Lily互相看了一眼，然後看向Sirius。James點了點頭。

“Ok, Moony.”

“好吧，Moony。”

Sirius made a noise of protest, but Remus was too far gone now to care. He would make it up to him later, when he could think clearly; when every instinct in him wasn’t telling him to run into the forest at full pelt.

Sirius發出抗議的聲音，但Remus現在已經太過專注於其他事而不再在意。他會在以後補償他，當他能清晰思考的時候；當他內心的每一個本能都不再告訴他要全速奔向森林的時候。

“Ok.” He nodded back. “Stay here.” A tug in his midriff as the magic took over - he would never be sure whether or not he had done it on purpose, and at the time he simply did not care.

“好吧。”他點點頭。“待在這裡。”魔法接管時，他的腹部有一種牽引感——他永遠無法確定自己是否故意這樣做了，而當時他根本不在乎。

He turned and began to walk into the forest, quickly, his long legs making long strides, his friends behind him, unmoving, unable to follow.

他轉身迅速走進森林，他的長腿邁出大步，他的朋友們在他身後，動彈不得，無法跟隨。

 

Chapter 130: Seventh Year: Castor 

It was easiest not to think, for the next few minutes at least. Remus did not slow down, or tire as quickly as usual - even his hip had stopped hurting. Despite the wheedling guilt he had to keep at bay, he had not felt so good in months. The scent grew stronger as the woods grew thicker, and a shade of darkness fell, casting strange shadows which seemed to move in the corners of Remus’s eyes. 至少在接下來的幾分鐘內，不去思考是最容易的。Remus 沒有放慢腳步，或像往常那樣迅速感到疲倦——甚至他的臀部也不再疼痛。儘管他必須克制住內心的懊悔，但他幾個月來都沒有感覺如此良好。隨著森林變得越來越密，氣味越來越強烈，一片黑暗降臨，投下奇怪的陰影，似乎在 Remus 的眼角移動。

He didn’t think. It was too late to think; he was too far gone. 他沒有思考。現在思考已經太晚了；他已經走得太遠了。

Bloody hell a voice in his head popped out of nowhere, when you go for it you really go for it, don’t ya sweetheart? 該死的，一個聲音突然在他腦海中冒出來，當你決定做某件事的時候，你真的全力以赴，不是嗎，親愛的？

Grant. Remus didn’t want to do this, now. Shut up, he willed his brain. Grant。Remus 現在不想這樣做。閉嘴，他對自己的大腦說。

Oh, charming! Grant’s voice cackled, here I am, only tryna help. Don’t I always try to help? 哦，真迷人！Grant 的聲音咯咯笑道，我在這裡，只是想幫忙。我不是總是試圖幫忙嗎？

I don’t need help. 我不需要幫助。

If you didn’t, I wouldn’t be here. Grant’s voice countered. I could be someone else, if you prefer? Lots of sensible people to choose from. I’ve got Ferox here, wanna chat wif him? Or Lily, though she’s a bit whingy, if you ask me… Dumbledore? Nah, bit of a prick. Ooh, how about your poshboy? Eh, ‘Moony’? 如果你不需要，我就不會在這裡。Grant 的聲音反駁道。如果你願意，我可以變成別人嗎？有很多明智的人可以選。我這裡有 Ferox，想跟他聊聊嗎？或者 Lily，雖然如果你問我，她有點愛抱怨……Dumbledore？不，有點討厭。哦，那你的貴族男孩怎麼樣？嗯，‘Moony’？

Shut up. Remus repeated, walking faster, breathing harder. 閉嘴。Remus 重複道，走得更快，呼吸更加急促。

Yeah, Grant’s voice agreed, slyly, I can see why you wouldn’t wanna talk to ‘im, after what you just done. 是的，Grant 的聲音狡猾地同意道，我能理解為什麼你不想跟他說話，在你剛剛做的事之後。

I had to. Remus insisted. None of you would understand. 我必須這樣做。Remus 堅持道。你們誰都不會理解。

Well they won’t now, you lunatic. 那他們現在也不會理解，你這個瘋子。

Remus ignored the voice. There was no time for this; he would just have to deal with the consequences later. He knew there was no coming back from it now, not really. Remus 無視了這個聲音。現在沒有時間想這些；他只得以後再處理後果。他知道現在已經無法回頭，真的無法回頭。

Hope you like the woods, Remus, Grant was whispering, now, ‘Cos no one’s going to want you back in civilisation after that mess. 希望你喜歡森林，Remus，Grant 現在低聲說，因為在這場混亂之後，沒有人會想要你回到文明社會。

Shut up, shut up, shut UP. Remus raged inside his head, like a mad person; like someone deranged. Perhaps it had been a mistake, to go alone. Perhaps he really had lost it, and his friends were only trying to keep him safe… 閉嘴，閉嘴，閉嘴。Remus 在腦海中怒吼，像個瘋子；像個精神錯亂的人。也許獨自去是個錯誤。也許他真的失去了理智，而他的朋友們只是試圖保護他……

No. He caught the scent again, and it stirred up his insides so much that he felt as though he was being propelled by it; dragged forward, unable to resist. It was a feeling he had only ever associated with transformation before, and he had no more control over it in his human form than the wolf did. It was him - the other wolf, somewhere out there. Remus had to find him, or else… well, he wasn’t sure, but it wasn’t even worth considering. 不。他再次捕捉到了那種氣味，這讓他的內心翻騰，感覺自己被它推動著；被拖向前，無法抗拒。這種感覺他以前只在變形時才有，而在他的人形狀態下，他對它的控制力不比狼多。就是他——另一隻狼，某個地方的另一隻狼。Remus 必須找到他，否則……嗯，他不確定，但這甚至不值得考慮。

Something moved, just ahead, and Remus froze. The different scents of the forest began to pile up, he had to concentrate to identify and categorise each one. There was magic. And there was a different kind… it wasn’t the wolf; it was female - or feminine, at least, and not lupine at all. 前方有東西移動，Remus 凝固了。森林裡的不同氣味開始堆積，他必須集中注意力來識別和分類每一種氣味。有魔法。而且還有一種不同的……不是狼；是女性的——或者至少是女性的，而且根本不是狼的氣味。

He walked towards it, confused. It was very close, but he couldn’t see anything. He found himself in a grove of silver birches - spindly, ghostly white trees with papery bark that glowed in the darkness of the woods. The scent was strong, but still nothing - and he had lost the wolf’s trail. 他困惑地朝它走去。它非常近，但他看不見任何東西。他發現自己處於一片白樺樹林中——細長的、幽靈般的白樺樹，它們的樹皮在森林的黑暗中閃耀著光芒。氣味很強烈，但還是什麼都沒有——而且他已經失去了狼的蹤跡。

Impatient, Remus pulled out his wand, and cast a revealing spell. 不耐煩的 Remus 拔出他的魔杖，施了一個揭示咒。

“ Aparecium. ” His wand seemed to jump in his hand, the force of the magic was so strong. “顯形。”他的魔杖似乎在他手中跳動，魔法的力量非常強大。

An anguished wail filled the air, and the tree closest to Remus was no longer a tree, but a young woman. A dryad. She was beautiful - in her own way. Slender and tall as the trees she guarded, her skin glowed as white as silver bark, and her hair rustled with brittle wintry leaves. She rounded on him, baring sharp, yellow teeth, and he staggered back, shocked and amazed. 一聲痛苦的哀嚎充滿了空氣，離 Remus 最近的樹不再是一棵樹，而是一個年輕的女人。樹妖。她以自己的方式美麗。她像她守護的樹一樣瘦高，皮膚像銀白色的樹皮一樣發光，頭髮在寒冷的冬葉中沙沙作響。她轉向他，露出鋒利的黃牙，他驚訝得後退了一步。

“Go away, nasty thing.” She hissed, eyes narrowing. They were the colour of new spring leaves, unnaturally bright and fierce. “I dealt with the other, I’ll deal with you too.” “走開，討厭的東西。”她嘶嘶地說，眼睛瞇起來。它們是新春葉子的顏色，異常明亮而激烈。“我解決了另一個，也會解決你。”

“Which other?!”

"The other half-beast.” She glowered. The dryad was at least a head taller than him, and advanced at a steady pace, roots unfurling from the soles of her feet and winding towards him. As dreadful and fearsome as she was, Remus had to stay focused on his goal. “另一個半獸。”她怒目而視。樹妖至少比他高一個頭，並以穩定的步伐前進，根從她的腳底展開並向他纏繞過來。儘管她令人畏懼，Remus 必須專注於他的目標。

“I’m looking for him - the other. I mean you no harm, or your… er… trees.” “我在找他——另一個。我對你沒有惡意，也對你的……呃……樹木沒有惡意。”

“Wizards do not belong here.” She continued to scowl, “Even half-beast wizards. Get out.” “巫師不屬於這裡。”她繼續皺眉，“即使是半獸巫師。滾出去。”

“I will, as soon as I’ve---” “我會的，只要我——”

“Nasty, cruel, wicked creatures, foul, unnatural, don’t belong, too dangerous...” “討厭，殘忍，邪惡的生物，骯髒，不自然，不屬於這裡，太危險了……”

“It’s not a full moon,” he insisted, “I’m not going to transform, I swear!” “現在不是滿月，”他堅持道，“我不會變身，我發誓！”

“Not wolf.” She rasped, very close to him now, ivy and nettles winding their way towards him, covering his shoes. “Wizard. Wolf is welcome. Wolf is natural.” “不是狼。”她沙啞地說，現在離他很近，常春藤和蕁麻向他纏繞過來，覆蓋了他的鞋子。“巫師。狼是受歡迎的。狼是自然的。”

“Oh…” Remus didn’t have a response to that, and the vines were tickling his ankles now, stinging him as they tightened. He still had his wand. He still had every curse he’d spent the last two weeks practicing. But now that the time had come to use them, Remus’s conscience pricked. “哦……”Remus 對此無言以對，藤蔓現在正在撓他的腳踝，緊繃時刺痛了他。他還有他的魔杖。他還記得他過去兩週練習的每個咒語。但現在是使用它們的時候了，Remus 的良心受到刺痛。

The dryad was only doing what she was supposed to do; guarding her trees. 樹妖只是在做她應該做的事；守護她的樹木。

“Please!” Remus said, holding his hands up, hoping he looked deferential, “I promise I won’t hurt you, or anyone - I just need to find the other… the other wolf. Then I’ll go, I really will!” “拜託！”Remus 說，舉起雙手，希望他看起來很恭敬，“我保證我不會傷害你或任何人——我只是需要找到另一個……另一個狼。然後我就走，我真的會走！”

“Lying, false-tongued, dirty…” “撒謊，舌頭虛假，骯髒……”

“I swear!” “我發誓！”

“And the little one?” “還有那個小的？”

“What!? Who?!” “什麼！？誰？！”

Close up, he could see that her face was not smooth, like human skin, but finely lined and cracking, like bark; coal black beneath the tissue thin outer layer. She gave another harsh wail, and raised her hand. Remus flinched, but she didn’t touch him - instead, there was a violent shaking inside of his robe pocket, and Wormtail came flying out, falling to the mulchy ground below with a soft ‘pat’. Shit. Remus thought. Bloody Peter! 近看，他發現她的臉不像人類的皮膚那樣光滑，而是像樹皮一樣布滿細紋和裂縫；在薄如紙的外層下是煤黑色的。她又發出一聲尖銳的哀嚎，舉起了手。Remus 畏縮了一下，但她沒有碰他——取而代之的是，他的袍子口袋裡劇烈震動，Wormtail 飛了出來，軟綿綿地落在下面的腐葉地上。該死。Remus 想。該死的 Peter！

The dryad raised her arm again, and Peter transformed into his human shape, trembling and cowering on the ground. 樹妖再次舉起手臂，Peter 變成了人形，顫抖著蜷縮在地上。

“Please, please don’t hurt me!” He whimpered, covering his face. Remus stepped in front of him, quickly. Of all the people to have at your side in a situation like this. “拜託，請不要傷害我！”他嗚咽著，捂住臉。Remus 快速地站在他面前。在這樣的情況下，旁邊有這樣一個人。

“Liar!” The dryad hissed again triumphantly, leafy hair bristling, “Deceitful, filthy wizards…” “騙子！”樹妖再次勝利地嘶嘶作響，葉子般的頭髮豎起，“欺騙的，骯髒的巫師……”

She was raising both arms now, and her eyes had darkened to the color of pine needles. Remus was now completely sure that she meant them serious harm; every one of her pointed little teeth was showing. He couldn’t disarm her, she didn’t have a wand. He wasn’t even sure if the usual defensive spells would work on her. Remus had just decided to use a knockback jinx to buy himself some time, when -- 她現在舉起了雙臂，她的眼睛變得像松針一樣暗。Remus 現在完全確信她是認真要傷害他們；她的每一顆尖尖的小牙齒都露了出來。他不能解除她的武裝，她沒有魔杖。他甚至不確定通常的防禦咒語是否對她有效。Remus 剛剛決定使用擊退咒來爭取一些時間，這時——

“C-c-confringo!” Peter squeaked from behind him, pointing his stubby little wand over Remus’s shoulder. “粉碎咒！”Peter 從他身後尖聲說，將他那短小的魔杖指向 Remus 的肩膀。

Oh jesus christ… Remus thought, as he ducked, reflexively. Fortunately, Peter was either so frightened, or just inept, that the blasting curse didn’t have its usual devastating effect. Still, it was enough to cause some serious damage to the trees behind the dryad, setting a few leaves on fire. She screamed, a heart-wrenching, painful screech, and turned immediately to tend to the smoking branches. Peter and Remus took their chance and ran, vines snapping as they tore their feet from the ground. 哦天哪……Remus 想，下意識地閃躲開來。幸運的是，Peter 要麼是太害怕了，要麼是無能，爆炸咒並沒有產生通常的毀滅性效果。不過，這足以對樹妖身後的樹木造成嚴重破壞，點燃了幾片樹葉。她尖叫了一聲，痛苦的聲音讓人心碎，立即轉身去處理冒煙的樹枝。Peter 和 Remus 抓住機會跑了起來，藤蔓在他們從地面上拔腳時斷裂。

Peter followed Remus, but neither of them were especially fast runners, and by the time they judged it safe to stop, they were both wheezing heavily. Peter 跟著 Remus，但他們都不是特別快的跑者，等到他們覺得安全可以停下來時，他們都喘得很厲害。

“Bloody… hell… Pete…” Remus panted bending forward, one arm against an oak for support. “該死……Pete……”Remus 喘著氣彎腰，用一隻手臂撐著一棵橡樹。

“I didn’t know what to do!” Peter replied, red-faced, pale hair plastered to his forehead. “Let’s go back, Remus, please…” He looked around, anxiously. They were even deeper in the woods now, and other than their own labored breathing it was deathly quiet. “我不知道該怎麼辦！”Peter 回答道，臉色通紅，蒼白的頭髮貼在額頭上。“我們回去吧，Remus，拜託……”他焦急地環顧四周。他們現在在樹林裡更深處，除了他們自己喘息的聲音外，四周寂靜無聲。

 

“Just as Livia said. Toothless. Told father you weren't ready. Told him it was too soon.”
“正如 Livia 所說。牙無，告訴父親你還未準備好。告訴他這還為時已早。”

“Too soon for what?”
“為什麼還早？”

“For the big night, of course,” Castor was smiling again, a sinister grin which made Remus feel queasy. The werewolf continued, recognising Remus’s uncertainty, “On the night of the next moon, the pack will be on the hunt. It will be a hunt such as the world has not seen since the dark ages.”
“當然是為了那個大夜晚。”Castor 再次露出邪惡的笑容，使 Remus 感到不安。狼人繼續說，察覺到 Remus 的不確定，“在下次月亮的那晚，狼群將會出獵。這將是一場自黑暗時代以來未曾見過的獵殺。”

“Why are you telling me this?” There was a quaver on Remus’s voice now, as much as he tried to disguise it, “You know I’m going straight to Dumbledore.”
“你為什麼告訴我這些？”Remus 的聲音顫抖著，儘管他努力掩飾，“你知道我會直接去找鄧不利多。”

Castor laughed, a breathless, hollow sound coming from deep in his chest.
Castor 笑了，從胸腔深處發出一種無力而空洞的聲音。

“Perfect.”
“太好了。”

CRACK
咔嚓

Remus winced as the air around them shimmered slightly, and he staggered back from the figure who had appeared between them in the clearing. She hissed, low under her breath, steely eyes flicking from Remus to Castor. Livia.
Remus 皺起了眉頭，當他們周圍的空氣輕微顫動時，他從出現在空地上的身影旁踉蹌後退。她低聲嘶嘶作響，鋼鐵般的眼睛在 Remus 和 Castor 之間來回掃視。Livia。

“Sister!” Castor rasped, straining for freedom once more, “Release me!”
“姐姐！”Castor 嘶啞地喊道，再次掙扎著尋求自由，“放開我！”

“You have failed our father.” She replied. “Punishment awaits.”
“你讓我們的父親失望了。”她回答道。“懲罰在等待著你。”

“No!” Castor protested, “It was the dryad, I could not--”
“不！”Castor 抗議道，“是那乾枯的樹精，我無法——”

Livia raised a hand, and Castor was silenced, unable to move or make a sound. Remus’s insides froze as she turned on him.
Livia 舉起一隻手，Castor 立刻噤聲，無法移動或發出聲音。當她轉向 Remus 時，Remus 的內心凍結了。

“Hello, my love. Are you ready?”
“你好，我的愛人。你準備好了嗎？”

Remus pulled his wand out and pointed it at her, assuming a duelling stance and rooting himself to the ground. She would not hold him, this time. This time he knew what to expect.
Remus 拔出魔杖，指向她，擺出決鬥姿勢，將自己固定在地上。這次，她不會控制他了。這次，他知道會發生什麼。

“I’m not going anywhere, Livia.”
“我不會去哪裡的，Livia。”

“There isn’t time for this, the moon approaches.” She tutted, walking towards him, as ragged and filthy and wild as he remembered her. “Drop that silly stick.” She raised a hand and twisted it mid air, as if she was turning a door knob. Remus felt the strength of it, prying his fingers apart, his wand burning in his hand, but this time, he did not drop it. He clenched his teeth and gathered every ounce of magic from the woods around him.
“沒有時間再拖延了，月亮快要來了。”她嘆了口氣，向他走去，依舊是那樣破爛、骯髒、狂野，就像他記得的那樣。“把那根愚蠢的棍子放下。”她舉起一隻手，在空中旋轉，就像她在轉門把手。Remus 感覺到那股力量，撬開了他的手指，魔杖在他手中燃燒，但這次，他沒有放下。 他咬緊牙關，從周圍的樹林中汲取所有的魔力。

“No.”
“不。”

“Remus Lupin.” She growled, “You will come with us.”
“Remus Lupin。”她低聲咆哮，“你會跟我們走。”

She raised both arms now, and flicked her fingers, so that they fanned out from her palms. The trees surrounding Remus caught light in an instant, from trunk to branches, blazing columns of fire roaring around him. He was terrified, but he was not letting go.
她現在雙手高舉，手指輕輕一揮，使它們從她的掌心擴散開來。環繞 Remus 的樹木瞬間被點燃，從樹幹到樹枝，火焰的柱子在他周圍咆哮。他感到恐懼，但他沒有放手。

“No.” He repeated, stepping backwards, slowly. He would run, if he had to, let the dryads deal with them - let the centaurs do it, come to that. You didn’t just show up in a forest like this and start burning it down.
“不。”他重複道，慢慢向後退。如果有必要，他會逃跑，讓樹精處理他們——如果需要的話，讓半人馬去做。你不會隨便出現在這樣的森林中，然後開始燒毀它。

Livia snapped her fingers then, and at once Castor was freed from his bondage, gasping and snarling. He joined his pack mate, and now there were two of them, their eyes glowing like hot coals, reflecting back the flames surrounding them.
Livia 突然打了個響指，Castor 立即被解放出來，喘息著和咆哮著。他與他的同伴會合，現在有了兩個，他們的眼睛像炙熱的煤炭一樣發光，反射著圍繞他們的火焰。

“The time has come, Remus Lupin,” they said, in unison, as black smoke began to fill the air, the scent of sap and pine fizzling around them.
“時候到了，Remus Lupin，”他們齊聲說道，當黑煙開始充滿空氣，樹脂和松樹的氣味在他們周圍散發。

“No.” He said again, though he could see no way out, now. “Mordeo!” He shouted, aiming his wand at them, as he backed away. Castor recoiled, growling, but Livia laughed throatily, and waved her hand again, dismissing the curse as if it was no more than a cobweb.
“不。”他再次說道，雖然現在他看不到任何出路。“Mordeo！”他喊道，將魔杖對準他們，向後退去。Castor 往後退，低聲咆哮，但 Livia 咯咯笑了，再次揮動手，將詛咒當作一根蛛網般拋開。

This was it. They were going to take him - god knows where - and make him one of them. He would never see his friends again, never see Sirius again. He had been such an idiot, forcing them to stay behind. Now there was nobody left to protect him.
這就是結局了。他們將帶走他——天知道去哪裡——並讓他成為他們的一員。他再也見不到他的朋友，再也見不到天狼星了。他真是個傻瓜，強迫他們留在後面。現在再也沒有人可以保護他了。

There’s you. Remus didn’t recognise this voice. It wasn’t Grant’s, or anyone he’d ‘spoken to’ before. But maybe it was right. There was a spell he hadn’t considered, simply because he had never mastered it properly. But he was in dire straits now, and he had more power than ever before at his disposal.
有你。Remus 不認識這個聲音。它不是 Grant 的，也不是他以前‘交談過’的任何人的。但也許這是對的。有一個他從未考慮過的咒語，只因為他從未真正掌握過它。但現在他處於困境中，他擁有比以往更多的力量。

As bright embers and burning leaves rained down on the three of them, Remus gathered all of his resources; his strength, and his rage, and every joy in his heart. He would have to be ready to run, as soon as the incantation was spoken. If it failed, he would have no time at all to make his escape.
當明亮的炭火和燃燒的樹葉降落在他們三人身上時，Remus 集中起來所有的資源；他的力量、憤怒，以及心中的每一份喜悅。他必須準備好在咒語發動的瞬間立刻逃跑。如果失敗，他將沒有時間逃脫。

He breathed in, carefully, and - just before he cast the spell - recalled Sirius’s eyes, and Sirius’s mouth, and Sirius grinning. “I’m mental about you.”
他小心地吸了口氣，在施咒之前，他回想起天狼星的眼睛、天狼星的嘴巴，還有天狼星的微笑。“我對你癡迷。”

“Expecto Patronum!” He practically screamed it, extending his arm, directing his wand as an enormous silver animal burst forth, leaping towards Livia and Castor, huge jaws wide, claws bared. In the split second before he began to run, Remus saw them both cover their eyes, and turn to run in the opposite direction as the great beast lunged at them.
“Expecto Patronum！”他幾乎是在尖叫著施法，伸出手臂，指揮著魔杖，一隻巨大的銀色生物爆發出來，向 Livia 和 Castor 跳去，巨大的嘴巴張開，爪子豎起。在他開始奔跑的瞬間，Remus 看見他們兩人都遮住了眼睛，轉身逃向相反的方向，當那隻巨大的生物向他們撲去。

But there wasn’t time to stay and enjoy his success, so he didn’t. He ran again, for the edge of the woods; back to Hogsmeade, and the wizarding world, and his friends. Remus ran so hard that his legs were burning, and the pain in his hip was like a spear in his side, but he did not stop, lungs full of woodsmoke and eyes watering, he just kept going until the trees began to thin, and the light grew stronger.
但沒有時間停下來享受他的成功，所以他沒有。 他再次奔跑，朝向森林的邊緣；回到 Hogsmeade，回到魔法世界，回到他的朋友們身邊。Remus 跑得如此劇烈，以至於他的雙腿在燃燒，臀部的疼痛就像是刺在側邊的矛，但他沒有停下來，肺部充滿了樹木的煙霧，眼睛含淚，他只是繼續前進，直到樹木變得稀疏，光線變得更加明亮。

Peter and Sirius were still there. Sirius was pacing erratically back and forth on the footpath. Peter was sitting on the ground with his knees drawn up, staring at the woods. He looked as though he had been crying.
Peter 和 Sirius 仍然在那裡。Sirius 在人行道上來回踱步，神情焦躁。Peter 坐在地上，雙膝縮在胸前，盯著森林。他看起來像是哭過。

Remus staggered out into the daylight, and felt ready to collapse right there. Peter stood up, wiping his eyes in disbelief, and Sirius ran towards him, and then stopped, suddenly, and was knocked back, as though he’d hit a wall. Furious, he gave out an angry grunt. Remus allowed one of the knots inside him to unravel, and the barrier was lifted. He limped towards his two friends, wheezing.
Remus 搖搖晃晃地走入陽光下，感到隨時會倒下。Peter 站起來，難以置信地擦拭眼睛，Sirius 跑向他，然後突然停下，彷彿撞上了牆壁。憤怒地，他發出了一聲憤怒的哼聲。Remus 讓內心的結鬆解開，障礙被解除。他跛行向兩位朋友走去，喘息著。

“Sorry.” He murmured.
“對不起。”他低聲說道。

Much to his surprise, Sirius threw his arms around his neck, and held him tightly. His heartbeat thrummed against Remus’s, and he hugged him back, exhausted and grateful.
令他驚訝的是，Sirius 把手臂圍住他的脖子，緊緊抱住他。他的心跳與 Remus 的心跳互相碰撞，他也回擁著他，感到疲憊而感激。

“We couldn’t come and help.” Sirius said, his voice hoarse and hollow, “Whatever you did… we couldn’t follow you.”
“我們不能來幫忙。”Sirius 說道，聲音嘶啞而空洞，“無論你做了什麼……我們無法跟隨你。”

“I’m sorry.” Remus said, again.
“對不起。”Remus 再次說道。

“I’m so sorry, Remus!” Peter suddenly burst out, his eyes filling with tears again, “I’m so sorry!”
“對不起，Remus！”Peter 突然激動地說，他的眼睛再次充滿淚水，“對不起！”

“It’s ok.” Remus reached out an arm to pat his shoulder, but Sirius wouldn’t let him go yet. Finally, Remus came back to his senses, and gently untangled himself, “I have to see Dumbledore, right now. Where are the others?”
“沒關係。”Remus 伸出手臂拍了拍他的肩膀，但 Sirius 還不願意放開他。最終，Remus 恢復了理智，輕輕地脫身，“我現在必須去見鄧不利多。其他人在哪裡？”

“They had to go back,” Sirius explained, “Curfew. They said they’d tell McGonagall.”
“他們必須回去了，”Sirius 解釋道，“宿舍規定。他們說會告訴 McGonagall。”

“Good.” Remus nodded. “Come on, we have to go, now.” He began to hobble towards the village.
“好。”Remus 點了點頭。“我們得走了，現在。”他開始跛行著向村莊走去。

“Moony, are you ok?” Sirius hurried alongside him, an arm under his shoulder for support.
“Moony，你還好嗎？”Sirius 急忙跟在他身旁，伸手搭在他的肩膀上以示支持。

“Just tired,” Remus said.
“只是累了，”Remus 說道。

“You’re covered in… is that soot?”
“你滿身都是……那是煤灰嗎？”

“There was a fire…”
“有場火……”

“Wormtail said something was summoning you.”
“Wormtail 說有東西在召喚你。”

“I can’t… I can’t explain it, yet, please don’t ask me.”
“我不能……我還無法解釋，請不要問我。”

“Fine.” There was a cold edge to Sirius’s voice which Remus didn’t like, but he kept supporting him, and he kept going, so it would have to be ignored for now. One thing at a time.
“好。”Sirius 的聲音帶著冷漠，Remus 不喜歡，但他繼續支持他，繼續前行，所以現在只能忽略這一點。一件事情一次處理。

McGonagall was waiting for them at the school gates, her arms folded, deep lines creasing her forehead.
McGonagall 在學校的大門口等著他們，雙臂交叉，額頭上深深的皺紋刻畫出她的焦慮。

“Professor!” Remus spluttered, still coughing up smoke, “I’m sorry we missed the curfew, but I need to see the headmaster right--”
“教授！”Remus 喘息著說，還在咳嗽，“對不起我們錯過了宵禁，但我需要立刻去見校長——”

“Yes of course, Lupin, come with me.” McGonagall nodded, quickly, and took his arm from Sirius. She peered down at Sirius and Peter. “You two go to the tower and say nothing. I don’t want any arguments, do you hear me?”
“是的，當然，Lupin，跟我來。”McGonagall 點了點頭，迅速地將他的手臂從 Sirius 那裡取下。她看了一眼 Sirius 和 Peter。“你們兩個去塔樓，什麼也不要說。我不想聽到任何爭論，你們聽見了嗎？”

The two young men were so surprised by these sharp instructions that they both nodded and left, immediately, Sirius throwing one glance back at Remus.
這兩位年輕人對這些嚴厲的指示感到非常驚訝，於是他們立刻點頭離開了，Sirius 向 Remus 投去了一瞥。

He told Dumbledore almost everything. He told him about the scent, and the dryad, and Castor. About the fire, and the plans Greyback had for his pack, and Livia. He did not mention the barrier he had somehow conjured, to keep his friends back. Nor did he explain that he had known how dangerous it would be, or that he had ignored every ounce of good sense he had in order to pursue Castor.
他告訴了鄧不利多幾乎所有的事情。他告訴了他氣味、樹精和 Castor 的事情。還有火焰、Greyback 對他的狼群的計劃，以及 Livia。他沒有提到他不知怎麼地施放了屏障來阻止朋友們靠近，也沒有解釋他知道這將會有多麼危險，或者他無視了所有的理智來追捕 Castor。

Dumbledore seemed very pleased, nonetheless.
儘管如此，鄧不利多似乎非常滿意。

“Everything you have told me is immensely useful, Remus.” The old man said, smiling across his desk at Remus with eyes twinkling with pride, for the first time Remus could remember. “You were very brave, and fulfilled your task admirably.”
“你告訴我的一切都非常有用，Remus。”老人說道，對著 Remus 微笑，眼中閃爍著驕傲的光芒，是 Remus 記憶中的第一次。“你非常勇敢，完美地完成了你的任務。”

“I… I did? Even though I went in the forbidden forest?”
“我……我做到了？即使我進入了禁忌森林？”

“You followed your quarry. And I don’t see that any harm has come to you? You are clearly a formidable wizard, like your father.”
“你追蹤了你的獵物。我看不出你受到任何傷害？你顯然是一位強大的巫師，就像你的父親一樣。”

Remus felt a very small twinge of pleasure at that, which put him more at ease.
Remus 感到了一絲微小的滿足，這讓他感到更加放鬆。

“This attack, though… the hunt they’re planning--”
“但這次襲擊……他們計劃的狩獵——”

“Let the Order deal with that.” Dumbledore shook his head, placing his hands on his desk and rising to his feet. “You have done quite enough - more than anyone could expect of a seventeen year old wizard.”
“讓秘社來處理吧。”鄧不利多搖了搖頭，雙手放在桌子上，站了起來。“你已經做得夠多了——超出了任何人對一位十七歲巫師的期望。”

“Yes, but if I can--”
“是的，但如果我能——”

“I am sorry I asked this of you, Remus.” Dumbledore came around his desk and placed a friendly hand on his shoulder. “I hope I will not have to ask again.”
“對不起，我要求你這樣做，Remus。”鄧不利多繞過桌子，把友好的手放在他的肩膀上。“我希望我不必再要求你這樣做。”

“I’m on your side.” Remus replied, feeling he ought to reiterate this. “I’ll do what has to be done.”
“我在你這邊。”Remus 回答道，感覺應該重申這一點。“我會做必須做的事。”

Dumbledore’s eyes glittered with triumph, and his grip tightened on Remus’s shoulder.
鄧不利多的眼睛閃爍著勝利的光芒，他的手握緊了 Remus 的肩膀。

The fire had been put out by the naiads, according to McGonagall, who walked him from Dumbledore’s office to the infirmary. There had been no trace of Livia or Castor, and it was assumed they had apparated.
據 McGonagall 說，火已經被水精靈撲滅了，她將 Remus 從鄧不利多的辦公室帶到醫務室。沒有 Livia 或 Castor 的痕跡，大家猜測他們已經使用了瞬間移動。

Madam Pomfrey tutted over him, cleaned off the soot and administered a pain killing draught. By then he was breathing normally again, and perversely quite fancied a cigarette, though he didn’t tell her that. Food was brought to him there, because by this time he had missed dinner, and he ate a pleasant, quiet supper in Madam Pomfrey’s homely little office.
Pomfrey 女士對他嘆了口氣，清理了煤灰並給他服用了止痛藥水。那時，他已經正常呼吸了，儘管他沒有告訴她，但他異常地想抽根煙。食物被送到他那裡，因為到這時候他已經錯過了晚餐，他在 Pomfrey 女士溫馨的小辦公室裡吃了一頓愉快而安靜的晚餐。

Thankfully, he was permitted to walk back to Gryffindor tower alone. His friends were all waiting - not in their usual place by the fire, but in a quieter corner, near one of the far windows. They were all speaking in serious, hushed tones, and their heads turned at once to face him as he appeared through the portrait hole.
幸運的是，他被允許獨自回到格蘭芬多塔樓。他的朋友們都在等著他——不是在他們平常坐在火爐旁的地方，而是在一個較安靜的角落，靠近其中一扇遙遠的窗戶。他們都用嚴肅的低語聲說話，當他從畫像孔中出現時，他們的頭立刻轉向他。

He walked over, a bit woozy from the draught he’d taken, and they made room for him to sit in the window seat, squashed between Lily and Sirius, who quickly squeezed his hand, before letting go. They all stared at him, and waited for him to speak, so he did.
他走過去，有些暈眩，因為他服用了藥水，他們讓出空間讓他坐在窗邊的座位上，擠在 Lily 和 Sirius 之間，Sirius 迅速握了握他的手，然後放開了。他們都盯著他，等待他開口，他於是開始說話。

He told them as much as he could - and a few things he hadn’t said to Dumbledore. Peter had luckily already covered the dryad, and apparently the marauders had spent much of their evening explaining the animagus secret to Lily. Still, she covered her mouth in horror when Remus talked about encountering Castor, and Livia’s incredible powers, and the fire… Sirius was practically quaking with rage beside him, but held his tongue the whole time, and let Remus finish.
他告訴了他們他能說的盡可能多的事情——還有一些他沒有告訴鄧不利多的事情。幸運的是，Peter 已經涵蓋了樹精的部分，顯然，小強們大部分時間都在向 Lily 解釋 animagus 的秘密。即便如此，當 Remus 講述遇到 Castor、Livia 的驚人力量以及火焰時，她仍然驚恐地捂住了嘴……Sirius 在他身旁幾乎因憤怒而顫抖，但他整個過程中都保持沉默，讓 Remus 講完。

“Bloody hell.” James said, once the story was told. “Well done on the patronus, though, mate.”
“該死。”James 說道，故事講完後。“不過，你的守護神做得很好，伙計。”

“Thanks,” Remus blushed, slightly. Trust James to find something praiseworthy, in all of that.
“謝謝，”Remus 稍微臉紅了。相信 James 能在所有事情中找到值得稱讚的地方。

“Did you see what it was?”
“你看到那是什麼了嗎？”

“No.” he said, quickly, “It happened too fast.”
“沒有。”他迅速回答，“一切發生得太快了。”

Still, Remus shook his head, straightening up. 然而，Remus 還是搖了搖頭，挺直了身子。

“No.” He said, “I have to find them. She hurt him.” “不。”他說，“我必須找到他們。她傷害了他。”

“So what?!” Peter replied, indignant, “We’re not supposed to be here!” “那又怎樣？！”Peter 憤怒地回答，“我們不應該在這裡！”

“Look, I’m sorry you got caught up in this,” Remus frowned, impatiently. Now that they weren’t in immediate danger, his desire to hunt the other wolf down had returned. He could smell blood; he was sure of it. “But I have to. You can go back, if you want - go and find the others.” “看，我很抱歉讓你捲入這件事，”Remus 不耐煩地皺眉。現在他們沒有立即的危險，他對追捕另一隻狼的渴望又回來了。他能聞到血腥味；他確信這一點。“但我必須這麼做。你可以回去，如果你想的話——去找其他人。”

Peter looked behind him, then back at Remus, his eyes big and shimmering. Peter 回頭看了看，然後又看著 Remus，他的眼睛大而閃爍。

“On my own?” The tremor in his voice was palpable, and Remus suddenly wanted him gone more than anything in the world, in case the terror was catching. “我自己一個人？”他的聲音顫抖得很明顯，Remus 突然比什麼都想讓他離開，萬一這種恐懼是會傳染的。

“I’ll give you my watch, so you don’t get lost.” Remus offered. “我會把我的手錶給你，這樣你就不會迷路了。”Remus 提議。

“No.” Peter stiffened his lips, “I’ll come with you.” “不。”Peter 咬緊嘴唇，“我會跟你一起去。”

Pete’s heartbeat was almost deafening, and Remus was starting to feel sorry for him. Peter 的心跳聲幾乎震耳欲聾，Remus 開始對他感到同情。

“It’s ok,” he whispered. “If something happens, you can just transform back, and go and tell the others, can’t you? You’ll know the way better, as a rat.” “沒事的，”他低聲說。“如果發生什麼事，你可以變回原形，去告訴其他人，不是嗎？變成老鼠後你會更清楚路。”

“I won’t leave you, Remus,” Peter whispered, shakily, “I can be brave, I know I can.” “我不會離開你，Remus，”Peter 顫抖地低語，“我可以勇敢，我知道我可以。”

Remus squeezed his shoulder. Remus 捏了捏他的肩膀。

“Fine. This way. Keep as quiet as you can.” “好吧。這邊走。儘量保持安靜。”

The dryad had not come after them, thank goodness. Remus couldn’t remember everything about tree guardians, but he was fairly sure they couldn’t leave their groves. Or maybe that was naiads? He couldn’t remember the difference. 幸好，樹妖沒有追來。Remus 不記得有關樹木守護者的一切，但他相當確定它們不能離開它們的樹叢。或者那是水澤仙女？他記不起來區別了。

But it didn’t matter now, he’d picked up the scent properly. A mouth-watering, rich, iron tang that made his stomach growl shamefully. They were still days out from the full moon, but that didn’t seem to matter to the wolf inside Remus, who was scaling the walls of its prison, howling for freedom. 但現在這些都不重要，他已經正確地聞到了氣味。一股令人垂涎的濃郁鐵味，讓他的肚子羞愧地咕咕叫。離滿月還有幾天，但這對 Remus 體內的狼似乎並不重要，它正在攀爬囚牢的牆壁，渴望自由地嚎叫。

“It’s close.” Remus whispered to Peter, as they pressed through a heavy thicket, probably announcing their arrival to every creature nearby. “很近了。”Remus 對 Peter 低語，當他們穿過一片濃密的灌木叢時，可能向附近的每個生物宣告了他們的到來。

There was another heartbeat, not very far away, and that sounded frightened, too. A few steps more and Remus could hear labored breathing; like someone who had been struggling for a while now, and was beginning to tire. Closer still and he could smell the sweat - and the rage - from this struggle. It was such a strong mix of emotions and energy, that Remus was momentarily lost in the fog of it, too overwhelmed to see a clear direction. Then it changed - stilled, suddenly. A harsh voice rang out, shattering the quiet of the woods, shaking birds from their nests; 不遠處還有另一個心跳聲，聽起來也很害怕。再走幾步，Remus 能聽到勞累的呼吸聲；像是某個人已經掙扎了一段時間，開始疲憊了。再近一點，他能聞到這場掙扎的汗水和憤怒。這是一種如此強烈的情感和能量的混合，以至於 Remus 一時間迷失在其中，太過震撼以至於看不清方向。然後它變了——突然靜止。一個刺耳的聲音響起，打破了森林的寧靜，驚醒了鳥巢中的鳥兒；

“Remus Lupin!” “Remus Lupin！”

Peter gave out a sharp squeak of terror, before leaping a foot in the air, transforming, and turning tail, scampering away from Remus. No matter. Remus stood taller. Peter 發出一聲尖銳的驚叫，然後跳起一英尺高，變形，轉身逃離 Remus。無所謂。Remus 挺直了身子。

“I’m here.” He whispered, back. “我在這裡。”他回應道。

“Come to me.” “來我這裡。”

That tugging sensation returned to Remus’s chest, and he followed it, letting himself be drawn forward, through to a small clearing of trees. At its center was an ancient yew, gnarled and creaking, and bound to the trunk was a young man. The dryad had him tied in place with miles of cruel, twisted bramble. The thorns were cutting into his worn leather cloak, and puncturing the skin of his neck. His arms were at his sides, and despite obvious attempts to free himself, the brown, sinewy stems held firm. 那種牽引感回到了 Remus 的胸口，他跟隨著它，讓自己被拉向前，穿過一小片空曠的樹林。在其中心是一棵古老的紫杉，盤曲著嘎吱作響，樹幹上綁著一個年輕人。樹妖用數英里的殘酷、扭曲的荊棘把他捆在原地。荊棘刺穿了他破舊的皮斗篷，刺入他的脖子皮膚。他的手臂垂在身側，儘管明顯有試圖掙脫的痕跡，那棕色、肌腱般的莖仍然牢牢地固定著。

He wasn’t struggling now, though. He was just staring at Remus, head bent forward, eyes dark and inscrutable. His head was shaved, as Livia’s had been, and his clothes were weather worn and threadbare, but there the resemblance ended. He was tall; as tall as Remus, and perhaps only a few years older. His skin was as dark as tanned leather, his features handsome and striking. He smiled, slowly, showing rows of straight white teeth. 不過，他現在沒有掙扎。他只是盯著 Remus，頭向前傾，眼神深沉難測。他的頭剃得光光的，像 Livia 一樣，衣服被風雨侵蝕得破爛不堪，但相似之處也僅限於此。他很高；和 Remus 一樣高，可能只大了幾歲。他的皮膚像鞣過的皮革一樣黝黑，五官俊美而醒目。他慢慢地笑了，露出一排整齊的白牙。

“Remus Lupin. Set me free.” “Remus Lupin。放我自由。”

“Who are you?” Remus held back, gripping his wand inside his pocket. “你是誰？”Remus 後退一步，握緊口袋裡的魔杖。

“I am Castor. Set me free. I am your brother.” “我是 Castor。放我自由。我是你的兄弟。”

Remus cocked his head. This man was trapped. Utterly at Remus’s mercy. He felt his courage returning. Remus 歪了歪頭。這個人被困住了。完全在 Remus 的掌控之中。他感到勇氣回來了。

“My brother, are you? Greyback send you?” “我的兄弟，是嗎？Greyback 派你來的？”

“Yes.” “是的。”

“Well.” Remus leaned against the nearest tree and folded his arms, “You’re going to have to give me a decent reason to set you free then, aren’t you?” “好吧。”Remus 靠在最近的樹上，抱起手臂，“那你得給我一個合理的理由來放你自由，不是嗎？”

Castor roared, furiously, fighting against his bonds once more, tearing his clothes and driving the thorns deeper into his neck. He was clearly very strong, with a broad build, thick biceps flexing against the vines. Castor 憤怒地咆哮著，再次掙脫束縛，撕裂了他的衣服，把荊棘更深地刺入他的脖子。他顯然非常強壯，體格魁梧，粗壯的二頭肌在藤蔓中彎曲。

“Oh dear,” Remus tutted, conversationally, “Looks like you’re not going anywhere without me.” “哦天哪，”Remus 若無其事地咂嘴道，“看來沒有我你哪裡也去不了。”

He would later wonder where this ridiculous sense of cockiness had come from. After all, the situation Remus now found himself in was every bit as dangerous as the attack on Diagon Alley, which had turned his mind inside out. Perhaps it was the woods, and the power he could feel coursing through him. Perhaps it was Grant’s voice, still ringing in his ears. Perhaps it was simply the familiarity of the situation. Remus had been facing off against bullies who thought they had him figured out since he was six years old. “So?” He said, smiling, “Wanna talk?” 他後來會想知道這種荒謬的自信感從何而來。畢竟，Remus 現在所處的情況與對 Diagon Alley 的襲擊一樣危險，那次襲擊讓他的思維翻轉。也許是因為這片森林，以及他能感受到的力量在他體內流動。也許是 Grant 的聲音，仍然在他耳邊迴響。也許只是因為情況的熟悉。自從他六歲起，Remus 一直在面對那些以為他已經被看透的惡霸。“那麼？”他笑著說，“想聊聊嗎？”

“I was sent to talk.” “我是來談的。”

“Really? Just talk?” “真的嗎？只是談談？”

“Just talk. Set me free.” “只是談談。放我自由。”

“Mm.” Remus played with the tip of his wand, thoughtfully, as if he hadn’t a care in the world. “See, I’ve got a bit of a problem believing you, Castor, mate. Seeing as the last time Greyback sent someone to ‘just talk’ to me, an innocent woman ended up dead.” “嗯。”Remus 若有所思地玩弄著魔杖尖端，彷彿他什麼也不在乎。“看，你讓我有點難以置信，Castor，兄弟。上次 Greyback 派人來‘只是談談’的時候，一個無辜的女人最後死了。”

“My father recognizes his mistake in sending Livia.” The werewolf said, earnestly. He had calmed down a bit, now, and was clearly watching Remus to see where this was going. “So this time he has sent me.” “我父親承認派 Livia 是個錯誤。”那狼人認真地說。他現在冷靜下來了，顯然在觀察 Remus，看看事情的進展。“所以這次他派我來。”

“I can see right through that, too, you know,” Remus mused, “Thought a good-looking bloke might… er… peak my interest, did he?” “我也看穿了這點，你知道，”Remus 若有所思地說，“覺得一個長得好看的傢伙可能會……呃……引起我的興趣，是嗎？”

Castor kept staring at him, eyes narrowing. Remus shrugged and continued, “I mean, I’m flattered, Castor, don’t get me wrong, I’m sure you’re lovely, but I’m still not interested. And I have to say, so far I’m not very impressed. Not as good at magic as your pal Livia, then? She’d have apparated right out of that, no trouble.” Castor 繼續盯著他，眼睛微微眯起。Remus 聳了聳肩，繼續說：“我是說，我感到受寵若驚，Castor，不要誤會我的意思，我相信你很可愛，但我還是沒興趣。我得說，到目前為止我並不太印象深刻。魔法不如你的朋友 Livia，對吧？她早就會幻影移形離開了，毫不費力。”

“That tree-bitch!” Castor snarled, struggling again, “Whatever she’s done, these vines… I can’t use magic…” “那個樹妖！”Castor 咆哮道，再次掙扎，“不管她做了什麼，這些藤蔓……我不能用魔法……”

“Oh I see!” Remus nodded, “Well, must remember to thank her, next time I see her.” “哦，我明白了！”Remus 點了點頭，“嗯，下次見到她一定要記得感謝她。”

“Livia told me about you,” Castor said, “She said you’re Dumbledore’s pet hound, toothless. Wouldn’t hurt a fly, wouldn’t chase a rabbit on a full moon.” “Livia 告訴過我關於你的事，”Castor 說，“她說你是 Dumbledore 的寵物獵犬，沒牙。連蒼蠅都不會傷害，滿月時也不會追兔子。”

“I’m nobody’s pet.” Remus replied, his jaw clenching. “And nor should you be. What’s so great about Greyback, eh? What do you lot think’s going to happen to you when we defeat Voldemort?” “我不是任何人的寵物。”Remus 回答，咬緊牙關。“你也不應該是。Greyback 有什麼了不起的，嗯？當我們打敗 Voldemort 後，你們這幫人覺得會發生什麼？”

“The same thing that always happens to our kind.” Castor replied, giving Remus a pitying look, “We will be hunted and oppressed.” “和我們這種人總是發生的事一樣。”Castor 回答，憐憫地看著 Remus，“我們會被追捕和壓迫。”

“Don’t you want to change that?” Remus implored, taking a step forward. “Don’t you have a family, in the real world? Don’t you want a family, one day?” “你不想改變這一點嗎？”Remus 懇求地說，向前邁了一步。“在現實世界裡，你沒有家庭嗎？你不想有一天有一個家庭嗎？”

“We are a pack. We are everything.” “我們是一個群體。我們是全部。”

Remus sighed. Remus 嘆了口氣。

“You don’t understand. He’s lying to you. I know there’s a way to make things better, to really change the way we’re treated, but it can’t be like this, don’t you see?” “你不明白。他在騙你。我知道有辦法讓事情變得更好，真正改變我們被對待的方式，但不能像這樣，你看不出來嗎？”

Castor sneered. Castor 冷笑。

 

“Just as Livia said. Toothless. Told father you weren't ready. Told him it was too soon.”
“正如 Livia 所說。牙無，告訴父親你還未準備好。告訴他這還為時已早。”

“Too soon for what?”
“為什麼還早？”

“For the big night, of course,” Castor was smiling again, a sinister grin which made Remus feel queasy. The werewolf continued, recognising Remus’s uncertainty, “On the night of the next moon, the pack will be on the hunt. It will be a hunt such as the world has not seen since the dark ages.”
“當然是為了那個大夜晚。”Castor 再次露出邪惡的笑容，使 Remus 感到不安。狼人繼續說，察覺到 Remus 的不確定，“在下次月亮的那晚，狼群將會出獵。這將是一場自黑暗時代以來未曾見過的獵殺。”

“Why are you telling me this?” There was a quaver on Remus’s voice now, as much as he tried to disguise it, “You know I’m going straight to Dumbledore.”
“你為什麼告訴我這些？”Remus 的聲音顫抖著，儘管他努力掩飾，“你知道我會直接去找鄧不利多。”

Castor laughed, a breathless, hollow sound coming from deep in his chest.
Castor 笑了，從胸腔深處發出一種無力而空洞的聲音。

“Perfect.”
“太好了。”

CRACK
咔嚓

Remus winced as the air around them shimmered slightly, and he staggered back from the figure who had appeared between them in the clearing. She hissed, low under her breath, steely eyes flicking from Remus to Castor. Livia.
Remus 皺起了眉頭，當他們周圍的空氣輕微顫動時，他從出現在空地上的身影旁踉蹌後退。她低聲嘶嘶作響，鋼鐵般的眼睛在 Remus 和 Castor 之間來回掃視。Livia。

“Sister!” Castor rasped, straining for freedom once more, “Release me!”
“姐姐！”Castor 嘶啞地喊道，再次掙扎著尋求自由，“放開我！”

“You have failed our father.” She replied. “Punishment awaits.”
“你讓我們的父親失望了。”她回答道。“懲罰在等待著你。”

“No!” Castor protested, “It was the dryad, I could not--”
“不！”Castor 抗議道，“是那乾枯的樹精，我無法——”

Livia raised a hand, and Castor was silenced, unable to move or make a sound. Remus’s insides froze as she turned on him.
Livia 舉起一隻手，Castor 立刻噤聲，無法移動或發出聲音。當她轉向 Remus 時，Remus 的內心凍結了。

“Hello, my love. Are you ready?”
“你好，我的愛人。你準備好了嗎？”

Remus pulled his wand out and pointed it at her, assuming a duelling stance and rooting himself to the ground. She would not hold him, this time. This time he knew what to expect.
Remus 拔出魔杖，指向她，擺出決鬥姿勢，將自己固定在地上。這次，她不會控制他了。這次，他知道會發生什麼。

“I’m not going anywhere, Livia.”
“我不會去哪裡的，Livia。”

“There isn’t time for this, the moon approaches.” She tutted, walking towards him, as ragged and filthy and wild as he remembered her. “Drop that silly stick.” She raised a hand and twisted it mid air, as if she was turning a door knob. Remus felt the strength of it, prying his fingers apart, his wand burning in his hand, but this time, he did not drop it. He clenched his teeth and gathered every ounce of magic from the woods around him.
“沒有時間再拖延了，月亮快要來了。”她嘆了口氣，向他走去，依舊是那樣破爛、骯髒、狂野，就像他記得的那樣。“把那根愚蠢的棍子放下。”她舉起一隻手，在空中旋轉，就像她在轉門把手。Remus 感覺到那股力量，撬開了他的手指，魔杖在他手中燃燒，但這次，他沒有放下。 他咬緊牙關，從周圍的樹林中汲取所有的魔力。

“No.”
“不。”

“Remus Lupin.” She growled, “You will come with us.”
“Remus Lupin。”她低聲咆哮，“你會跟我們走。”

She raised both arms now, and flicked her fingers, so that they fanned out from her palms. The trees surrounding Remus caught light in an instant, from trunk to branches, blazing columns of fire roaring around him. He was terrified, but he was not letting go.
她現在雙手高舉，手指輕輕一揮，使它們從她的掌心擴散開來。環繞 Remus 的樹木瞬間被點燃，從樹幹到樹枝，火焰的柱子在他周圍咆哮。他感到恐懼，但他沒有放手。

“No.” He repeated, stepping backwards, slowly. He would run, if he had to, let the dryads deal with them - let the centaurs do it, come to that. You didn’t just show up in a forest like this and start burning it down.
“不。”他重複道，慢慢向後退。如果有必要，他會逃跑，讓樹精處理他們——如果需要的話，讓半人馬去做。你不會隨便出現在這樣的森林中，然後開始燒毀它。

Livia snapped her fingers then, and at once Castor was freed from his bondage, gasping and snarling. He joined his pack mate, and now there were two of them, their eyes glowing like hot coals, reflecting back the flames surrounding them.
Livia 突然打了個響指，Castor 立即被解放出來，喘息著和咆哮著。他與他的同伴會合，現在有了兩個，他們的眼睛像炙熱的煤炭一樣發光，反射著圍繞他們的火焰。

“The time has come, Remus Lupin,” they said, in unison, as black smoke began to fill the air, the scent of sap and pine fizzling around them.
“時候到了，Remus Lupin，”他們齊聲說道，當黑煙開始充滿空氣，樹脂和松樹的氣味在他們周圍散發。

“No.” He said again, though he could see no way out, now. “Mordeo!” He shouted, aiming his wand at them, as he backed away. Castor recoiled, growling, but Livia laughed throatily, and waved her hand again, dismissing the curse as if it was no more than a cobweb.
“不。”他再次說道，雖然現在他看不到任何出路。“Mordeo！”他喊道，將魔杖對準他們，向後退去。Castor 往後退，低聲咆哮，但 Livia 咯咯笑了，再次揮動手，將詛咒當作一根蛛網般拋開。

This was it. They were going to take him - god knows where - and make him one of them. He would never see his friends again, never see Sirius again. He had been such an idiot, forcing them to stay behind. Now there was nobody left to protect him.
這就是結局了。他們將帶走他——天知道去哪裡——並讓他成為他們的一員。他再也見不到他的朋友，再也見不到天狼星了。他真是個傻瓜，強迫他們留在後面。現在再也沒有人可以保護他了。

There’s you. Remus didn’t recognise this voice. It wasn’t Grant’s, or anyone he’d ‘spoken to’ before. But maybe it was right. There was a spell he hadn’t considered, simply because he had never mastered it properly. But he was in dire straits now, and he had more power than ever before at his disposal.
有你。Remus 不認識這個聲音。它不是 Grant 的，也不是他以前‘交談過’的任何人的。但也許這是對的。有一個他從未考慮過的咒語，只因為他從未真正掌握過它。但現在他處於困境中，他擁有比以往更多的力量。

As bright embers and burning leaves rained down on the three of them, Remus gathered all of his resources; his strength, and his rage, and every joy in his heart. He would have to be ready to run, as soon as the incantation was spoken. If it failed, he would have no time at all to make his escape.
當明亮的炭火和燃燒的樹葉降落在他們三人身上時，Remus 集中起來所有的資源；他的力量、憤怒，以及心中的每一份喜悅。他必須準備好在咒語發動的瞬間立刻逃跑。如果失敗，他將沒有時間逃脫。

He breathed in, carefully, and - just before he cast the spell - recalled Sirius’s eyes, and Sirius’s mouth, and Sirius grinning. “I’m mental about you.”
他小心地吸了口氣，在施咒之前，他回想起天狼星的眼睛、天狼星的嘴巴，還有天狼星的微笑。“我對你癡迷。”

“Expecto Patronum!” He practically screamed it, extending his arm, directing his wand as an enormous silver animal burst forth, leaping towards Livia and Castor, huge jaws wide, claws bared. In the split second before he began to run, Remus saw them both cover their eyes, and turn to run in the opposite direction as the great beast lunged at them.
“Expecto Patronum！”他幾乎是在尖叫著施法，伸出手臂，指揮著魔杖，一隻巨大的銀色生物爆發出來，向 Livia 和 Castor 跳去，巨大的嘴巴張開，爪子豎起。在他開始奔跑的瞬間，Remus 看見他們兩人都遮住了眼睛，轉身逃向相反的方向，當那隻巨大的生物向他們撲去。

But there wasn’t time to stay and enjoy his success, so he didn’t. He ran again, for the edge of the woods; back to Hogsmeade, and the wizarding world, and his friends. Remus ran so hard that his legs were burning, and the pain in his hip was like a spear in his side, but he did not stop, lungs full of woodsmoke and eyes watering, he just kept going until the trees began to thin, and the light grew stronger.
但沒有時間停下來享受他的成功，所以他沒有。 他再次奔跑，朝向森林的邊緣；回到 Hogsmeade，回到魔法世界，回到他的朋友們身邊。Remus 跑得如此劇烈，以至於他的雙腿在燃燒，臀部的疼痛就像是刺在側邊的矛，但他沒有停下來，肺部充滿了樹木的煙霧，眼睛含淚，他只是繼續前進，直到樹木變得稀疏，光線變得更加明亮。

Peter and Sirius were still there. Sirius was pacing erratically back and forth on the footpath. Peter was sitting on the ground with his knees drawn up, staring at the woods. He looked as though he had been crying.
Peter 和 Sirius 仍然在那裡。Sirius 在人行道上來回踱步，神情焦躁。Peter 坐在地上，雙膝縮在胸前，盯著森林。他看起來像是哭過。

Remus staggered out into the daylight, and felt ready to collapse right there. Peter stood up, wiping his eyes in disbelief, and Sirius ran towards him, and then stopped, suddenly, and was knocked back, as though he’d hit a wall. Furious, he gave out an angry grunt. Remus allowed one of the knots inside him to unravel, and the barrier was lifted. He limped towards his two friends, wheezing.
Remus 搖搖晃晃地走入陽光下，感到隨時會倒下。Peter 站起來，難以置信地擦拭眼睛，Sirius 跑向他，然後突然停下，彷彿撞上了牆壁。憤怒地，他發出了一聲憤怒的哼聲。Remus 讓內心的結鬆解開，障礙被解除。他跛行向兩位朋友走去，喘息著。

“Sorry.” He murmured.
“對不起。”他低聲說道。

Much to his surprise, Sirius threw his arms around his neck, and held him tightly. His heartbeat thrummed against Remus’s, and he hugged him back, exhausted and grateful.
令他驚訝的是，Sirius 把手臂圍住他的脖子，緊緊抱住他。他的心跳與 Remus 的心跳互相碰撞，他也回擁著他，感到疲憊而感激。

“We couldn’t come and help.” Sirius said, his voice hoarse and hollow, “Whatever you did… we couldn’t follow you.”
“我們不能來幫忙。”Sirius 說道，聲音嘶啞而空洞，“無論你做了什麼……我們無法跟隨你。”

“I’m sorry.” Remus said, again.
“對不起。”Remus 再次說道。

“I’m so sorry, Remus!” Peter suddenly burst out, his eyes filling with tears again, “I’m so sorry!”
“對不起，Remus！”Peter 突然激動地說，他的眼睛再次充滿淚水，“對不起！”

“It’s ok.” Remus reached out an arm to pat his shoulder, but Sirius wouldn’t let him go yet. Finally, Remus came back to his senses, and gently untangled himself, “I have to see Dumbledore, right now. Where are the others?”
“沒關係。”Remus 伸出手臂拍了拍他的肩膀，但 Sirius 還不願意放開他。最終，Remus 恢復了理智，輕輕地脫身，“我現在必須去見鄧不利多。其他人在哪裡？”

“They had to go back,” Sirius explained, “Curfew. They said they’d tell McGonagall.”
“他們必須回去了，”Sirius 解釋道，“宿舍規定。他們說會告訴 McGonagall。”

“Good.” Remus nodded. “Come on, we have to go, now.” He began to hobble towards the village.
“好。”Remus 點了點頭。“我們得走了，現在。”他開始跛行著向村莊走去。

“Moony, are you ok?” Sirius hurried alongside him, an arm under his shoulder for support.
“Moony，你還好嗎？”Sirius 急忙跟在他身旁，伸手搭在他的肩膀上以示支持。

“Just tired,” Remus said.
“只是累了，”Remus 說道。

“You’re covered in… is that soot?”
“你滿身都是……那是煤灰嗎？”

“There was a fire…”
“有場火……”

“Wormtail said something was summoning you.”
“Wormtail 說有東西在召喚你。”

“I can’t… I can’t explain it, yet, please don’t ask me.”
“我不能……我還無法解釋，請不要問我。”

“Fine.” There was a cold edge to Sirius’s voice which Remus didn’t like, but he kept supporting him, and he kept going, so it would have to be ignored for now. One thing at a time.
“好。”Sirius 的聲音帶著冷漠，Remus 不喜歡，但他繼續支持他，繼續前行，所以現在只能忽略這一點。一件事情一次處理。

McGonagall was waiting for them at the school gates, her arms folded, deep lines creasing her forehead.
McGonagall 在學校的大門口等著他們，雙臂交叉，額頭上深深的皺紋刻畫出她的焦慮。

“Professor!” Remus spluttered, still coughing up smoke, “I’m sorry we missed the curfew, but I need to see the headmaster right--”
“教授！”Remus 喘息著說，還在咳嗽，“對不起我們錯過了宵禁，但我需要立刻去見校長——”

“Yes of course, Lupin, come with me.” McGonagall nodded, quickly, and took his arm from Sirius. She peered down at Sirius and Peter. “You two go to the tower and say nothing. I don’t want any arguments, do you hear me?”
“是的，當然，Lupin，跟我來。”McGonagall 點了點頭，迅速地將他的手臂從 Sirius 那裡取下。她看了一眼 Sirius 和 Peter。“你們兩個去塔樓，什麼也不要說。我不想聽到任何爭論，你們聽見了嗎？”

The two young men were so surprised by these sharp instructions that they both nodded and left, immediately, Sirius throwing one glance back at Remus.
這兩位年輕人對這些嚴厲的指示感到非常驚訝，於是他們立刻點頭離開了，Sirius 向 Remus 投去了一瞥。

He told Dumbledore almost everything. He told him about the scent, and the dryad, and Castor. About the fire, and the plans Greyback had for his pack, and Livia. He did not mention the barrier he had somehow conjured, to keep his friends back. Nor did he explain that he had known how dangerous it would be, or that he had ignored every ounce of good sense he had in order to pursue Castor.
他告訴了鄧不利多幾乎所有的事情。他告訴了他氣味、樹精和 Castor 的事情。還有火焰、Greyback 對他的狼群的計劃，以及 Livia。他沒有提到他不知怎麼地施放了屏障來阻止朋友們靠近，也沒有解釋他知道這將會有多麼危險，或者他無視了所有的理智來追捕 Castor。

Dumbledore seemed very pleased, nonetheless.
儘管如此，鄧不利多似乎非常滿意。

“Everything you have told me is immensely useful, Remus.” The old man said, smiling across his desk at Remus with eyes twinkling with pride, for the first time Remus could remember. “You were very brave, and fulfilled your task admirably.”
“你告訴我的一切都非常有用，Remus。”老人說道，對著 Remus 微笑，眼中閃爍著驕傲的光芒，是 Remus 記憶中的第一次。“你非常勇敢，完美地完成了你的任務。”

“I… I did? Even though I went in the forbidden forest?”
“我……我做到了？即使我進入了禁忌森林？”

“You followed your quarry. And I don’t see that any harm has come to you? You are clearly a formidable wizard, like your father.”
“你追蹤了你的獵物。我看不出你受到任何傷害？你顯然是一位強大的巫師，就像你的父親一樣。”

Remus felt a very small twinge of pleasure at that, which put him more at ease.
Remus 感到了一絲微小的滿足，這讓他感到更加放鬆。

“This attack, though… the hunt they’re planning--”
“但這次襲擊……他們計劃的狩獵——”

“Let the Order deal with that.” Dumbledore shook his head, placing his hands on his desk and rising to his feet. “You have done quite enough - more than anyone could expect of a seventeen year old wizard.”
“讓秘社來處理吧。”鄧不利多搖了搖頭，雙手放在桌子上，站了起來。“你已經做得夠多了——超出了任何人對一位十七歲巫師的期望。”

“Yes, but if I can--”
“是的，但如果我能——”

“I am sorry I asked this of you, Remus.” Dumbledore came around his desk and placed a friendly hand on his shoulder. “I hope I will not have to ask again.”
“對不起，我要求你這樣做，Remus。”鄧不利多繞過桌子，把友好的手放在他的肩膀上。“我希望我不必再要求你這樣做。”

“I’m on your side.” Remus replied, feeling he ought to reiterate this. “I’ll do what has to be done.”
“我在你這邊。”Remus 回答道，感覺應該重申這一點。“我會做必須做的事。”

Dumbledore’s eyes glittered with triumph, and his grip tightened on Remus’s shoulder.
鄧不利多的眼睛閃爍著勝利的光芒，他的手握緊了 Remus 的肩膀。

The fire had been put out by the naiads, according to McGonagall, who walked him from Dumbledore’s office to the infirmary. There had been no trace of Livia or Castor, and it was assumed they had apparated.
據 McGonagall 說，火已經被水精靈撲滅了，她將 Remus 從鄧不利多的辦公室帶到醫務室。沒有 Livia 或 Castor 的痕跡，大家猜測他們已經使用了瞬間移動。

Madam Pomfrey tutted over him, cleaned off the soot and administered a pain killing draught. By then he was breathing normally again, and perversely quite fancied a cigarette, though he didn’t tell her that. Food was brought to him there, because by this time he had missed dinner, and he ate a pleasant, quiet supper in Madam Pomfrey’s homely little office.
Pomfrey 女士對他嘆了口氣，清理了煤灰並給他服用了止痛藥水。那時，他已經正常呼吸了，儘管他沒有告訴她，但他異常地想抽根煙。食物被送到他那裡，因為到這時候他已經錯過了晚餐，他在 Pomfrey 女士溫馨的小辦公室裡吃了一頓愉快而安靜的晚餐。

Thankfully, he was permitted to walk back to Gryffindor tower alone. His friends were all waiting - not in their usual place by the fire, but in a quieter corner, near one of the far windows. They were all speaking in serious, hushed tones, and their heads turned at once to face him as he appeared through the portrait hole.
幸運的是，他被允許獨自回到格蘭芬多塔樓。他的朋友們都在等著他——不是在他們平常坐在火爐旁的地方，而是在一個較安靜的角落，靠近其中一扇遙遠的窗戶。他們都用嚴肅的低語聲說話，當他從畫像孔中出現時，他們的頭立刻轉向他。

He walked over, a bit woozy from the draught he’d taken, and they made room for him to sit in the window seat, squashed between Lily and Sirius, who quickly squeezed his hand, before letting go. They all stared at him, and waited for him to speak, so he did.
他走過去，有些暈眩，因為他服用了藥水，他們讓出空間讓他坐在窗邊的座位上，擠在 Lily 和 Sirius 之間，Sirius 迅速握了握他的手，然後放開了。他們都盯著他，等待他開口，他於是開始說話。

He told them as much as he could - and a few things he hadn’t said to Dumbledore. Peter had luckily already covered the dryad, and apparently the marauders had spent much of their evening explaining the animagus secret to Lily. Still, she covered her mouth in horror when Remus talked about encountering Castor, and Livia’s incredible powers, and the fire… Sirius was practically quaking with rage beside him, but held his tongue the whole time, and let Remus finish.
他告訴了他們他能說的盡可能多的事情——還有一些他沒有告訴鄧不利多的事情。幸運的是，Peter 已經涵蓋了樹精的部分，顯然，小強們大部分時間都在向 Lily 解釋 animagus 的秘密。即便如此，當 Remus 講述遇到 Castor、Livia 的驚人力量以及火焰時，她仍然驚恐地捂住了嘴……Sirius 在他身旁幾乎因憤怒而顫抖，但他整個過程中都保持沉默，讓 Remus 講完。

“Bloody hell.” James said, once the story was told. “Well done on the patronus, though, mate.”
“該死。”James 說道，故事講完後。“不過，你的守護神做得很好，伙計。”

“Thanks,” Remus blushed, slightly. Trust James to find something praiseworthy, in all of that.
“謝謝，”Remus 稍微臉紅了。相信 James 能在所有事情中找到值得稱讚的地方。

“Did you see what it was?”
“你看到那是什麼了嗎？”

“No.” he said, quickly, “It happened too fast.”
“沒有。”他迅速回答，“一切發生得太快了。”

 

Not long afterwards, they all trailed up to bed, one at a time, each of them with their faces set in a determined mask. Remus realised that he was not the only one who had had a very trying day. He took a quick shower, to get the last of the forest off him, and brushed his teeth without looking in the mirror, too afraid of what he might see there. Sirius still hadn’t tried to talk to him, or confront him about the terrible betrayal back at the forest edge, but Remus was certain this was yet to come, and though he knew it would be hard, he looked forward to clearing the air.
不久之後，他們一個接一個地上了床，每個人都帶著決心的面具。Remus 意識到自己不是唯一度過了艱難一天的人。他快速洗了個澡，將身上的森林氣味洗掉，然後刷牙時沒有看鏡子，太害怕看到那裡的景象。Sirius 仍然沒有嘗試與他交談，或對他在森林邊緣的可怕背叛進行對峙，但 Remus 確信這件事還未結束，雖然他知道這會很艱難，但他期待著澄清一切。

For hours, he lay in bed, waiting and hoping. Sirius always came to him, on a night like this; if something had happened. Sirius always knew when Remus needed to talk; even when Remus didn’t want to, Sirius could get it out of him, and make everything right again. Remus waited for a long time. Come on, he thought to himself, I need you, where are you?
幾個小時過去了，他躺在床上，等待和希望。像這樣的夜晚，Sirius 總會來找他；如果發生了什麼事。Sirius 總是知道 Remus 何時需要交談；即使 Remus 不想說，Sirius 也能把事情說出來，讓一切恢復正常。Remus 等了很久。快點，他在心裡想，我需要你，你在哪裡？

He ain’t a mind reader, sweetheart. Grant’s chirpy voice broke through once more.
他可不是讀心術的，親愛的。Grant 那輕快的聲音再次打破了沉默。

He knows me, though.
但他了解我。

Oh yeah? You ever told him?
哦，是嗎？你告訴過他嗎？

Remus declined to answer, because it was no longer necessary. Working through problems in your head using imaginary roleplay was all well and good. But that’s what he’d done when he’d felt most alone. When he thought he’d had no one else to turn to. He realised with a sickening sense of shame just how stupid he’d been. Without wasting another moment, he slid out of bed and crossed the floor. He parted Sirius’s bed curtains, and whispered into the darkness,
Remus 沒有回答，因為這已經不再必要。用幻想角色扮演的方式在腦海中解決問題雖然不錯，但這是他在感到最孤獨時做的事。當他認為自己沒有其他可以依靠的人時。他帶著噁心的羞愧感意識到自己有多愚蠢。沒有再浪費一刻鐘，他滑出床，穿過房間。他撥開 Sirius 的床簾，低聲在黑暗中說道，

“Sirius?”
“Sirius？”

“What?” Sirius was lying on his back, too, hands folded over his middle like a tombstone effigy. His coldness made Remus flinch, but he swallowed his pride.
“什麼？”Sirius 也躺在背上，雙手交叉在中間，像石碑上的雕像。他的冷漠讓 Remus 略感震驚，但他吞下了自尊。

“I need you.”
“我需要你。”

Sirius turned his head at once. He sighed and pulled back the covers.
Sirius 立刻轉過頭來。他嘆了口氣，拉開了被子。

“Get in.”
“進來吧。”

Remus scrambled inside, eagerly. They lay next to each other, on their sides, staring at each other.
Remus 迫不及待地爬進床裡。他們側躺在一起，對視著。

“Do you hate me?” Remus asked.
“你恨我嗎？”Remus 問道。

“No.” Sirius replied, voice still empty.
“沒有。”Sirius 回答，聲音仍然空洞。

“I’m really sorry. I wanted to protect you all.”
“我真的很抱歉。我想保護你們所有人。”

“I know. That’s what James said.” Sirius’s voice had melted slightly, and was now more petulant than angry.
“我知道。James 也是這麼說的。”Sirius 的聲音稍微變軟了，現在更像是發脾氣，而不是憤怒。

“But it’s no excuse,” Remus continued. “I just… I wasn’t myself. Do you understand?”
“但這不是借口，”Remus 繼續道。“我只……我不是我自己。你明白嗎？”

Sirius shrugged, moving the bed sheets so that they slid off his shoulder, exposing his collar bone. Remus tried not to get too distracted by that, and licked his lips, meeting Sirius’s eye again.
Sirius 聳了聳肩，讓床單滑落，露出了他的鎖骨。Remus 試著不被這個分心，舔了舔嘴唇，再次與 Sirius 眼神對上。

“I’ll tell you everything.” He said.
“我會告訴你一切。”他說。

“You told us.” Sirius replied, tetchily.
“你告訴過我們。”Sirius 不耐煩地回答道。

“Not everything.” Remus replied, “There are things I don’t want everyone to know about. But. I want you to know. If that’s ok?”
“不是所有的事。”Remus 回答道，“有些事我不希望大家知道。但。我希望你知道。如果可以的話？”

Sirius stared at him as if he couldn’t believe his ears. A small smile was creeping onto his face, and he was obviously trying to suppress it.
Sirius 盯著他，好像不敢相信自己的耳朵。臉上出現了一絲微笑，顯然他在努力抑制它。

“Go on, then.”
“那麼，繼續說吧。”

So he did. He told him every feeling he had had - the irresistible pull into the forest, the rugged power of natural magic, the terrible guilt. By the time he had stopped speaking, he realised that Sirius had reached out to him, and was stroking his arm, gently, back and forth to comfort him.
所以他這麼做了。他告訴他自己所有的感受——被森林的不可抗拒的吸引、自然魔法的強大力量、那種可怕的內疚。當他停止說話時，他意識到 Sirius 已經伸出手來，輕輕地撫摸他的手臂，來安慰他。

“What made you think of casting a patronus?”
“什麼讓你想到施放守護神？”

Remus snorted, lightly,
Remus 輕輕哼了一聲，

“It’s stupid. Voice in my head.”
“這很蠢。腦海中的聲音。”

“Ah.”
“啊。”

“Not like the normal voices, though. Usually it’s someone I know.”
“不是像普通的聲音那樣。通常是我認識的人。”

“Maybe this time it was just you.”
“也許這次只是你自己。”

Remus thought about this. It made him feel funny. Sirius was still watching him, still stroking his arm. Remus remembered something else.
Remus 思考了一下。這讓他感覺很奇怪。Sirius 仍在看著他，仍在撫摸他的手臂。Remus 想起了其他的事情。

“It’s a wolf. My patronus. I didn’t want the others to know, I don’t want them to think…”
“那是一隻狼。我 的守護神。我不希望其他人知道，我不希望他們認為……”

“They’d never think badly of you, Moony, they know you too well.”
“他們永遠不會對你有壞印象，Moony，他們太了解你了。”

“Do they, though? After today… I just feel so stupid. I got so caught up, I didn’t know what to do. I just kept getting in deeper and deeper.”
“他們真的了解嗎？今天之後……我感到自己太愚蠢了。我被困在裡面，不知道該怎麼辦。我只是越陷越深。”

“But you did the right thing, in the end.” Sirius said, firmly, gripping him now, “That’s all that matters.” He leaned forward and kissed Remus gently on the lips, a calming gesture. “You came back to us.”
“但最終你做了對的事。”Sirius 堅定地說，現在緊緊握住他，“這才是最重要的。”他向前傾身，輕輕地吻了 Remus 的嘴唇，一個安撫的舉動。“你回到我們身邊了。”

“I…” Remus looked down, lowering his voice to barely a whisper. He looked up at Sirius again, meeting those perfect blue eyes. “I came back to you.”
“我……”Remus 低下頭，將聲音降到幾乎聽不見的低語。他再次抬頭看著 Sirius，對上那完美的藍眼睛。“我回到了你身邊。”

Sirius kissed him again, harder, and did not stop for a long time.

Chapter 131~135Chapter Summary

131. Seventh Year: Interlude (2018-01-24)
132. Seventh Year: Victims (2018-02-12)
133. Seventh Year: Sunday Afternoon (2018-02-13)
134. Seventh Year: Valentine's Day 1978 (2018-02-19)
135. Seventh Year: The Marauder’s Inter-house Prank Planning Co-operative (2018-02-26)


 

Chapter 131: Seventh Year: InterludeSummary:Interlude: /ˈɪntəl(j)uːd/
Noun
1. An intervening period of time; an interval.
2. A temporary amusement or diversion that contrasts with what goes before or after.

 

You look so self-possessed

I won't disturb your rest

It's lovely when you're sleeping

But wide awake is best.

 

Wake up and make love with me

Wake up and make love

Wake up and make love with me

I don't want to make you

I'll let the fancy take you

And you'll wake up and make love 

 

Tuesday 24th  January 1978

7:50 AM

James woke them on Tuesday morning, calling through the curtains,

“Oi, Padfoot, get up! Nearly eight, you lazy sod.”

“I’ve got a free study day, arsehole, piss off.” Sirius groaned in reply, burying his head under his pillow.

“You’ll miss breakfast!”

“Urrgh.”

“Fine, starve then.” James replied. Then, “Seen Moony? His bed’s empty - don’t think he should be off on his own, do you?”

 

 

“Err…” Sirius lifted the pillow from his face, and looked at Remus, raising an eyebrow in question.
“呃……”Sirius 拿起枕頭，抬頭看著 Remus，抬起一眉，表示疑問。

Remus stared back in panic. Ok, James knew but so far they’d managed to avoid his having any actual encounters with their relationship. Remus was very particular about it; he didn’t want to be gawked at. He wanted to prove that everything was just the same as before, and that meant that what happened between him and Sirius in private ought to be kept… well, private. He’d been fastidious about bed sharing, making sure to get up early and creep back to his own bed, or else rumple his bedsheets and head straight for the shower. But it was the full moon, and he was slower than usual.
Remus 驚慌地回望過去。好吧，James 知道，但到目前為止，他們已經成功避免讓他真正遇見他們的關係。Remus 對此非常講究；他不想被人盯著看。他想證明一切都和以前一樣，這意味著他和 Sirius 在私下裡發生的事應該保持……嗯，私密。他對共用床鋪非常講究，確保早早起床，悄悄回到自己的床上，或者弄亂床單直接去洗澡。但今晚是滿月，他比平常慢了一些。

“Probably gone for breakfast, mate.” Sirius called back. He shrugged at Remus.
“可能去吃早餐了，夥計。”Sirius 回應道。他對 Remus 聳了聳肩。

“Yeah maybe…” James agreed, “...Oh, hang on, I’ll check the map, he's left it on his bedside table!”
“是啊，也許……”James 同意道，“……哦，等一下，我去看看地圖，他把它放在床頭櫃上了！”

Remus slapped his head, astounded by his own stupidity.
Remus 拍了拍自己的頭，對自己的愚蠢感到驚訝。

“I’m in here, James!” He shouted, quickly, feeling himself turn red with embarrassment.
“我在這裡，James！”他快速喊道，感到自己因為尷尬而臉紅。

“Oh!” They heard James stop still, just outside the bed curtains, “Oh… er, right, of course! Sorry, I… er… didn’t think…” His steps receded quickly, towards the door, “Sorry lads… er… see you later, eh?” The door slammed shut.
“哦！”他們聽到 James 在床簾外面停住了，“哦……呃，對，當然！對不起，我……呃……沒想到……”他的腳步迅速退回，走向門口，“對不起，夥計們……呃……回頭見，啊？”門啪的一聲關上了。

Sirius snorted with laughter as Remus crawled under the sheets as if he could escape the embarrassment there.
Sirius 嘲笑著，當 Remus 爬進被子下，似乎他可以在那裡逃避尷尬。

“Oh, come on,” Sirius laughed, trying to pull the sheets back, “It wasn’t that bad…”
“哦，來吧，”Sirius 笑著說，試圖拉回床單，“沒那麼糟糕……”

“It’s horrible.” Remus replied, burying himself further, “I’ll never be able to look him in the eye again!”
“這太糟糕了。”Remus 回答道，進一步埋進被子裡，“我再也無法直視他的眼睛了！”

Sirius crawled under the sheets too, chasing him.
Sirius 也爬進了被子下，追著他。

“It’s not like we were doing anything - you’ve still got your pyjamas on!”
“我們又不是在做什麼——你還穿著睡衣呢！”

“Prongs doesn’t know that!” Remus retorted, sitting cross legged, facing Sirius. It was like they were under their own little tent now, and reminded Remus of camping. That was such a nice memory that he felt a bit calmer. Even better; Sirius always held his hand when they were hidden away like this, and he reached out now, playing with Remus’s long, scarred fingers as though they were precious treasure.
“Prongs 不知道這點！”Remus 辯解道，盤腿坐著，面對 Sirius。現在就像他們在自己的小帳篷裡，讓 Remus 想起了露營。這是一個如此美好的回憶，讓他感到有些平靜。更好的是；Sirius 總是在這樣隱藏時牽著他的手，他現在伸出手來，玩弄著 Remus 那些長而滿佈傷疤的手指，就像它們是珍貴的寶藏。

“I don’t see what the fuss is about,” Sirius mused, lacing his soft white fingers between Remus’s, then splaying them out, then wiggling them, like a children’s game. “I’m sure he already assumes… some things.”
“我不明白有什麼大驚小怪的，”Sirius 反思道，將柔軟的白皙手指和 Remus 的手指交織在一起，然後展開，再搖動，就像兒童遊戲。“我相信他已經猜到……一些事情。”

“See! You can’t say it either!”
“看！你也不能說出來！”

“Well. I’m a gentleman.” Sirius smirked, looking up at him now. Even in the dark, Remus could feel Sirius’s eyes burning. He was biting his lip, too. Remus gave a little sigh, and Sirius quirked an eyebrow. “At least we know we’ve got the room to ourselves…” he placed a hand on each of Remus’s knees and leaned in.
“嗯，我是紳士。”Sirius 露出一絲微笑，現在抬頭看著他。即使在黑暗中，Remus 也能感受到 Sirius 的目光炙熱。他也在咬著嘴唇。Remus 嘆了口氣，Sirius 挑了挑眉。“至少我們知道我們有自己的房間……”他將一隻手放在 Remus 的雙膝上，向前傾身。

Remus kissed him, but pushed him away,
Remus 吻了他，但推開了他，

“No way, if we don’t go down there right now, James is definitely going to think we’re…”
“不行，如果我們現在不下去，James 絕對會認為我們……”

“Shagging?”
“做愛？”

“...being physically intimate.” Remus said, piously.
“……在親密接觸。”Remus 說道，嚴肅地。

Sirius burst out laughing again, and rolled back on the bed.
Sirius 再次爆笑，並在床上翻了個身。

“Oh Moony! You kill me. What happened to that rough little yob I used to know?”
“哦 Moony！你真是讓我笑死了。我曾經認識的那個粗魯的小混混怎麼了？”

“Some posh boy taught him to read.” Remus replied, dryly, flinging back the covers and rubbing the static out of his curls. “Right. Quick shower, then we’ll go down.” He jumped out of bed, wincing a bit at the bright sunlight filling the dorm room.
“一個上流社會的孩子教會了他閱讀。”Remus 干巴巴地回答道，撩起被子，擦去他頭髮上的靜電。“對了。快速洗個澡，然後我們下去。”他跳下床，對房間裡充滿明亮陽光的情況感到有些皺眉。

“I like the sound of that!” Sirius called from the bed as Remus crossed the floor. In the bathroom doorway he turned and gave Sirius his most withering look.
“我喜歡這樣的安排！”Sirius 從床上喊道，當 Remus 越過地板時。在浴室門口，他轉過身，給了 Sirius 最不屑的一瞥。

“Downstairs. Pervert.”
“樓下。變態。”

8:30 AM

James couldn’t quite look at either of them in the eye, as it happened - much to Sirius’s amusement. Peter had his head down too, quietly shovelling porridge into his mouth, and for a horrifying moment Remus wondered whether he had told James exactly what he had seen in their bedroom, only a few short days ago. That would be too much to come back from, Remus was sure.
8:30 AM

James 確實無法直視他們兩個，這讓 Sirius 感到非常好笑。Peter 也低著頭，安靜地把燕麥粥送進嘴裡。Remus 在一瞬間驚恐地想，是否 Peter 已經告訴 James 他幾天前在他們的臥室裡看到的情況。Remus 確信那樣的事情太難以恢復了。

He distracted himself by listening to Mary talk, which was always easy to do. She was going out with a boy on the Hufflepuff quidditch team these days, and was simultaneously extolling his virtues and bemoaning the pitfalls of seeing an athlete. Remus couldn’t help but think that Mary was preaching to the choir a bit, as of course Lily (and, if Sirius was to be believed) Marlene were both going out with quidditch players too.
他通過聽 Mary 講話來分散注意力，這總是很容易做到的。她現在和 Hufflepuff 飛天掃帚隊的一個男孩約會，並且同時讚揚他的優點，並抱怨見一位運動員的缺陷。Remus 不禁覺得 Mary 有點自說自話，因為 Lily（如果 Sirius 說的話）和 Marlene 也都在和飛天掃帚選手約會。

“I mean, obviously he’s fit. Like… Adonis level.” She gushed, dreamily, “And talk about stamina …”
“我的意思是，他明顯很合適。就像……阿多尼斯等級的。”她夢想地讚美道，“而且談談耐力……”

Marlene was rolling her eyes, and James was staring fixedly at his cup of tea while Lily giggled behind her hands. Mary was gloriously oblivious, in her element. “But then he has the gall to whine about thigh chafing from his bloody broom!” She cackled.
Marlene 翻了翻眼睛，而 James 固定地盯著他的茶杯，Lily 在她的手後面咯咯笑。Mary 完全無知，沉浸在她的世界裡。“但他居然有膽量抱怨他那該死的掃帚讓大腿磨破！”她咯咯笑著說。

James’s ears had turned bright red, and Sirius was trying to catch his eye, a manic grin on his face.
James 的耳朵紅得發亮，而 Sirius 正試圖和他對視，臉上帶著瘋狂的笑容。

Mary carried on; “I told him if he thinks that’s uncomfortable, he should try bleeding from his snatch five days a month.”
Mary 繼續說道：“我告訴他，如果他覺得這樣不舒服，那他應該試試每個月流血五天。”

Peter practically choked on his porridge, Lily covered her face, and Marlene slammed her hand on the table,
Peter 幾乎被他的燕麥粥噎住了，Lily 遮住了她的臉，Marlene 重重地拍了拍桌子，

“Fucking hell, Mary! Do you have to?!”
“該死，Mary！你非得這樣嗎？！”

“What?” Mary sat up, blinking, looking as though butter wouldn’t melt on her wicked tongue.
“什麼？”Mary 坐起來，眨了眨眼睛，看起來她那邪惡的舌頭上不會融化黃油。

“Well. You’re being a bit graphic, for the breakfast table…” Lily said, diplomatically.
“嗯，你在早餐桌上有點過於露骨了……”Lily 政治地說。

“We’re all adults, aren’t we?” Mary arched an eyebrow, “We’re mature enough to talk about sex.”
“我們都是成年人，不是嗎？”Mary 挑了挑眉，“我們成熟到可以談論性。”

“Right, I’d better be off!” James leapt to his feet, uncharacteristically clumsy, rattling the table as he did so. Lily looked up at him, surprised,
“對了，我最好走了！”James 一躍而起，不尋常地笨拙，邊起身邊搖晃桌子。Lily 驚訝地抬頭看著他，

“Where are you going?”
“你要去哪裡？”

“Potions!”
“魔藥！”

“It’s not for another fifteen… Ok, wait, I’ll come with you.” She got up, still giving her boyfriend a strange look, and they left together.
“還有十五分鐘……好吧，等一下，我跟你一起去。”她站起來，仍然用奇怪的目光看著她的男朋友，然後他們一起離開了。

“Didn’t know James was such a prude.” Mary commented.
“沒想到 James 這麼保守。”Mary 評論道。

“Oh, it wasn’t you, MacDonald.” Sirius explained, stretching his arms over his head and touseling his long hair, “Prongsie-boy just had a bit of a surprise this morning -- ow!”
“哦，這不是你的問題，MacDonald。”Sirius 解釋道，伸展著他的雙臂，揉亂了他長長的頭髮，“Prongsie-boy 只是今天早上有點驚訝——噢！”

Remus had kicked him sharply under the table. Marlene watched them both, sipping her tea with a knowing look. Fortunately, at that moment, the post owls swooped into the Great Hall, and a large barn owl dropped two letters in front of Remus’s plate. He snatched them both up, eagerly.
Remus 在桌子下猛踢了他一腳。Marlene 看著他們兩個，嘴角帶著了然的表情品茶。幸運的是，此時，郵件貓頭鷹飛進了大廳，一隻大型的倉庫貓頭鷹在 Remus 的盤子前掉下了兩封信。他急切地拿起它們。

One was a postcard from Grant - forwarded on via the Potters’ - with a lewd cartoon on the front, depicting a man on the seashore holding an enormous red stick of Brighton rock against his crotch. The back just read ‘Saw this and thought of you. Looking at flats next week! Love.’
其中一封是一張來自 Grant 的明信片——通過 Potters 轉寄的——正面有一張猥褻的漫畫，描繪了一個在海邊的男人把一根巨大的紅色 Brighton rock 硬糖棍子抵在他的小腹上。背面只寫了‘看到這個想到了你。下週看房子！愛你。’

Remus grinned at this, and handed it to Sirius, who scowled comically. The second letter was from Professor Ferox, with a list of book recommendations Remus had requested on the history of the magical creatures classification system. They’d been writing back and forth since Christmas; it seemed Ferox was bored with his recuperation, finding himself at a loose end.
Remus 看到這個笑了笑，將它遞給 Sirius，Sirius 則做了一個滑稽的皺眉表情。第二封信來自 Ferox 教授，附有 Remus 要求的有關魔法生物分類系統歷史的書籍推薦清單。他們自聖誕節以來一直往來書信；看來 Ferox 對康復感到厭倦，發現自己無所事事。

Sirius watched Remus finish reading the letter.
Sirius 看著 Remus 閱讀完信。

“Anything from…?” He asked, giving a significant look. Remus shook his head. Nothing from his mother. Sirius tried to flash him a cheering smile, “Still time, eh?”
“有什麼……？”他問道，給了他一個意味深長的眼神。Remus 搖搖頭。沒有來自他母親的信。Sirius 試圖給他一個鼓勵的微笑，“還有時間，對吧？”

Remus just shrugged.
Remus 只是聳了聳肩。

“Going to the library, see if I can find any of these before History of Magic.” He held up Ferox’s list. “See you later, girls.” He nodded at Mary and Marlene.
“我要去圖書館，看看能否在《魔法史》課之前找到這些書。”他舉起 Ferox 的清單。“回頭見，女孩們。”他向 Mary 和 Marlene 點了點頭。

“See you in the hospital wing, this evening?” Marlene asked, hopefully.
“今晚在醫療翼見？”Marlene 充滿希望地問。

Ah, Remus remembered, it was Tuesday. He hadn’t been attending the healing lessons Madam Pomfrey had kindly included him in for some weeks now - too busy memorising curses. He didn’t really want to go this evening, it being a full moon, but he looked at Marlene and felt guilty.
啊，Remus 想起來了，今天是星期二。他已經有幾週沒有參加 Madam Pomfrey 慷慨地安排給他的治療課程了——太忙於記憶詛咒。他真的不想今晚去，因為今晚是滿月，但他看著 Marlene，感到內疚。

“Of course!” He nodded. “See you then!”
“當然！”他點頭道。“回頭見！”

Sirius bounded happily alongside Remus as he made his way to the library, mentally working through his timetable for the day. He only had three classes, luckily, but he’d promised to catch up with Christopher at some point, and he wanted to write back to both Grant and Ferox, and he had an Arithmancy essay due…
Sirius 快樂地跟在 Remus 身邊，一起前往圖書館，心裡盤算著今天的時間表。他只有三節課，幸運的是，但他承諾要找 Christopher 聊聊，還想給 Grant 和 Ferox 回信，還有一篇數術學的作文要交……

“Moooooony? Earth calling planet Moony…!” Sirius interrupted his thoughts.
“Moony？地球呼叫 Moony 星球……！”Sirius 打斷了他的思緒。

“Hm?”
“嗯？”

“We just walked past the library, if that’s where you were heading…”
“我們剛剛路過圖書館，如果那是你要去的地方……”

“Oh! Bollocks.” Remus turned 180 degrees and started back, Sirius still in tow.
“哦！該死。”Remus 轉過身來，180 度，開始回頭，Sirius 仍然跟在身後。

“Care to share?”
“願意分享一下嗎？”

“Oh, nothing. just thinking.”
“哦，沒什麼，只是在想事情。”

“Not worrying, I hope? About tonight?”
“我希望不是在擔心今晚的事？”

“Mm a bit.” They entered the library and had to be quiet as they passed Madam Pince’s desk.
“嗯，有點。”他們進入圖書館，在經過 Madam Pince 的桌子時必須保持安靜。

He’d actually been trying not to think about the coming moon - after all, Dumbledore had said not to. He’d said the Order were dealing with it, and Remus could only hope that that meant Alastor Moody was on the case, which made him feel slightly better. Still, Castor’s warning had been ringing in his ears since Saturday, and it was impossible to forget.
他實際上一直在努力不去想即將來臨的滿月——畢竟，Dumbledore 說過不必擔心。他說過密令會處理這件事，Remus 只能希望這意味著 Alastor Moody 會參與其中，這讓他感覺稍微好一些。然而，Castor 的警告自星期六以來一直在他耳邊迴響，讓他無法忘記。

“I don’t think we ought to leave the shack, tonight.” Remus whispered. “If anything happens…”
“我覺得我們今晚不應該離開小屋。”Remus 低聲說。“如果發生什麼事……”

“It won’t, Dumbledore’s dealing with it.” Sirius replied, leaning against the nearest bookcase casually, while Remus looked for the texts he wanted. Remus had to stop himself from tutting. James and Sirius put so much faith in Dumbledore, he often wondered whether he was missing something. But then, Remus trusted very few people over the age of eighteen; with good reason.
“不會的，Dumbledore 會處理的。”Sirius 回答道，隨意地靠在最近的書架上，而 Remus 在找他想要的書籍。Remus 不禁要制止自己發出嘆息聲。James 和 Sirius 對 Dumbledore 的信任太多了，他經常想自己是否錯過了什麼。但 Remus 信任的人很少，尤其是十八歲以上的人；這是有原因的。

“I know.” He said, calmly, “But I’d like you to respect my wishes, if it’s all the same to you.”
“我知道。”他平靜地說，“但如果你不介意，我希望你能尊重我的願望。”

“Hey, don’t be like that,” Sirius chided, gently, “Of course we will. Anything for our Moony.”
“嘿，別這樣，”Sirius 溫柔地責備道，“我們當然會的。為了我們的 Moony 什麼都願意。”

Remus found three of the books on Ferox’s list, which cheered him up a bit. He took then to Madam Pince, then began to tuck them into his bag.
Remus 找到了 Ferox 清單上的三本書，這讓他心情好了一點。他把書帶給 Madam Pince，然後開始把它們放進書包裡。

“I’ll take them,” Sirius offered, holding out his hands, “You don’t want to be lugging them around all day, I’m going back to the dorm anyway.”
“我來拿吧，”Sirius 提議，伸出雙手，“你不想整天背著它們，我反正要回宿舍。”

“Oh, cheers.” Remus handed them over. “Are you going to start on that Arithmancy essay?”
“哦，謝了。”Remus 把書遞給他。“你打算開始寫那篇數術學的作文嗎？”

“Not if I can possibly avoid it.” Sirius pulled a face. “See you at lunch? You’re free this afternoon, aren’t you?”
“除非我能避免，不然我不會的。”Sirius 做了個鬼臉。“午餐時見？你下午有空吧？”

“Er… yeah, but I’m supposed to be seeing Christopher… then there’s that essay you’re not doing, and healing class. And I really want to write back to Ferox today, if I can, I think he likes getting the post, since he’s not allowed out much.”
“嗯……是的，但我應該去見 Christopher……然後還有你不做的那篇作文和治療課。而且我真的想今天給 Ferox 回信，如果可以的話，我覺得他喜歡收到郵件，因為他不常出門。”

“Merlin, Remus,” Sirius was shaking his head, “You’ve got to be at the Shack by six!”
“梅林啊，Remus，”Sirius 搖了搖頭，“你得在六點前到小屋！”

“I’m aware,” Remus replied, offhandedly, adjusting his book bag. It could really do with another mending spell; unless you held it just right the seams started splitting.
“我知道，”Remus 隨意地回答道，調整著書包。書包真的需要再做一個修補咒；除非你把它拿得正確，否則接縫會開始裂開。

“And are you planning to eat?!” Sirius continued.
“那你打算吃飯嗎？！”Sirius 繼續問道。

“When have I ever forgotten a meal?” Remus poked his tongue out. “Anyway, I have to run - History. See you at lunch!”
“我什麼時候忘記過吃飯？”Remus 吐了吐舌頭。“不管怎樣，我得去上課了——歷史。午餐時見！”

1:50 PM

In spite of his promises, Remus was extremely late for lunch, and had missed everyone except Sirius, who had waited back.
儘管他做出了保證，Remus 還是非常晚到午餐，錯過了除了 Sirius 以外的所有人，Sirius 等他留下來了。

“Sorry!” Remus gasped as he reached the table, a little breathless from running. He sat down, “Stayed back to talk to Kettleburn, then remembered I’d forgotten my notes in Professor Binns’ room. History was a bloody waste, too, all stuff I’ve covered in the reading--oh, thank you!”
“對不起！”Remus 一邊喘著氣，一邊跑到桌邊坐下，“留在後面和 Kettleburn 談話，然後才想起來我把筆記忘在 Binns 教授的房間了。歷史課也浪費了，都是我在閱讀中已經學過的內容——哦，謝謝你！”

Sirius had pushed a plate of sausage and mash across the table to him. Remus dug in, eating and talking as quickly as he could - they only had ten minutes before lunch was over and the school choir would want the Hall for their weekly practice sessions. “Anyway, it worked out nicely in the end, I used the time to write my letter to Ferox and a note for Grant, so at least that’s done -- what’s that?”
Sirius 把一盤香腸和土豆泥推到桌子那邊。Remus 開始吃，盡快吃完並說話——他們只有十分鐘，然後午餐就結束了，學校合唱團要使用餐廳進行每週的練習。“不過，最後還算順利，我用時間寫了給 Ferox 的信和 Grant 的便條，至少這些都完成了——那是什麼？”

Sirius had slid a stack of parchment across the table now. Remus drained his glass of pumpkin juice and looked down at it. “Arithmancy?”
Sirius 現在把一疊羊皮紙滑到桌子上。Remus 喝光了南瓜汁，低頭看著它。“數術學？”

“Your essay,” Sirius said, casually, “Finished mine, like a good boy, so I thought I’d do yours too.”
“你的作文，”Sirius 隨意地說，“我把自己的寫完了，像個好孩子一樣，所以我想我也幫你做了。”

“You what?” Remus did a double take. Sirius was ridiculously good with a quill, and had mimicked his own spidery handwriting perfectly. “I don’t believe you!”
“你什麼？”Remus 驚訝地看了兩眼。Sirius 實在太擅長使用羽毛筆了，還完美地模仿了他的蜘蛛般的筆跡。“我不相信！”

“How many times have you done it for Wormy? Or James, for that matter - he’s still got a stick up his arse about this morning, by the way, won’t talk to me about it - anyway, now that’s done, and the letters, you’re free for the afternoon!”
“你幫 Wormy 做過多少次？或者 James，說實話，他對今早的事還有點介意，順便說一下，他不願意和我談論這個——總之，這些都完成了，信件也處理好了，你下午就空閒了！”

“Thanks so much, Padfoot, honestly, this is brilliant… but I did promise to see Christopher, and--”
“真的非常感謝你，Padfoot，說實話，這太棒了……但我確實承諾了要見 Christopher，還有——”

“Nope.” Sirius was grinning like the cat who’d got the cream. “Just saw him. Told him you weren’t well, so you couldn’t see him.”
“不行。”Sirius 像偷到奶油的貓一樣露出了笑容。“剛才見過他了。我告訴他你身體不舒服，所以你不能見他。”

“Sirius!”
“Sirius！”

“Well you’re not well.” Sirius responded, innocently. “What with tonight, you ought to be resting.”
“你不舒服。”Sirius 無辜地回答。“考慮到今晚的事，你應該休息。”

“I’ll be fine once I’ve eaten.” Remus replied shortly, eyes on his food, mopping up the last of the gravy with his mashed potato. He’d lick the plate if he was shameless enough; full moons made him ravenous. When he’d finished, he looked up and found Sirius staring at him, big eyes full of puppy-ish remorse.
“吃完我會好的。”Remus 簡短地回答，眼睛盯著他的食物，用土豆泥擦拭盤子上的最後一點肉汁。如果他夠無恥，他會舔盤子的；滿月使他感到飢餓。當他吃完後，他抬起頭發現 Sirius 盯著他，眼中充滿了小狗般的悔意。

“Angry with me?”
“生我的氣嗎？”

“No.” Remus wiped his mouth with his sleeve and pushed his plate away in time for it to vanish back down to the kitchens. “But you can’t re-organise my life like that just to get your own way...”
“沒有。”Remus 用袖子擦了擦嘴，把盤子推開，正好讓它消失回到廚房。“但你不能只是為了達到自己的目的而重新安排我的生活……”

“I didn’t mean it like that!” Sirius sat up, looking shocked, “I just… you always have so much on, and it’s insane. I mean, it’s amazing, because you’re amazing, and you can handle it, but you don’t have to.”
“我不是這個意思！”Sirius 坐起來，看起來很震驚，“我只是……你總是有這麼多事要做，這簡直瘋狂。我的意思是，這很了不起，因為你很了不起，你能處理得了，但你不必如此。”

“Ok…” Remus frowned, getting up. He wasn’t sure exactly what Sirius was saying. He had always tried to keep busy. He liked being busy, and useful to people.
“好……”Remus 皺了皺眉，站了起來。他不確定 Sirius 到底在說什麼。他一直嘗試保持忙碌。他喜歡忙碌，並對他人有用。

“And you’d written so many notes for that essay it practically wrote itself.” Sirius continued, as they left the Great Hall and began to head for Gryffindor tower. “And we can go and find Christopher if you want, he’s probably in the library…”
“而且你為那篇作文寫了那麼多筆記，幾乎自己就寫完了。”Sirius 繼續說道，他們離開了大禮堂，開始向 Gryffindor 塔前進。“如果你願意，我們可以去找 Christopher，他可能在圖書館……”

“Sirius…” Remus sighed, fondly.
“Sirius……”Remus 親切地嘆了口氣。

“Go on, I’ll post the letters for you, and I’ll see you for early dinner -”
“繼續吧，我會幫你寄信，然後見面吃早晚餐——”

“Sirius...” He checked the coast was clear - everyone was in lessons, and Peeves wasn’t about. An empty corridor was a rare thing at Hogwarts.
“Sirius……”他查看了一下情況是否安全——每個人都在上課，Peeves 不在附近。霍格華茲裡空蕩蕩的走廊是稀有的景象。

“Oh bugger!” Sirius slapped his forehead, “I can’t do early dinner, I’ve got that detention with Filch. Only for an hour though, I’ll be out in time for--”
“哦，該死！”Sirius 拍了拍額頭，“我不能吃早晚餐，我有那個與 Filch 的留堂。只是一個小時而已，我會及時出來——”

“Sirius!”
“Sirius！”

“What?!” He finally stopped talking in time for Remus to catch him unawares with a quick kiss on the lips.
“什麼？！”他終於停下了話語，正好讓 Remus 用一個快速的吻讓他感到驚訝。

“Shut up, you idiot.” He smiled, “I’d much rather spend the afternoon with you than studying with Christopher.”
“閉嘴，你這個傻瓜。”他微笑道，“我更願意和你一起度過下午，而不是和 Christopher 一起學習。”

“Oh.” Sirius blushed, looking very pleased.
“哦。”Sirius 臉紅了，看起來非常高興。

2:15 PM

Less than twenty minutes later, and Remus was completely blissed out, lying on his back with the record player at his feet and Sirius’s head resting against his good hip. Bowie was singing and strumming his eight string, and the two boys listening were sharing a spliff Sirius had charmed off a Ravenclaw earlier that week.
不到二十分鐘後，Remus 完全陶醉地躺在床上，腳邊是唱片機，Sirius 的頭靠在他的好髋上。Bowie 正在彈奏他的八弦吉他，兩個男孩正在分享一根 Sirius 這周早些時候從 Ravenclaw 那裡偷來的煙卷。

“Does the wolf get stoned too?” Sirius asked, reaching up for his turn. Remus shook his head, inhaling deeply and passing the joint.
“狼也會被嗨到嗎？”Sirius 問道，伸手拿到他的煙卷。Remus 搖了搖頭，深深地吸了一口，然後把煙卷遞給他。

“Hungrier, probably.” He replied, voice high.
“可能會更餓。”他回答，聲音有些尖。

“Hmm.” Sirius murmured.
“嗯。”Sirius 低聲說道。

Remus exhaled and closed his eyes, settling back on the pile of cushions. It was like sinking into warm treacle. He let his thoughts drift.
Remus 吐了口氣，閉上眼睛，靠在一堆墊子上。這就像沉入溫暖的糖漿中。他讓自己的思緒漂浮。

“Can I ask you something?” He mumbled,
“我能問你點事嗎？”他喃喃自語。

“Fire away, Moony.”
“隨便問，Moony。”

“What was Mary on about, this morning?”
“Mary 今早在說什麼？”

“About the Hufflepuff keeper’s stamina? I think she was blagging, to be honest with you.”
“關於 Hufflepuff 守門員的耐力？說實話，我覺得她在吹牛。”

“Not that,” Remus chuckled, “The bleeding thing… bleeding from her… um… What did she mean?”
“不是那個，”Remus 笑了笑，“那個流血的事……她的流血……嗯……她的意思是什麼？”

Sirius swivelled his head in Remus’s lap to look up at him, wearing a bemused frown.
Sirius 把頭轉到 Remus 的膝蓋上看著他，臉上帶著困惑的皺眉。

“She was talking about… you know, her ‘time of the month’…” He raised his eyebrows, as if Remus was supposed to catch on somehow.
“她在說……你知道的，她的‘月經期’……”他抬起眉毛，好像 Remus 應該知道一樣。

“What’s that?” Remus frowned back, none the wiser.
“那是什麼？”Remus 皺了皺眉，不明白。

“Re mus… seriously?!”
“Remus……真的嗎？！”

“What??”
“什麼？”

“You know! Girls are different from boys…”
“你知道的！女孩和男孩不一樣……”

“Well I know that.” Remus bristled, feeling defensive now.
“我知道這一點。”Remus 生氣地回答，感到有些防禦。

“Ok, so girls get this thing every month…” Sirius began to explain. Remus was utterly horrified, by the time he’d finished.
“好吧，女孩每個月都有這個……”，Sirius 開始解釋。Remus 在他解釋完後完全感到震驚。

“That’s the most disgusting thing I’ve ever heard.” He said, flatly.
“那是我聽過的最噁心的事情。”他平淡地說。

“It’s natural.” Sirius shrugged, “I’ll get Lily to explain it to you, I probably told it wrong. Bloody hell, you’re nearly eighteen, how did you not know?!”
“這是自然的。”Sirius 聳了聳肩，“我會讓 Lily 解釋給你聽，我可能講錯了。天啊，你快十八歲了，怎麼會不知道？！”

“Oh yeah, make fun of the Care Home kid.” Remus tutted, “I grew up in a boys’ reformatory! How am I supposed to know anything about girls?!”
“哦，是的，嘲笑那個孤兒院的孩子。”Remus 嘖了一聲，“我在男子教養院長大！我怎麼會知道任何關於女孩的事？！”

“Explains a lot.” Sirius said, dryly. Remus flicked his ear, sharply. “Ow!”
“說明了很多。”Sirius 乾燥地說。Remus 俏皮地彈了彈他的耳朵。“哎呀！”

“What’s your detention for, anyway?” Remus asked, settling back again.
“你留堂是因為什麼？”Remus 問道，重新躺好。

“Hexed Crouch.”
“下了詛咒的 Crouch。”

“Oh right.”
“哦，對了。”

“Him and my darling brother were tormenting some second years - but obviously he got out of it because he’s a prefect.” Sirius muttered, darkly.
“他和我那可愛的哥哥折磨一些二年級學生——但顯然他逃過了，因為他是級長。”Sirius 黯淡地嘀咕道。

He never said Regulus’s name any more, just ‘my darling brother’, in that cruel, overly plummy accent, which Remus thought was probably to make fun of Regulus’s posh-ness. Except (and Remus would never say this out loud) for the first few years Remus had known Sirius, he’d had exactly the same clipped received enunciation.
他再也不說 Regulus 的名字，只用‘我那可愛的哥哥’，用那種殘酷而過於上流的口音，Remus 認為這可能是在嘲笑 Regulus 的上流氣質。除了（而 Remus 永遠不會大聲說出來）Remus 認識 Sirius 的頭幾年，他也有完全一樣的生硬語調。

“Ought to try and ignore them, if you can.” Remus advised. “I know he bothers you, but it’s better to just stay out of his way. School’s over, soon.”
“如果可以的話，應該試著忽略他們。”Remus 建議道。“我知道他打擾你，但最好還是避開他。學校很快就結束了。”

“I know.” Sirius said, hogging the spliff.
“我知道。”Sirius 說，霸佔著煙卷。

Remus reached for it, snatching his wrist. God, he loved Sirius’s wrists. The bones were so fine, the veins like blue ribbon under translucent skin. His own fingers wrapped all the way around easily. He held it now, and pulled Sirius’s hand to his mouth, sucking the end of the joint, then letting him go.
Remus 伸手去拿它，抓住了他的手腕。天啊，他愛 Sirius 的手腕。骨頭如此纖細，靜脈在半透明的皮膚下像藍絲帶。他的手指輕鬆地包圍了它。他現在握著它，把 Sirius 的手拉到嘴邊，吸了一口煙，然後放開他。

Sirius just smirked up at him. The record stopped, and he had to get up to flip it to the b-side.
Sirius 只是對他咧嘴一笑。唱片停止了，他得起身把唱片翻到另一面。

“I s’pose I just don’t want him to hurt anyone.” He sighed, settling back down.
“我想我只是希望他不要傷害任何人。”他嘆了口氣，重新躺下。

“That’s not your job.” Remus frowned.
“那不是你的工作。”Remus 皺了皺眉。

“Feels like it.” Sirius muttered, stretching. “You don’t know what he was like when we were kids. He wasn’t… he’s not… I dunno. I just don’t want him to do something he’ll regret, later on.”
“感覺就是這樣。”Sirius 嘀咕道，伸展身體。“你不知道他小時候是什麼樣的。他當時不是……他現在不是……我不知道。我只是不想他做出他以後會後悔的事。”

Remus thought very hard - which was no mean feat, after a few lung fulls of Ravenclaw-grown hash.
Remus 仔細思考——這可不容易，在吸過幾口 Ravenclaw 出產的哈希後。

“Tell you something?” He asked.
“告訴你一件事？”他問道。

“A secret?” Sirius replied, eagerly, getting up to sit beside him.
“秘密？”Sirius 熱切地回答，起身坐到他旁邊。

“Er… sort of? But it’s about Regulus. You might not want to hear it.”
“呃……算是吧？但這是關於 Regulus 的。你可能不想聽。”

Sirius went a bit quiet; a bit more rigid, but he nodded,
Sirius 有點靜默了；有點僵硬，但他點了點頭，

“Go on.”
“說吧。”

“Remember the boggart that got me and Chris, before Christmas?”
“記得聖誕節前那隻嚇到我和 Chris 的 Boggart 嗎？”

“How could I forget?” Sirius replied, a note of jealousy in his voice, “Wish I’d been there, never seen a boggart.”
“我怎麼會忘？”，Sirius 回答，語氣中帶有一絲嫉妒，“希望我當時也在，從未見過 Boggart。”

“Werewolves not exciting enough for you now?” Remus raised his eyebrows. “Anyway, er… I checked the map, right after Chris went to get someone, and… well I’m pretty sure it was Regulus who put the boggart there. He and Barty were nearby.”
“狼人現在對你不夠刺激了嗎？”Remus 揚起眉毛。“無論如何，呃……Chris 去找人後，我檢查了地圖，嗯，我很確定是 Regulus 放了那隻 Boggart。他和 Barty 在附近。”

Remus craned his neck slightly, so he could see Sirius’s face, and how he was taking the news. His mouth was a straight line. He looked more tired than angry. He shook his head.
Remus 稍微伸長脖子，好讓他能看到 Sirius 的臉，以及他對這個消息的反應。他的嘴巴是一條直線。他看起來更疲倦而非憤怒。他搖了搖頭。

“Stupid prick.” He muttered. “It’s all her, you know. He’s an idiot for wanting to please her, obviously, but it’s all her fault, anyway.”
“愚蠢的傻瓜。”他嘀咕道。“都是她的錯，你知道的。他想取悅她顯然是個傻瓜，但不管怎樣，都是她的錯。”

“Your mother?”
“你說的是你母親？”

Sirius nodded. Remus didn’t know what to say. They had agreed, long ago - they could talk about anything but mothers. And that’s the way it had been, on Sirius’s side, anyway. Remus didn’t want to go into it now, either. Everything was so nice, and warm, and if they could just hang onto it a bit longer, then this would be such a good memory, something he would have inside him forever.
Sirius 點了點頭。Remus 不知道該說什麼。他們很久以前就達成過協議——他們可以談論任何事，但不要談論母親。這在 Sirius 那邊一直是這樣。Remus 現在也不想深入討論。所有的一切都如此美好和溫暖，如果他們能再保持一會兒，那麼這將是一個美好的回憶，是他永遠會珍藏在心中的東西。

He reached over and stroked Sirius’s cheek, that perfect, perfect jawline. He sat up, and shifted around to face him.
他伸手撫摸 Sirius 的臉頰，那完美的下巴輪廓。他坐起來，轉身面對他。

“Let’s forget about all that shit.” He said, “It’s boring.”
“我們就忘掉那些爛事吧。”他說，“那很無聊。”

Sirius kissed him.
Sirius 吻了他。

 

4:00PM

Remus walked down alone for dinner at four, as Sirius left for his detention. It was so early that Remus was the only one there, except for Marlene, who was also attending Madam Pomfrey’s healing class.
Remus 獨自下樓去四點的晚餐，因為 Sirius 去了留堂。那麼早，除了 Marlene，也在參加 Madam Pomfrey 的療癒課程，Remus 是唯一的人。

“I’m glad you’re coming,” she beamed at him. Marlene smiled a lot these days. “I haven’t seen you properly since Christmas!”
“我很高興你來了，”她對他笑著。Marlene 最近經常微笑。“自從聖誕節以來我還沒好好見過你呢！”

“Yeah, sorry!” Remus replied, beginning his second helping of lasagne, twice as big as the first, “Been so busy with NEWTs stuff…”
“是啊，對不起！”Remus 回答道，開始吃第二份比第一份大的千層麵，“最近忙得要命，都是關於 NEWTs 的事……”

“I really wanted to talk to you about what happened on the train…”
“我真的想跟你聊聊火車上的事……”

“Oh! … er…” Remus stared at her, fork halfway to his mouth. With all of the fuss about Castor and the full moon, Remus had been able to avoid talking about their strange meeting with Yasmin and Marlene on the train. He felt guilty again. Obviously Marlene had been thinking about it a lot.
“哦！……呃……”Remus 盯著她，叉子還在嘴邊。由於 Castor 和滿月的混亂，Remus 已經避免談論他們在火車上和 Yasmin 及 Marlene 的奇怪遇見。他再次感到內疚。顯然 Marlene 一直在想這件事。

“Hang on,” Marlene was saying, reaching for her wand, “ Muffliato !” She murmured.
“等一下，”Marlene 說，伸手拿出她的魔杖，“Muffliato！”她低聲念道。

The noise in the hall around them seemed to deaden, slightly.
他們周圍的走廊聲音似乎稍微變得沉寂。

“What was that?” He asked, keeping his voice low.
“那是什麼？”他問道，保持低聲。

“Stops people listening in.” Marlene explained, “Lily taught it to us. Mary uses it to gossip all the time in Charms.”
“阻止別人偷聽。”Marlene 解釋道，“Lily 教我們的。Mary 在魅力課上總是用它來八卦。”

“Wow,” Remus nodded, appreciatively.
“哇，”Remus 感激地點了點頭。

“So, anyway,” Marlene leaned forward on her elbows, eyes bright, “You and Sirius! Does anyone know?!”
“所以，”Marlene 支著胳膊，眼睛明亮地向前傾，“你和 Sirius！有人知道嗎？！”

“Oh!” Remus finally set down his knife and fork, though he could have happily kept going. “Yeah, actually. James and Peter, Lily too.”
“哦！”Remus 最終放下了刀叉，雖然他本來可以繼續吃。“嗯，實際上知道的有。James 和 Peter，還有 Lily。”

“Really?!”
“真的嗎？！”

“Yeah.” He nodded, checking that there was definitely nobody listening. “Only recently, though. What about you and Yaz?”
“是的。”他點了點頭，確認確實沒有人偷聽。“不過只有最近的事。那你和 Yaz 呢？”

“No one.” She said, firmly.
“沒有人。”她堅定地說。

“Not even Mary?”
“連 Mary 都不知道？”

“Least of all her!” Marlene said, ruefully. Remus decided not to enquire further. He’d had enough revelations concerning Mary for one day.
“最不應該是她！”Marlene 遺憾地說。Remus 決定不再詢問。他一天中已經聽到足夠關於 Mary 的揭露了。

“Has it been going on long? You two?” He asked. “I had no idea…”
“你們在一起有多久了？”他問道。“我完全不知道……”

“Sorry,” Marlene blushed, looking down, “I’ve known I was… different, I suppose, for a long time now, and I really wanted to say something to you, especially after the summer, but… I dunno, how do you bring it up?”
“對不起，”Marlene 臉紅著低頭，“我覺得自己……不同，已經有很長時間了，我真的想跟你說點什麼，尤其是夏天之後，但……我不知道，怎麼說呢？”

“Tell me about it.” Remus agreed, eagerly.
“告訴我吧。”Remus 熱切地說。

“Yaz has been my girlfriend since just before Christmas. She’s incredible.” Marlene was smiling again, and Remus could practically feel the joy radiating from her. He touched her hand, gently,
“Yaz 自聖誕節前不久就成為了我的女朋友。她真是太棒了。”Marlene 又笑了起來，Remus 幾乎能感受到她散發出的快樂。他輕輕地觸摸她的手，

“I’m really happy for you.”
“我真的為你感到高興。”

“Thanks.” She squeezed his hand back. “But what about you?! More to the point, what about Sirius ?!”
“謝謝。”她回握他的手。“但你呢？！更重要的是，Sirius 呢？！”

“What about him?”
“他怎麼了？”

“I’m just flabbergasted, really. Is he fully queer, or more AC-DC?”
“我真的很震驚。他是完全的同性戀，還是更偏向於雙性戀？”

“Um… you know, I haven’t asked. We don’t really talk about that sort of thing.”
“嗯……你知道，我沒問過。我們不太談論這種事。”

“You don’t?” She gave him an odd, sideways glance. “Doesn’t it bother you? His history with girls?”
“你不問？”她給了他一個奇怪的側目。“這不會打擾你嗎？他和女孩的歷史？”

“No.” Remus felt himself growing hot under the collar. This was exactly the sort of thing he wanted to avoid discussing. With anyone. “It’s not relevant.”
“不了。”Remus 感到脖子下方有點發熱。這正是他想要避免討論的事。對任何人。“這不重要。”

“Ok,” Marlene shrugged, though she looked unconvinced. “If it works, I suppose.”
“好吧，”Marlene 聳了聳肩，雖然她看起來不太相信。“如果有效的話，我想。”

He didn’t respond to that, and eventually the Muffliato spell wore off and they finished eating, before making their way to their healing class at 4.30.
他沒有回應這一點，最終 Muffliato 的魔咒消失了，他們吃完了，然後一起前往他們的療癒課程，四點半。

Marlene was planning to tell Mary, she said, when the time was right. Remus knew that argument well enough, and didn’t think it was really his place to offer advice. It was nice to know that someone else knew how he felt, at least - even just a little bit.
Marlene 說，她打算在合適的時候告訴 Mary。Remus 對這個說法很熟悉，並不覺得自己有資格提供建議。知道還有其他人知道他的感受，至少有點安慰。

The healing class passed very slowly. Remus found that he was still pretty stoned, plus quite full, which made him sleepy. He tried to listen to Madam Pomfrey’s lecture on circulatory diagnostic spells, but his mind kept wandering, drifting back to his bed, and Sirius. The kindly nurse assumed he was just out of it because the moon was close, and didn’t chastise him as she usually might - he ought to have felt bad about that, but he was too happy daydreaming to worry too much.
療癒課程過得非常緩慢。Remus 發現自己仍然有點嗨，加上吃得很飽，讓他感到困倦。他試著聽 Madam Pomfrey 關於循環診斷咒語的講座，但他的思緒不斷漂浮，回到他的床上和 Sirius 身邊。那位和藹的護士以為他只是因為月亮快來了才這樣，沒有像平時那樣責備他——他應該為此感到內疚，但他太開心做白日夢了，無法太過擔心。

6:30 PM

Remus hung back in the hospital wing and sat quietly in Madam Pomfrey’s office while she tidied a few things away, before the pair of them made their journey down to the Shack together. There would only be four more full moons at Hogwarts, after this one, Remus realised. He knew he would miss Poppy Pomfrey more than he could ever tell her. She would always be the first person who had ever tried to make him comfortable; the first person who ever thought they could help.
Remus 在醫療翼等了會兒，靜靜地坐在 Madam Pomfrey 的辦公室裡，她整理了一些東西，然後他們一起下到小屋。Remus 意識到，除了這次，霍格華茲只剩下四個滿月。他知道自己會非常想念 Poppy Pomfrey，超過他能告訴她的程度。她將永遠是第一個試圖讓他感到舒適的人；第一個認為自己能夠幫助他的人。

She bid him goodbye, and promised to return first thing in the morning, as always. He put on the same brave face he’d used when he was eleven, and waved to her cheerily from the bed as she closed the door. Alone, Remus stared at the floor for a bit, trying to recall his afternoon, and suppress the growing dread in the pit of his stomach. He got up and paced a bit, for something to do.
她向他道別，並承諾像往常一樣一大早就回來。他露出他十一歲時用過的勇敢面孔，當她關上門時，從床上愉快地揮手告別。獨自一人，Remus 盯著地板一會兒，試著回憶他的下午，並壓抑胃裡逐漸增長的恐懼。他起身走動了一會兒，找點事做。

In time, the door creaked open once more, and James poked his head around the corner. He glanced around the room, before entering, looking just as awkward as he had that morning.
過了一會兒，門再次發出吱吱聲，James 探出頭來。他瞥了一眼房間，然後進了來，看起來和早上一樣尷尬。

“Hiya, Moony,” he said, pushing his glasses up his nose nervously as he entered, “No Wormtail yet?”
“嗨，Moony，”他進來時緊張地推了推眼鏡，“Wormtail 還沒來嗎？”

“I think he had lines to do for McGonagall.” Remus said, sitting on the bed again.
“我想他有要給 McGonagall 寫的台詞。”Remus 說，重新坐到床上。

“Right-o.” James nodded. He stood leaning against the wall.
“好的。”James 點了點頭。他站在牆邊。

They were completely silent for a good three minutes. Remus tried not to fidget, but the quiet was pretty unbearable - he and James had never been awkward before. Even after Remus came out, he was the first to swear that nothing had changed. But of course, now something really had changed; something which had shifted and skewed the dynamic. James was generally good at rolling with the punches, but it seemed he had a real blind spot when it came to Sirius Black.
他們完全沉默了三分鐘。Remus 試著不去擺弄，但靜默非常難忍——他和 James 從未有過尷尬。即使在 Remus 出櫃之後，他也第一個發誓說一切沒有改變。但當然，現在真的改變了；一些東西改變了，扭曲了動態。James 一般很擅長應對變化，但看來他對 Sirius Black 確實有一個盲點。

“Lily wants to be an animagus, now.” James said, suddenly, clearly trying to crack the tension.
“Lily 現在想成為 Animagus。”James 突然說道，顯然試圖打破僵局。

“Of course she does,” Remus smiled fondly, “Bet she masters it in half the time you lot took.”
“當然，”Remus 懷著親切的微笑說，“我打賭她能在你們花費的一半時間內掌握。”

“You’re not wrong.” James laughed, appreciatively.
“你說得對。”James 笑著，感激地說。

But that only hit a dead end, and silence invaded the space between them once more. Remus swallowed, and watched James, who was looking at his feet. He had just made up his mind to speak - to make some joke, or ask about quidditch, when James looked up, suddenly, catching his eye.
但這僅僅是死胡同，沉默再次侵入他們之間的空間。Remus 吞了吞口水，觀察著看著自己腳的 James。他剛決定要開口——說個笑話，或問問魁地奇，當 James 突然抬頭，與他的目光相遇。

“ Look-Moony-I’m-really-sorry-about-this-morning .” He said, all in a rush, as if he’d been holding his breath. Remus blinked.
“Moony，我真的很抱歉今天早上。”他匆忙地說，就像一直憋著氣一樣。Remus 眨了眨眼。

“ You’re sorry?!
“你道歉？！”

“Yeah, I should have realised… you know, you two are. Um. Together. Going out. Whatever - I shouldn’t have been so surprised…”
“是的，我應該意識到……你們倆。嗯。一起。交往。無論如何——我不應該這麼驚訝……”

“It’s ok, Prongs.” Remus said, kindly, “ I’m sorry - we’ve been trying not to rub in in your face too much, and I swear nothing was happening this morning, I just sleep there sometimes.”
“沒關係，Prongs。”Remus 和藹地說，“對不起——我們一直在試著不讓你太尷尬，我發誓今天早上什麼也沒發生，我只是有時候會睡在那裡。”

“See, that’s what I mean; you shouldn’t have to sneak around!” James burst out, “Really, it’s not a problem! You should sleep where you want to sleep.”
“你看，我的意思是；你不應該偷偷摸摸的！”James 突然說，“真的，這沒問題！你應該在你想睡的地方睡。”

“Oh… ok, thank you.” Remus nodded.
“哦……好的，謝謝。”Remus 點了點頭。

“I don’t want things to be weird.” James said, helplessly.
“我不想事情變得尷尬。”James 無奈地說。

“Me neither!” Remus insisted. “That’s the last thing I want - Sirius too. I just wanted to keep a low profile because… well he’s your best friend, and him and me seeing each other doesn’t mean…”
“我也不想！”Remus 堅持道。“那是我最不想要的——Sirius 也是。我只是想保持低調，因為……他是你最好的朋友，他和我見面並不意味著……”

“I never thought it did!” James said, hurriedly. He had crossed the room now, his inherent good nature taking over as he sat down next to Remus on the bed, “And you’re my best friend too, Remus.”
“我從未認為會有！”James 匆忙說道。他現在已經走過了房間，他天生的好性格占了上風，坐在 Remus 床邊，“而且你也是我的最好朋友，Remus。”

Remus looked down at his hands, shyly.
Remus 羞怯地低頭看著自己的手。

“Christ, Potter,” he grinned, “Why’d you always have to be so perfect?”
“天哪，Potter，”他笑著說，“為什麼你總是那麼完美？”

“Born that way.” James shrugged, mirroring Remus’s grin. “Come here, tosser.” He pulled him in for a hug. Remus relaxed, finally. All was well.
“天生如此。”James 聳了聳肩，模仿著 Remus 的微笑。“過來，笨蛋。”他擁抱了 Remus。Remus 終於放鬆了。一切都很好。

At that moment, the door swung open once more, and Sirius sauntered into the room, closely followed by Peter.
就在這時，門再次打開，Sirius 悠閒地走進房間，身後跟著 Peter。

“Oi!” Sirius barked, pointing at James, “Hands off my man.”
“喂！”Sirius 吼道，指著 James，“別碰我的男人。”

-----

- I googled, and it looks as though 'rock' (i.e. Brighton Rock/Blackpool Rock) is perculiarly British. It's a hard candy, similar to candy cane, which you buy at the seaside.
- Snatch is a particularly crude slang word for lady-bits.
- AC-DC (Alternate current/direct current) is '70s slang for bisexuality.

 

 

Chapter 132: Seventh Year: Victims 

Howling. Whining. Scents - animals, magic, mould. He had to get out. Hunt. Pack. Pack. The big one tried to stop him. The black one tackled him. But he had to get out. He was so hungry. So hungry...
狼嚎。哀鳴。氣味——動物、魔法、霉味。他必須出去。狩獵。群體。群體。那隻大的一直試圖阻止他。那隻黑色的撞上了他。但他必須出去。他太餓了。太餓了……

“Remus?! Remus?? Wake up!”
“Remus？！Remus？？醒來！”

His eyes snapped open as Sirius shook him roughly by the shoulders.
Sirius 用力抓住他的肩膀，讓他的眼睛猛地睜開。

“Wha??”
“什麼？？？”

“Are you ok?”
“你還好嗎？”

He was lying on his back, on the dusty shack floor. He was bleeding, but he didn’t know where from. Sirius was bleeding too. Remus tried to sit up, and winced as his head rattled and his back creaked.
他躺在背上，臉朝上，躺在滿是灰塵的小屋地板上。他在流血，但不知道從哪裡來。Sirius 也在流血。Remus 試著坐起來，卻因為頭部的震動和背部的咔嚓聲而疼痛。

“What happened?” He gasped, throat raw from howling - or screaming.
“發生了什麼？”他喘息著問，喉嚨因狼嚎——或是尖叫而沙啞。

“Here,” Sirius helped him up, and over to the bed. He pulled out a goblet - Remus didn’t know where he’d got it - and whispered, “Auguamenti.” Sirius’s hands were shaking as water poured from his wand, and he handed it to Remus, who drank greedily, spilling it down his front. He knew something was wrong; he could smell the blood and the fear and the sunrise, but it was taking longer than usual for his human thoughts to come back to him; like waking up still drunk with a hangover to boot.
“在這裡，”Sirius 幫助他站起來，帶到床邊。他拿出一個高腳杯——Remus 不知道他從哪裡弄來的——輕聲說道，“Auguamenti。”Sirius 的手在搖晃，水從他的魔杖中流出，他把杯子遞給 Remus，Remus 貪婪地喝著，水灑了一身。他知道有些不對勁；他能聞到血腥氣和恐懼和日出的味道，但他的人的思維回到他身上的時間比平時更長，就像醒來時還是醉著加上宿醉一樣。

“What happened?” he asked again, frowning, “Are you hurt?”
“發生了什麼？”他再次問，皺著眉頭，“你受傷了嗎？”

“It’s fine,” Sirius shook his head. He looked very pale - not his usual aristocratic alabaster, but sickly, worried, yellowish with sweat. “You just nipped me a few times - you kept trying to get out.”
“沒事，”Sirius 搖了搖頭。他看起來非常蒼白——不是他平時那種貴族般的白皙，而是病恹恹的、擔心的，帶有汗水的黃色。“你只是咬了我幾次——你一直在試圖出去。”

“Did I--?!” Remus grabbed him, suddenly, pulling his shirt. Sirius pushed him down, gently, reaching for blankets to cover him with. He shook his head,
“我——？！”Remus 突然抓住他，拉扯著他的襯衫。Sirius 輕輕地把他推下去，拿起毯子給他蓋上。他搖了搖頭，

“No, we kept you here. You never left, I promise you.”
“不，我們一直留在這裡。你從未離開，我向你保證。”

“Where are the others?”
“其他人呢？”

“They had to go - Madam Pomfrey’ll be here soon. When you turned back it was different - harder than normal, I think. You wouldn’t wake up properly, so James left me the cloak. I didn’t want to leave you here.”
“他們得走了——Madam Pomfrey 很快就會來的。當你變回人的時候不一樣了——比平常更困難，我覺得。你無法正常醒來，所以 James 留給我了斗篷。我不想把你留在這裡。”

Remus lay back, his mind racing. He tried to remember, but it was all scrambled up. He only knew one thing for sure.
Remus 躺回去，腦海中一片混亂。他試著回憶，但一切都亂成一團。他只知道一件事。

“Something really bad happened.” He whispered. His own voice was trembling now, and cold dread settled in his stomach like a sickness. Sirius didn’t say anything. He just squeezed his hand.
“發生了真的很糟糕的事。”他低聲說道。他的聲音現在在顫抖，寒冷的恐懼像病一樣在胃裡安定下來。Sirius 沒有說話。他只是握住了他的手。

He hid under the cloak as soon as Madam Pomfrey arrived, and she hurried in, with a terrible grey look on her own face. He sat up, every muscle screaming at him,
他在 Madam Pomfrey 到達的時候立刻藏在斗篷下，她匆匆進來，臉上帶著可怕的灰色神情。他坐起來，每一塊肌肉都在尖叫，

“Poppy!” He rasped, “What happened? Please tell me!”
“Poppy！”他嘶啞地說，“發生了什麼？請告訴我！”

“How are you, first?” She asked, coming over to feel his forehead, “You’re running very high.”
“你怎麼樣，首先？”她問道，過來摸他的額頭，“你發燒很高。”

“I feel fine,” he lied, batting her hand away impatiently, “There was an attack, wasn’t there?”
“我覺得很好，”他撒謊道，不耐煩地拍開她的手，“發生了攻擊，是不是？”

She nodded, wordlessly. His heart thumped, “Who? How many?”
她無言點頭。他的心跳加速，“誰？多少人？”

“I don’t know.” She said, very quietly. He had never heard that voice come out of her before. For a moment, she wouldn’t even meet his eyes. She had always looked him in the eye.
“我不知道。”她非常輕聲說道。他從未聽到過她發出那種聲音。她有一會兒甚至不願意看他的眼睛。她總是直視著他的眼睛。

“Please.” He said again. She shook her head, very slightly.
“請。”他再次說道。她輕輕搖了搖頭。

“There’s nothing I can tell you. It’ll be in the morning news.”
“我不能告訴你什麼。這會在早晨的新聞中報導。”

“I have to see Dumbledore!”
“我得去見 Dumbledore！”

“He’s not here.” She stood up, “Now, can you walk? Professor McGonagall says you’re to go to your lessons as usual, if you’re fit enough? We don’t want anyone asking where you are. I’ll give you something for the pain.”
“他不在這裡。”她站起來說，“現在，你能走嗎？Professor McGonagall 說如果你能夠適應的話，應該照常去上課。我們不想讓任何人問你在哪裡。我會給你一些止痛藥。”

They walked through the tunnel in silence, with Sirius behind them, still invisible. Madam Pomfrey dealt with the worst of his scratches - mostly from Padfoot, though fortunately she assumed he’d done them to himself - and told him to carry on about his day. He took the potion she gave him, but his head still throbbed and his body ached. As soon as she had turned a corner, Sirius revealed himself, and slid an arm around Remus’s back.
他們靜靜地穿過隧道，Sirius 在他們身後，仍然隱形。Madam Pomfrey 處理了他最糟糕的刮痕——主要來自 Padfoot，幸好她以為這些傷是他自己造成的——並告訴他繼續過他的日子。他喝下她給他的藥水，但頭部仍然劇烈疼痛，身體也在疼痛。她一轉角，Sirius 就顯形，將手臂搭在 Remus 的背上。

“Why are you pretending you’re ok?” He hissed, supporting Remus up the stairs back to their dorm, “You can barely walk!”
“你為什麼假裝你沒事？”他咝咝地說，扶著 Remus 上樓回到宿舍，“你幾乎走不動！”

“I’ll be fine in a minute.” Remus replied, gritting his teeth, “She’s got enough to worry about. Ugh, fucking stairs.”
“我馬上就會好的。”Remus 回答道，咬牙切齒，“她有足夠的事要擔心。唉，該死的樓梯。”

“James said he’d send an owl to his dad right away,” Sirius said, as they slowly traversed the marble staircase, “If anyone knows what’s happened, the Potters will.”
“James 說他會馬上給他爸爸發一封貓頭鷹信，”Sirius 說道，他們慢慢走過大理石樓梯，“如果有人知道發生了什麼，Potters 會知道。”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, wheezing, “Good…” But he knew that it was all no good. Whatever had happened, had happened, and it had been just as awful as Castor promised. It was the end of any chance of civility for the werewolves.
“是的，”Remus 點了點頭，喘著氣，“很好……”但他知道這一切都沒有用。無論發生了什麼，都已經發生了，而且就像 Castor 承諾的那樣糟糕。這意味著狼人失去了任何文明的機會。

Back in the dorm room, James was still waiting for a reply from his parents. Remus sat down on his bed, heavily, chest heaving, every part of him aching, his skin on fire.
回到宿舍，James 還在等待他父母的回覆。Remus 重重地坐在床上，胸口起伏不定，身體的每一部分都在疼痛，皮膚燒灼著。

“You could just bunk off,” Sirius said, awkwardly, glancing at the others, “We do it all the time.”
“你可以不去上課，”Sirius 尷尬地說，看了看其他人，“我們經常這樣做。”

Remus shook his head. He hauled himself up, clutching the bed frame.
Remus 搖了搖頭。他掙扎著站起來，緊緊抓住床架。

“Can’t risk it. We’ve got Arithmancy first, Snape’s in that - if the papers are full of werewolf attacks and I’m not there, what d’you want to bet he’ll be the first to start stirring? I’m going for a shower, just a minute.”
“不能冒這個險。我們第一節課是算術，Snape 在那裡——如果報紙上滿是狼人攻擊而我不在，那你怎麼看他會不會是第一個開始炒作的人？我去洗個澡，馬上就來。”

He could hear the other three marauders whispering loudly through the bathroom door, but he hadn’t the energy to focus on anything except getting through the next six hours. He turned on the taps and let the hissing water drown them out.
他能聽到另外三個調皮捣蛋者在浴室門外大聲低語，但他沒力氣去關注任何事情，只想度過接下來的六個小時。他打開水龍頭，讓嘶嘶的水聲淹沒他們的聲音。

WEREWOLF ATTACKS - MAGICAL COMMUNITY DEMANDS ACTION!
狼人攻擊 - 魔法界要求採取行動！

Hundreds were affected by a string of brutal werewolf attacks during last nights full moon which left fifteen wizards dead and at least five missing - presumed kidnapped. None of the creatures responsible have been identified as yet, and the Auror’s office has advised everyone to be on high alert, and to consult the published ministry guidelines on identifying and approaching werewolves, which are classified XXXXX and considered highly dangerous.
數百人受到昨晚滿月期間一系列殘暴狼人攻擊的影響，造成十五名巫師死亡，至少五人失踪——被認為是被綁架了。負責的生物至今尚未被確認，奧羅部門已經建議大家保持高度警惕，並參考已發布的部門指南，以識別和接近狼人，這些指南被列為 XXXXX，並被認為極其危險。

The interim minister for magic has been criticised for failure to maintain the Werewolf Register, established by Newt Scamander in 1947. Speaking for the opposition, Abraxas Malfoy released a statement in the early hours of this morning:
臨時魔法部長因未能維護1947年由 Newt Scamander 設立的狼人登記冊而受到批評。反對派發言人 Abraxas Malfoy 在今天清晨發表了一份聲明：

“Last night’s attacks are further proof that the ministry is in dire need of reform, and on behalf of the ancient and law abiding magical families of Great Britain we demand stricter sanctions on half humans and other undesirable and potentially dangerous elements.”
“昨晚的攻擊進一步證明了魔法部迫切需要改革，代表大不列顛的古老且守法的魔法家庭，我們要求對半人類和其他不受歡迎的、潛在危險的元素實施更嚴格的制裁。”

This statement has provoked outrage in what insiders are describing as an increasingly divided ministry…”
這份聲明在內部人士描述的越來越分裂的魔法部中引發了憤怒……”

---

 

“No names.” James muttered darkly. “That’s not good.”
“没有名字。”James 黑暗地嘟囔道，“这不好。”

“Protecting the victims’ families?” Sirius suggested.
“保护受害者的家人？”Sirius 提议道。

“Since when has the Daily Prophet cared about that?” Lily hissed, venomously. “Since when has the ministry?!”
“《预言家日报》什么时候关心这些事了？”Lily 恶毒地说道，“魔法部又什么时候关心过？！”

“Careful what you say!” Peter whispered, his eyes wide, “My cousin who works at the Prophet said they’re being sent really strict guidelines on what they can write - about the ministry, the war, anything - and there are spies everywhere checking on them, making sure no one’s being too critical.”
“说话小心点！”Peter 低声说，眼睛睁得大大的，“我表哥在《预言家日报》工作，说他们收到了一些非常严格的写作指南——关于魔法部、战争、任何事情——而且到处都有间谍监视他们，确保没有人过于批评。”

This made everyone go quiet, and Lily looked around nervously, glancing over her shoulder. It didn’t matter; everyone in the Great Hall seemed to be talking about the same thing, huddled in groups over newspapers, whispering amongst themselves.
这让大家都安静了下来，Lily 紧张地四处张望，回头看了看。没关系；大礼堂里的每个人似乎都在讨论同一件事，成群结队地围绕着报纸，低声窃窃私语。

“It’s not as if we’re disagreeing with what the paper says,” Marlene whispered, leaning forward, “I hate Malfoy’s politics as much as the next half-blood, but he’s right about the failures of the register. The werewolves need to be contained, or stuff like this will happen, dark lord or not!”
“这不是说我们不同意报纸上的内容，”Marlene 低声说，向前倾身，“我对 Malfoy 的政治厌恶不亚于下一个混血巫师，但他关于登记册失败的说法是对的。狼人需要被控制，否则这种事情会发生，无论是否有黑魔头！”

“That’s ridiculous!” Sirius scoffed, “An organised attack like this only happens when there’s someone behind it, this would never happen without Voldemort goading them.”
“这真荒谬！”Sirius 讥讽道，“像这样的有组织的攻击只有在背后有某人操控时才会发生，没有伏地魔的煽动，这绝对不会发生。”

Everyone winced as he said the name. Remus had noticed that happening more and more, as the list of missing grew and people trusted each other less.
他提到那个名字时，大家都畏缩了一下。Remus 注意到这种情况越来越频繁，失踪人员的名单不断增加，人们之间的信任也越来越少。

“They’re still dangerous.” Marlene replied. “I don’t see why we’re pretending they aren’t - it says right here,” she jabbed the black and white print, “Classified XXXXX. I know it’s unfortunate for them, they might have been perfectly normal otherwise, but facts are facts.”
“他们仍然很危险。”Marlene 回复道，“我不明白我们为什么要假装他们不是——这里写着，”她戳了戳黑白印刷的文字，“分类 XXXXX。我知道这对他们来说不幸，他们可能本来是完全正常的，但事实就是事实。”

No one said anything to that.
对此没有人说什么。

Remus doing his best to ignore all of them. He was busy writing a letter to Professor Ferox, who was the only person he could think of who had been in potential danger last night. Livia knew him; he had attacked her once, and Remus thought she seemed like the sort of person to hold a grudge. Besides, writing gave him something to distract himself from how dreadful he felt; aching and shivery all over. He knew he looked awful too, and thought it best to keep his head down.
Remus 竭尽全力忽略他们。他忙于给 Ferox 教授写信，Ferox 教授是他唯一能想到的昨晚可能处于危险中的人。Livia 认识他；他曾经攻击过她，Remus 觉得她似乎是那种会怀恨在心的人。此外，写信让他有事可做，以分散他感到糟糕的情绪；全身疼痛和发抖。他也知道自己看起来很糟糕，觉得还是低头比较好。

“She doesn’t know what she’s talking about.” Lily whispered to him, on their way out of the Hall. “Marls just sees everything as black and white. Don’t take it personally,”
“她不知道自己在说什么。”Lily 低声对他说，正准备离开礼堂，“Marls 只是把一切都看成是非黑即白。不要放在心上。”

“I don’t.” Remus replied, tiredly, “I’m fine, don’t worry about me.”
“我不会的。”Remus 疲倦地回答道，“我没事，别担心我。”

Still, he was dreading Care of Magical Creatures later that morning, when he’d have to sit next to Marlene. He’d cast a glamour to cover up his newer scars, and was sipping on a Pepper Up potion as if it was keeping him alive, but he couldn’t hide the fact that he was utterly exhausted. Not to mention the bone crushing guilt he felt over the attacks. He’d known they were going to happen. He’d told Dumbledore, but it hadn’t been enough, he ought to have done more.
尽管如此，他还是很害怕上午晚些时候的神奇生物护理课，因为他不得不坐在 Marlene 旁边。他施了一个魅影咒来掩盖他新的伤疤，并像喝了 Pepper Up 药水一样，仿佛它能让他活下去，但他无法掩饰自己完全疲惫的事实。更不用说他对这些袭击感到的沉重内疚。他早就知道这些事会发生。他已经告诉了邓布利多，但这还不够，他应该做得更多。

Arithmancy wasn’t too bad; he had Sirius, James and Lily in that, and they formed a protective huddle around him, taking their seats at the back of the class. The exercises were almost impossible to do, Remus found his mind oddly fractured; unable to hold down a thought for very long. James and Sirius fell into their usual clownish mischief, creating a satisfactory distraction any time the teacher glanced up at Remus. He was so grateful, especially as they had both been up all night too.
算术课还算不错；他有 Sirius、James 和 Lily 在其中，他们围成了一个保护性的小圈子，坐在教室的后面。作业几乎不可能完成，Remus 发现自己的思维异常碎片化，无法长时间集中注意力。James 和 Sirius 进入了他们惯有的滑稽恶作剧，任何时候老师瞥向 Remus 时，他们都制造了令人满意的分心。他非常感激，尤其是他们两个整晚也没休息。

Afterwards, Sirius walked him to Care of Magical Creatures, as he had a free hour, and Remus hadn’t the energy to refuse. The hallways were too busy for him to risk leaning on the other boy for support, so they just went slowly.
之后，Sirius 带着他去上神奇生物护理课，因为他有一个空闲的小时，而 Remus 没有精力拒绝。走廊太拥挤，他不敢依靠其他男孩的支持，只能慢慢走。

“Just bunk off?” Sirius pleaded, watching him struggle down the third flight of stairs, “You’ve shown your face, Snivellus has seen you…”
“干脆逃课？”Sirius 恳求道，看着他艰难地走下第三段楼梯，“你已经露面了，Snivellus 已经看见你了……”

Remus just shook his head, carrying on doggedly. As he reached the bottom, a couple of third year boys rushed past, shouting at each other and laughing. One of them bumped into Remus with his bag, which would have been nothing on a good day, but at that moment was exactly the wrong thing, and knocked Remus sideways into the bannister. He bit his lip as the left side of his body hit the hard stone, but couldn’t help letting out a gasp of pain.
Remus 只是摇了摇头，执着地继续前行。当他到达楼梯底部时，几个三年级的男孩冲过来，相互喊叫着笑。一个男孩用他的包撞到了 Remus，这在平时没什么，但在那个时刻正好是错误的举动，将 Remus 撞到了一侧的扶手上。他咬住嘴唇，感到身体的左侧撞上了坚硬的石头，但忍不住发出了一声痛苦的喘息。

“Syrtis-corpius!” Sirius yelled, pulling his wand out and firing the hex at all three boys. They yelped as the marble staircases turned to quicksand beneath them, and began to swallow them up. Sirius only stopped it when their legs were dangling through the bottom and they were both trapped halfway. “Watch where you’re going!” He said, menacingly, before helping Remus down the last few steps.
“Syrtis-corpius！”Sirius 大喊，抽出魔杖，对三个男孩施了咒语。他们尖叫着，因为大理石楼梯变成了流沙，开始吞噬他们。Sirius 直到他们的腿悬在底部，被困在中途才停止了咒语。“小心点！”他说，带着威胁，随后帮助 Remus 下完最后几步台阶。

No one intervened - no one ever did when it was Sirius - and Remus was too focussed on getting to his lesson on time.
没有人插手——当是 Sirius 时，没人会插手——而 Remus 只专注于准时到达他的课程。

“Promise me you’ll go back and free them?” He asked, as they neared the classroom, “I don’t need you getting a detention on top of everything…”
“答应我你会回去解救他们？”他问道，随着他们接近教室，“我不希望你再因为这事被拘留……”

“If someone else hasn’t found them,” Sirius shrugged. “I only taught them a lesson, any prefect would have done the same.”
“如果其他人还没有发现他们，”Sirius 轻描淡写地说，“我只是给他们上了一课，任何一个监考员都会这么做。”

Remus usually would have found that funny, but he felt as though he was wading through quicksand too, his limbs heavy and slow, everything around him foggy and blurred. “Right,” Sirius was saying, “I’ll be back here in an hour to get you.”
Remus 通常会觉得这很有趣，但他感觉自己也像在流沙中一样，四肢沉重缓慢，周围的一切都模糊不清。“好，”Sirius 说，“我会在一个小时后回来接你。”

“I don’t need collecting, I’m not a child.” Remus muttered.
“我不需要接送，我不是小孩子。”Remus 嘟囔道。

“No,” Sirius squeezed his hand, very quickly, “You’re my Moony.”
“不，”Sirius 很快地握了握他的手，“你是我的 Moony。”

He made a mental note to save that up for later, when he was alone, and could bask in the thought of being Sirius’s anything. Just now he hated himself too much to allow anyone to be kind.
他在心里记下了稍后独自一人时保存那个想法的决定，那时他可以沉浸在成为 Sirius 的任何人的念头中。此刻，他太讨厌自己了，无法允许任何人对他表示友善。

Care of Magical Creatures was worse than he could have imagined. His temperature was running even higher from the exertion, and he had to keep wiping sweat from his eyes, hair sticking to his forehead. Despite breakfast having been only an hour earlier, his stomach felt like an empty cavern, growling intermittently. His head ached and his vision swam, but he sat bolt upright, staring fixedly at the blackboard.
神奇生物护理课比他想象的还要糟糕。他的体温因劳累而更高，他不得不不断擦拭汗水，头发黏在额头上。尽管早餐才一个小时前，但他的胃感觉像个空洞，不时发出咕咕声。头痛，视线模糊，但他坐得笔直，目不转睛地盯着黑板。

They were supposed to be doing dragons - identifying the various species and their individual properties. Kettleburn began the lesson as he always did, with a terrifying and usually harrowing story of an encounter he’d had with whichever creature they were discussing. Today was no different, and the battle-scarred professor was in his element today - he had lost two limbs to dragons.
他们应该在学习龙——识别各种龙的种类及其特性。Kettleburn 像往常一样开始了课程，用一个恐怖且通常令人痛苦的故事讲述他与他们讨论的生物的遭遇。今天也没有例外，这位满身伤痕的教授今天表现得非常得心应手——他曾因龙而失去了两条肢体。

Despite this animated tale, only half of the class was actually paying attention (you could tell by the look of faint horror on their faces as they scribbled down notes). The other half - Marlene and Mary included - was busy reading the chapter in their textbooks which concerned werewolves.
尽管有这个生动的故事，只有一半的班级实际上在注意（你可以从他们边写笔记边露出的微弱恐惧中看出来）。另一半——包括 Marlene 和 Mary——则忙于阅读教科书中有关狼人的章节。

“There’s something a bit sexy about the whole beast-man thing, though,” Mary whispered across Remus, who began to feel light-headed.
“不过，整个野兽人之类的东西还是有点性感的，”Mary 低声对 Remus 说道，Remus 开始感到头晕。

“Mary!” Marlene hissed, angrily, “That’s completely insensitive, people died!”
“Mary！”Marlene 生气地低声斥责，“这完全是没心没肺，人们死了！”

“I’m just saying!”
“我只是说说而已！”

“You wouldn’t think that, anyway, if you met a real one! I spoke to Sian Bolsh over the summer; she left last year for healer training, and she’s been shadowing a healer on the lycanthropy ward at St. Mungo’s. They have awful hygiene, most of them, because they can’t live near normal wizards, and they basically live off hand-outs and charity--”
“如果你见到真正的狼人，你不会这么想！我在暑假时和 Sian Bolsh 说过；她去年离开去接受治疗师培训，她一直在 St. Mungo’s 的狼人病房跟随一位治疗师。他们中的大多数人卫生条件极差，因为他们不能住在正常巫师附近，他们基本上依靠施舍和慈善——”

“Well then I feel sorry for them!” Mary snapped back, “That sounds horrible, wizards are so heartless.”
“那我就为他们感到难过！”Mary 回嘴道，“这听起来太可怕了，巫师们真是无情。”

“You’re being deliberately dense! They’re not safe --”
“你故意无知！他们不安全——”

“Excuse me, Professor Kettleburn,” the whole class turned to see McGonagall standing in the doorway. Remus’s stomach dropped - had she come for him? Had the ministry finally come for him?!
“打扰了，Kettleburn 教授，”全班转头看到 McGonagall 站在门口。Remus 的胃一下子沉了下来——她是来找他的吗？难道魔法部终于来找他了吗？！

The head of Gryffindor house looked very grave, and was holding a letter in her hand, but she did not look at Remus. “I am sorry to interrupt. Marlene McKinnon, may I speak to you?”
格兰芬多学院院长看起来非常严肃，手里拿着一封信，但她没有看 Remus。“抱歉打扰了。我能和 Marlene McKinnon 谈谈吗？”

Marlene frowned and stood up, setting her quill back into the inkwell. She threw a confused glance back at Mary and Remus before following Professor McGonagall out of the room. The door closed and everyone stared at it in silence.
Marlene 皱了皱眉，站起身，把羽毛笔放回墨水瓶里。她困惑地看了一眼 Mary 和 Remus，然后跟着 McGonagall 教授离开了房间。门关上了，大家默默地盯着门看。

“She can’t be in trouble,” Mary whispered to Remus, “She’s too goody-goody.”
“她不可能惹上麻烦，”Mary 低声对 Remus 说，“她太乖了。”

Remus mumbled something, but his hunger had turned into queasiness and he didn’t want to open his mouth. He wished he could take off his cloak, the room was so stuffy and hot; he was getting uncomfortably damp under his armpits and across his back. “Are you all right, sweetheart?” Mary asked, her face concerned. “You look like you’re going to puke, is it Kettleburn’s horrid stories?”
Remus 嘟囔了几句，但饥饿变成了恶心，他不想张嘴。他希望自己能脱下外套，这个房间太闷热了；他的腋下和背部感到不舒服地潮湿。“你还好吗，亲爱的？”Mary 问道，脸上带着担忧。“你看起来要吐了，是 Kettleburn 的可怕故事吗？”

“Mmmph.” Remus nodded very slightly, shooting pains firsting up his neck as he did so. He rested his forehead in his hands, hoping he just looked like he was really interested in his notes.
“Mmmph。”Remus 微微点了点头，脖子上先是一阵刺痛。他将额头靠在手上，希望自己看起来只是对笔记非常感兴趣。

There was no room for Mary to probe him anymore, though. A horrible shriek sounded outside the classroom, followed by a chilling moan of absolute despair. Mary was on her feet at once, and flew out of the room to see her friend. Remus caught only a glimpse as the door swung open and shut, of Marlene on her knees, sobbing, and McGonagall bent over her, patting her shoulders.
不过，Mary 再也没有机会探问他了。教室外传来一声可怕的尖叫，随后是一声彻底绝望的寒冷呻吟。Mary 立刻站起身，飞快地跑出房间去找她的朋友。Remus 只在门开合时瞥见了一眼，看到 Marlene 跪在地上抽泣，McGonagall 弯下身，拍着她的肩膀。

Even Kettleburn was rendered mute for a few minutes, before regaining his composure, and clearing his throat.
连 Kettleburn 也沉默了几分钟，然后才恢复镇定，清了清喉咙。

“We’re living in difficult times,” he said, quite out of character, “I urge you all to be kind to each other, especially as you prepare to leave Hogwarts.”
“我们生活在艰难的时期，”他说，完全不像平时，“我敦促你们彼此善待，尤其是在你们准备离开霍格沃茨的时候。”

The lesson continued after that, much subdued, and it took all of Remus’s concentration to stay conscious in his seat, now that he was alone on his desk. About fifteen minutes before the class was due to end, there was a second knock at the door.
课程在那之后继续进行，变得更加沉寂，Remus 需要集中全部注意力才能保持清醒。就在课程结束前大约十五分钟，门上又响起了第二声敲门声。

“Enter!” Kettleburn barked. The door opened, and Lily walked in,
“进来！”Kettleburn 吼道。门开了，Lily 走了进来，

“Good morning, professor, I’ve just come to collect Marlene’s things for her.”
“早上好，教授，我来给 Marlene 收拾东西。”

Kettleburn nodded and gestured at Marlene’s desk, where her work was still spread out, her book bag hanging off the back of her chair. Lily went over and quickly started gathering things together. She took one look at Remus and raised her head, “Sorry, professor - could I ask Remus to come with me? I didn’t realise Mary left all of her bits too…”
Kettleburn 点了点头，示意 Marlene 的桌子，那里她的工作还散落着，她的书包挂在椅子背上。Lily 过去，迅速开始收拾东西。她看了一眼 Remus，抬起头，“抱歉，教授——我能让 Remus 跟我一起走吗？我没意识到 Mary 也把所有东西都忘了……”

“Of course, of course,” Kettleburn nodded, distractedly, labelling a diagram of a dragon’s lair on the board. “Chapters eighteen to twenty five for next lesson, please, Mr Lupin.”
“当然，当然，”Kettleburn 心不在焉地点了点头，给黑板上的龙穴图标上标签。“下一节课请看第十八章到第二十五章，Lupin 先生。”

“Yes sir,” Remus croaked, picking up Mary’s bag. Thank god it wasn’t heavy. And thank god for Lily Evans.
“是的，先生，”Remus 嘶哑地答道，拿起 Mary 的书包。谢天谢地，它不重。也谢天谢地有 Lily Evans。

As soon as they were outside in the corridor, Remus leaned heavily against the wall and closed his eyes.
一出到走廊，Remus 就重重地靠在墙上，闭上了眼睛。

“Oh, Remus,” Lily said, anxiously, raising a cool hand to his forehead, “You look dreadful!”
“哦，Remus，”Lily 焦急地说，伸出凉爽的手摸了摸他的额头，“你看起来很糟糕！”

“I’m fine.” He mumbled, uselessly, eyes still shut, “Just give me a second… is Marlene…?”
“我没事。”他无力地嘟囔，眼睛仍然闭着，“给我一点时间……Marlene……”

“She’s gone home.” Lily lowered her voice, though they were quite alone, “Her brother, Danny, was attacked last night. St. Mungo’s started realising names.”
“她回家了。”Lily 降低了声音，尽管他们很孤独，“她的哥哥 Danny 昨晚遭到了袭击。St. Mungo’s 开始确认名字。”

Remus’s head swam; he opened his eyes only to see black spots, and closed them again, in case he fainted,
Remus 的头晕了；他睁开眼睛只看到黑点，又闭上了，以防他昏倒。

“Is he…”
“他怎么样了……”

“He’s alive. But… it doesn’t sound very good.”
“他还活着。但是……听起来不是很好。”

The guilt was overwhelming, roaring in Remus’s ears. How would he ever look Marlene in the eye again? “Come on,” Lily took his arm and draped it over her shoulders. She fitted very snugly, but he didn’t dare lean on her too much, “I’m taking you to the tower, you’re in no state for school. I’ll say you’re helping me pack for Marlene.”
内疚感压倒了一切，在 Remus 的耳边轰鸣。他怎么能再直视 Marlene 的眼睛？ “走吧，”Lily 扶着他的胳膊，搭在她的肩膀上。她的体型非常贴合，但他不敢过多依靠她，“我带你去塔楼，你现在没有状态上学。我会说你在帮我为 Marlene 收拾东西。”

“Someone ought to tell--” He was about to say Yasmin, but realised that it was still a secret. “...Madam Pomfrey.” He finished, lamely, “Marlene’s going to miss healing lessons.”
“有人应该告诉——”他正要提 Yasmin，却意识到那还是个秘密。“……Madam Pomfrey。”他无力地补充道，“Marlene 会错过治疗课。”

“I’m sure she already knows,” Lily replied, briskly, “Come along, now.”
“我相信她已经知道了，”Lily 迅速回答，“我们走吧。”

She was a lot harder to refuse than Sirius.
她比 Sirius 更难拒绝。

 

Chapter 133: Seventh Year: Sunday Afternoon 

Sunday 29th January 1978

“Moony?”

“Mmm?”

“It’s after midday…”

“So?”

“Thought you might fancy getting up?”

“...no thanks.”

“Can I come in?”

“...no.”

“...ok, then.” Sirius began to walk away, and Remus’s stomach flipped.
“...好吧。”天狼星开始走开，雷木斯的胃翻了个跟头。

“I’m sorry.” He said, loud enough for Sirius to hear, and stop. Remus finally crawled out of the covers. “I do want you here, I just don’t know what to say.”
“对不起。”他大声说道，让天狼星听到并停下。雷木斯终于从被子里爬了出来。“我确实希望你在这里，只是我不知道该说什么。”

He could hear Sirius fidgeting, his hands in his pockets, then running through his hair. Finally,
他能听到天狼星在扭动，手插在口袋里，然后用手揉着头发。最后，

“We don’t have to talk?”
“我们不需要谈话吗？”

Remus sighed. He was a mess; he hadn’t washed properly since Wednesday, and had only got out of bed to use the bathroom. The other boys had been feeding him by passing food through the crack in his curtains, and if they hadn’t Remus wasn’t sure if he’d have eaten at all. He was in the worst state he’d ever been in. But he missed Sirius.
雷木斯叹了口气。他一团糟；自从星期三以来他没有好好洗过澡，只是为了上厕所才离开床铺。其他男孩通过帘缝给他送食物，如果没有他们，雷木斯不确定自己是否会吃东西。他处于他有史以来最糟糕的状态。但他很想天狼星。

“...ok then.”
“...好吧。”

The curtains parted and Remus scowled against the bright daylight, but Sirius crawled in quickly, closing them again. He looked at Remus, but he didn’t look too hard before shuffling down next to him and enveloping him in his arms.
帘子分开了，雷木斯在明亮的日光下皱起了眉头，但天狼星迅速爬进来，重新把帘子关上了。他看了雷木斯一眼，但没有过多打量，就在他身边坐下，抱住了他。

“Thanks,” he breathed against Remus’s hair, “for letting me in.”
“谢谢，”他低声对雷木斯的头发说，“谢谢你让我进来。”

“Reckon I must stink.”
“我觉得我一定很臭。”

Sirius inhaled deeply, tickling Remus’s forehead and making him squirm.
天狼星深吸了一口气，挠了挠雷木斯的额头，让他扭动身体。

“Nope, just smell like Moony.”
“不，闻起来只是像月狼一样。”

“Gerroff, mutt.” Remus wriggled away from him.
“滚开，狗头。”雷木斯从他身边挪开了。

“Feel like getting up soon? Everyone’s worried. And they’re looking at me now, like I know what to do, because everyone knows about us, which is weird, and quite a lot of pressure, really.”
“想早点起床吗？大家都很担心。他们现在看着我，好像我知道该怎么做一样，因为大家都知道我们之间的事，这很奇怪，也确实很有压力。”

Remus chuckled, and it felt strange, but good. Still, he had a melancholic episode to maintain.
雷木斯轻笑了一声，这感觉很奇怪，但也很好。不过，他还是要维持那种忧郁的情绪。

“I still don’t feel like getting up.”
“我还是不想起床。”

“Ok, then you need to let me hide here with you, because I’m not going back out there.”
“好吧，那你得让我跟你躲在这里，因为我不打算再出去。”

“ Sirius.”
“天狼星。”

“Re mus.” Sirius frowned at him, exaggerating his eyebrows to look stupid.
“雷木斯。”天狼星对他皱起眉头，夸张地扬起眉毛，看起来很傻。

“Stop it.” Remus folded his arms, aware he was starting to sound like a sulky child.
“停下。”雷木斯抱起胳膊，意识到自己开始听起来像个闹脾气的孩子。

“I will not.” Sirius poked him in the ribs, “Come on, I know you’re feeling like shit about everything, but did you ever consider that it's not for you to hog all of the misery like this? That maybe if you talk to your friends it might not all seem quite so bleak?”
“我才不呢。”天狼星戳了戳他的肋骨，“来吧，我知道你对一切都感觉糟糕，但你有没有想过，不是你一个人要承担所有的痛苦？也许如果你和朋友们谈谈，事情可能不会那么悲观？”

Remus frowned up at him, arms still crossed.
雷木斯皱着眉头看着他，胳膊仍然抱在胸前。

“Maybe that works for you…”
“也许这对你有效……”

“Are you saying this is working for you?”
“你是在说这对你有效吗？”

Remus pressed his lips together. They stared each other out for a minute. Remus began to think he’d quite like to fight Sirius right now, like they did on full moons; just because it was a fun way to expel energy. Then he noticed something. He sniffed the air.
雷木斯紧闭着嘴唇。他们对视了一分钟。雷木斯开始觉得他现在很想和天狼星打架，就像他们在满月时那样；只是因为那是一种有趣的发泄方式。然后他注意到了什么。他闻了闻空气。

“Are you bleeding? I can smell blood.”
“你在流血吗？我能闻到血腥味。”

“Probably you, from the moon.”
“可能是你，来自满月的伤口。”

“No, I’ve healed already, I never have open wounds longer than a day.”
“不，我已经愈合了，我从来不会有超过一天的开放伤口。”

“Bloody hell,” Sirius laughed, lightly, “How is it possible for you to get any cooler?!”
“天呐，”天狼星轻轻地笑了，“你怎么可能变得更酷呢？！”

“And it's your blood, I can tell.”
“而且是你的血，我可以分辨出来。”

“There you go again! You’re basically a superhero.”
“你又来了！你简直是个超级英雄。”

“ Sirius!”
“天狼星！”

“Ok, ok,” he sat up, running his hands through his hair. “You swiped at me a few times over the moon, I told you that, we did it to each other. And you can’t turn me when I’m a dog, we’ve tested that enough times.”
“好，好，”他坐起来，跑过手发。 “你在满月时挠了我几次，我告诉过你，我们互相做过。你不能在我变成狗的时候变回我，我们已经测试了很多次。”

“But you’re still bleeding?! It was almost a week ago! You need to go to Madam Pomfrey!”
“但你还在流血？！已经快一周了！你需要去找庞弗雷夫人！”

“Oh yeah, and say my werewolf boyfriend scratched me while I was in dog form as an illegal animagus?!”
“哦，对了，还要说我变成狗的时候被我的狼人男朋友抓伤了，作为一个非法的动画形态？！”

“Jesus.” Remus groaned, hauling himself up and out of bed, grabbing Sirius by the wrist and pulling him along.
“天啊。”雷木斯呻吟着，拉起自己从床上起来，抓住天狼星的手腕，拉着他往外走。

“Where are we going?!”
“我们要去哪儿？！”

“I need better light!”
“我需要更好的光线！”

He yanked open the bathroom door and slammed down the lid of the toilet. “Sit.” He instructed. Sirius complied, half smiling.
他猛地打开了浴室的门，狠狠地拍下了马桶盖。“坐下。”他指示道。天狼星顺从地坐下，半笑着。

Remus opened the little mirror cabinet above the sink, digging out murtlap essence and disinfectant and gauze and cotton balls. (He had found over years of trial and error that a combination of magical and muggle things worked best. As with almost everything else.) He pulled his wand out of his pyjama bottoms and stood in front of Sirius.
雷木斯打开了洗手池上方的小镜柜，挖出了墨特拉普精华、消毒剂、纱布和棉球。（他发现经过多年的尝试和错误，魔法和麻瓜的结合效果最佳。就像几乎所有其他事情一样。）他从睡裤里抽出他的魔杖，站在天狼星面前。

“Ok. Show me.”
“好吧。给我看看。”

Sirius dropped his head, no longer enjoying Remus’s newfound motivation. He sighed heavily and lifted his shirt, saying, “It's not that bad…”
“也不是那么糟糕……”

It wasn’t as bad as Remus had feared, but it still made his stomach clench when he saw. Three dark red stripes, across Sirius’s ribs. They were starting to heal, but he knew he could fix it fairly easily. He took a deep breath, met Sirius’s eye, and then reached for the disinfectant. Then his wand. Remus was pretty good at healing cuts now, and the scab and the redness were gone in an instant. Now they were white stripes.
“没有 Remus 想象中的那么糟糕，但看到它时他仍感到肚子一阵绞痛。Sirius 的肋骨上有三道深红色的伤痕。伤痕开始愈合了，但他知道自己可以很容易地处理好它。他深吸了一口气，与 Sirius 对视，然后拿起消毒剂和魔杖。Remus 现在对治疗伤口相当擅长，伤疤和红肿瞬间消失。现在只剩下白色的伤痕。”

“I’m so sorry,” he said, mournfully. “It was a magical wound. You’ll have a scar there for the rest of your life, now.”
“对不起，”他忧伤地说，“这是一个魔法伤口。你现在会在那里留下一个伤疤，余生都带着它。”

Sirius looked down at the mark, then up again.
“Sirius 低头看了看伤痕，然后又抬起头来。”

“That's fine, Remus.” He said, quietly.
“没关系，Remus。”他静静地说道。

So, Remus rejoined the group, at Sirius’s goading, and they were all kind enough to pretend he had merely been unwell, and not avoiding them. The news over the past few days had been particularly grim. First the Prophet had published a list of the dead, and their photographs. Then they had published a list of those ‘presumed bitten’, along with their photographs, which had provoked outcry among some of the more liberal commentators, and ignited a debate on mandatory registration for all werewolves.
“所以，在 Sirius 的刺激下，Remus 重新加入了团队，他们都好心地假装他只是生病了，而不是在躲避他们。过去几天的新闻特别令人沮丧。首先，《预言家日报》发布了死者名单和他们的照片。然后，他们发布了‘疑似被咬’者的名单和他们的照片，这在一些更自由派的评论员中引发了抗议，并引发了关于所有狼人强制登记的辩论。”

Greyback’s name had not been mentioned, nor any other werewolf that Remus was aware of. It was as if the horrific crimes simply happened one night, and the assailants had vanished into thin air. No one had heard from Marlene, either, though Danny McKinnon was one of those named in the papers.
“Greyback 的名字没有被提到，也没有提到其他 Remus 知道的狼人。仿佛那些可怕的罪行只是发生在某个夜晚，而袭击者就这样消失在空气中。Marlene 也没有消息，虽然 Danny McKinnon 是报纸上提到的其中一个人。”

He’d been given a full four inches of text, by virtue of his celebrity as beater for the Chudley Cannons. The team’s manager was interviewed and quoted saying that while he had not yet been briefed on the details Danny’s condition, the Cannons operated a ‘zero-tolerance’ policy to ‘half-breeds and dangerous creatures’, and would deal with any allegations of infection accordingly. James vowed that he would never see a Chudley Cannons game again, but Remus mostly felt sorry for Danny.
“由于他是 Chudley Cannons 的击球手，他获得了整整四英寸的报道。球队经理接受了采访，并引用了他的话，表示虽然他尚未获得 Danny 病情的详细情况，但 Cannons 执行对‘半血和危险生物’的‘零容忍’政策，并将根据任何感染指控采取措施。James 发誓再也不看 Chudley Cannons 的比赛了，但 Remus 对 Danny 感到更为遗憾。”

They tried to put all of this misery behind them, and went down for Sunday lunch (and thank goodness; it was generally Remus’s favourite meal of the week, and he’d have been even more blue if he’d missed it), then spent the rest of the evening cosied up in the common room in front of the fire. Remus even acquiesced to a chess game with Peter, who was thrilled.
“他们尽力将所有这些痛苦抛在脑后，去享用周日午餐（谢天谢地；这通常是 Remus 一周中最喜欢的餐点，如果错过了他会更沮丧），然后在火炉前的公共休息室里度过了余下的晚上。Remus 甚至同意和 Peter 下了一盘棋，Peter 高兴得很。”

“You know what we ought to start getting serious about,” Sirius mused, sorting through his record collection.
“‘你知道我们该开始认真对待什么了，”Sirius 一边整理他的唱片收藏，一边沉思道。”

“NEWTs?” Remus asked, hopefully, as Peter captured his knight.
“‘NEWts（普通巫师文凭考试）？’Remus 希望地问道，当 Peter 捕捉到他的骑士时。”

“Job applications?” Lily said, from the arm chair, where she sat in James’s lap, reading a magazine.
“‘工作申请？’Lily 说，从扶手椅上，她坐在 James 的腿上，看着一本杂志。”

“The quidditch cup?” James suggested.
“‘魁地奇杯？’James 提议道。”

“For goodness sake,” Sirius tiutted, “I’m ashamed to call you all marauders.”
“‘真是的，’Sirius 不满地嘟囔道，‘我都不好意思叫你们这些人作恶作剧者了。’”

“What?!” All three of them frowned, offended. Peter chuckled,
“‘什么？！’他们三个人都皱起了眉头，感到被冒犯了。Peter 笑了起来，”

“He’s talking about the big prank on Slytherin. You know, we started planning it before Christmas.”
“‘他说的是对 Slytherin 的大恶作剧。你知道的，我们在圣诞节前就开始策划了。”

“Wormy-boy, you are without a doubt my very favourite person.” Sirius grinned broadly. Peter snorted,
“‘Wormy-boy，你无疑是我最喜欢的人。’Sirius 露出了灿烂的笑容。Peter 哼了一声，”

“Bugger off,” and promptly captured Remus’s queen.
“‘滚开，’然后迅速捕捉到 Remus 的皇后。”

“Ugh. I don’t know why I bother, haven’t beaten you since I was thirteen.” Remus sighed, leaning back on the rug on his elbows. He looked up at Sirius, “Well then? Got a plan?”
“‘唉。我不知道我为什么要费心，自从我十三岁以来就没有赢过你。’Remus 叹了口气，双肘撑在地毯上。他抬头看着 Sirius，‘那？有计划吗？’”

“Maybe. Whatever we do, I think we should focus the attack on the dungeons.”
“‘也许吧。不管我们做什么，我认为我们应该把攻击重点放在地下室。’”

“Let’s not throw around words like ‘attack’,” Lily said, hurriedly, “This is just a practical joke, right? In the wholesome spirit of harmless house rivalry?”
“‘别用‘攻击’这种词语，’Lily 急忙说，‘这只是个恶作剧，对吧？以一种无害的宿舍竞争的健康精神？’”

“If you like,” Sirius shrugged, half ignoring the interjection. “Anyway, Moony, I thought your study group was in on this? What’s the point in you having all these minions if you can’t make them work for you?”
“‘如果你愿意的话，’Sirius 耸了耸肩，半忽视了插话。‘反正，Moony，我以为你的学习小组也参与了这件事？你拥有这么多手下，难道是为了让他们为你工作吗？’”

“Oh my god, for the last time, they are not my ‘minions’!” Remus rolled his eyes. “Anyway, we’ve not had a proper study group yet this term. I’ve been ever so slightly busy.”
“‘天哪，最后一次了，他们不是我的‘小喽啰’！’Remus 翻了个白眼。‘反正，我们这学期还没有召开过一次正式的学习小组。我最近有点忙。’”

“Well, as none of us are scheduled to be in mortal peril for the next month or so,” Sirius replied, “I think we ought to get cracking. Everyone could do with a laugh, eh? Assemble the troops, we’ll meet sometime next week.”
“‘好吧，由于我们这一个月左右都没有预定要面临生死危险，’Sirius 回答道，‘我认为我们应该开始行动了。大家都需要笑一笑，对吧？召集部队，我们下周某个时候见。’”

“As long as it doesn’t clash with quidditch,” James yawned, “I’m there. Right, I’m off to bed, Transfiguration first thing.”
“‘只要不和魁地奇时间冲突，’James 打了个哈欠，‘我会去的。好吧，我要去睡觉了，明天一早变形课。’”

The others all glanced up at the clock, or began to yawn themselves and agreed to follow suit. The common room was clearing out now, anyway, and they were some of the last to leave.
“其他人都看了看钟表，或者开始打哈欠，并同意跟着一起去。公共休息室现在也在清理，他们是最后几个离开的。”

Remus had just got his pyjamas on and brushed his teeth, when he remembered that he’d left his book downstairs. While that didn’t usually matter, this particular book was Maurice, by E.M. Forster, and though the cover was nondescript, he was a bit concerned that if someone picked it up and read the blurb there would be raised eyebrows.
“Remus 刚换上睡衣刷好牙，就想起他把书落在了楼下。虽然这通常没什么关系，但这本书是 E.M. Forster 的《Maurice》，尽管封面不显眼，他还是有点担心如果有人拿起它看到书摘会引起怀疑。”

Sighing, he left the bathroom and hurried downstairs, muttering, “Getting my book.” to Sirius, who was next in the queue.
“叹了口气，他离开浴室，急匆匆下楼，一边对排在队里的 Sirius 嘟囔着‘去拿我的书’。”

He had just grabbed the book and was about to head back up, when he heard the portrait hole slide open. He turned to see Mary enter. She was wearing a short, spangly silver dress, and she tripped on her way in, but caught herself and giggled.
“他刚拿到书，正准备上楼时，听到肖像洞滑开了。他转身看到 Mary 进来了。她穿着一条短短的闪闪发光的银色裙子，进门时摔了一下，但她自己稳住了，咯咯地笑了起来。”

“All right?” He called to her.
“‘一切还好吗？’他对她喊道。”

She looked up, squinting a bit in the dim light.
“她抬头看了看，在昏暗的光线中微微眯眼。”

“Hiya, sexy,” she grinned, wandering in a bit unsteady on her feet. Might have been the four inch heels she was wearing. Or it might have been the Witches Brew Remus could smell wafting off her.
“‘嗨，性感的家伙，’她咧嘴笑道，脚步有些不稳地走了进来。可能是她穿的四英寸高跟鞋。也可能是 Remus 可以闻到的那股 Witches Brew 酒味。”

“Hello, been somewhere?” He walked back towards the couches, wanting to make sure she was all right before leaving.
“‘你好，去哪儿了？’他走回沙发旁，想确保她没事才离开。”

“Pfffff.” She waved a hand, collapsing into the nearest armchair, spreading her legs out. Her short dress rode up her thighs, but she didn’t seem bothered, “Just a few drinks in the Ravenclaw common room.”
“‘哼哼。’她挥了挥手，倒在最近的扶手椅上，腿分开。她的短裙滑到大腿上，但她似乎不在意，‘只是 Ravenclaw 休息室喝了几杯酒。’”

“Thought you were seeing a Hufflepuff?”
“‘我以为你去见一个 Hufflepuff 呢？’”

“Mm, he was there.” She exhaled, smiling, tilted her head back and closed her eyes. The lids were painted gold, finely rimmed with kohl. She looked like an Egyptian queen in a party frock. “But a lot of people were there, I s’pose.”
“‘嗯，他在那里。’她呼气，微笑着，把头向后仰，闭上了眼睛。眼睑涂成金色，精细地用 kohl 修饰。她看起来像一位穿着派对礼服的埃及女王。‘但我想很多人都在那里。’”

She sounded sad. Remus sat down in the armchair opposite her, clutching the book in his lap.
“她听起来很伤心。Remus 坐在她对面的扶手椅上，抱着膝上的书。”

“Are you ok, Mary?”
“‘Mary，你还好吗？’”

“Oh. Fine.” She opened her eyes, slowly, and smiled at him. She wasn’t that drunk, he realised, but she looked tired, and deeply unhappy. “Just stuff on my mind. Boys being wankers. Poor Marlene.”
“‘哦，还好。’她慢慢地睁开眼睛，对他微笑。她并没有那么醉，Remus 发现，但她看起来很疲倦，也非常不开心。‘只是脑子里有些事。男孩们太讨厌了。可怜的 Marlene。’”

“Have you heard from her?”
“‘你有她的消息吗？’”

Mary shook her head, then sat up, blinking.
“Mary 摇了摇头，然后坐直了，眨了眨眼睛。”

“Haven’t got a fag, have you sweetheart? I don’t usually, but I just really fancy one.”
“‘你有烟吗，亲爱的？我平时不抽，但现在特别想要一根。’”

“Yeah,” Remus reached in his pockets for his matchbox, where he kept the cigarettes he had rolled himself. He slid it open, “Normal or fun?”
“‘有，’Remus 从口袋里拿出他用来存放自己卷的香烟的火柴盒。他打开了它，‘普通的还是有趣的？’”

“Oooh, fun, please,” she purred, reaching over, “Might help me sleep.”
“‘哦，趣味的，谢谢，’她咕哝道，伸手过来，‘也许会帮我睡觉。’”

“Um, about Marlene,” Remus said, lighting his own, “I just had a thought, er… you know her friend Yaz? Have you seen her about? I wasn’t sure if anyone told her--”
“‘嗯，关于 Marlene，’Remus 说，点燃自己的烟，‘我刚有个想法，呃……你知道她的朋友 Yaz 吗？你见过她吗？我不确定是否有人告诉她——’”

“I did.” Mary said, exhaling, watching Remus through the smoke beneath her heavy golden eyelids. “I told her.”
“‘我告诉过她。’Mary 说，呼气，透过烟雾看着 Remus，眼睑沉重且金光闪闪。‘我告诉她了。’”

“Oh!” Remus blinked, surprised. “That’s good, then.”
“‘哦！’Remus 眨了眨眼睛，感到惊讶。‘那就好。’”

“Mmm, I thought she had better know,” Mary mused, pulling a strand of her hair and winding it coyly around her little finger. “Didn’t want her to think Marls had gone cold on her.”
“‘嗯，我觉得她最好知道，’Mary 思索道，把一缕头发绕在小指上。‘不想让她觉得 Marls 对她冷淡了。’”

Remus took a quick, sharp puff on his cigarette, frowning very slightly.
“Remus 吸了一口烟，微微皱了皱眉。”

“What do you mean?”
“‘你什么意思？’”

Mary laughed, arching back in the chair, showing her pearly white teeth. She let the curl of hair spring back into place like a corkscrew.
“Mary 笑了，向椅子后靠，露出一口白牙。她让那缕卷发像螺旋一样回到原位。”

“Oh come on, Remus,” she shook her head, “I know.”
“‘哦，别这样，Remus，’她摇摇头，‘我知道的。’”

“You… she told you?”
“‘你……她告诉你了？’”

“No,” Mary conceded, settling back down with a sigh, “But I’m not thick, despite rumours to the contrary. At least, I know what romance looks like.” She arched her eyebrow, “I’m not as dense as James, for example. How long did he take to figure it out?”
“‘没有，’Mary 承认，叹了口气，‘但我并不愚蠢，尽管有相反的传闻。至少，我知道什么是浪漫。’她挑了挑眉，‘我不像 James 那么迟钝，比如他花了多长时间才弄明白？’”

“He doesn’t know about Marlene,” Remus replied, “They must keep it quiet during quidditch stuff.”
“‘他不知道 Marlene 的事，’Remus 说道，‘他们肯定在魁地奇的时候保持安静。’”

“I’m not talking about Marlene, now. I’m talking about you.”
“‘我现在不是说 Marlene 的事。我说的是你。’”

“Me?!”

“He’s a good kisser, isn’t he?” She winked at him. “But then, you were too, I seem to remember.”
“‘我？!’”

“他亲吻得很好，不是吗？”她对他眨了眨眼。“但我记得你也很棒。”**

“How…?!”

“Mm, I’ve suspected for a little while now. Just little things. All the time you spend together. His being single for more than five minutes. I wasn’t a hundred percent sure, but you’ve just confirmed it for me.”
“‘嗯，我有点怀疑了一段时间了。只是一些小细节。你们一直在一起的时间。他单身超过五分钟。我不是百分之百确定，但你刚刚证实了。’”

“Bugger.”“‘真讨厌。’

She laughed again, a friendly, trilling sound.她又笑了一下，声音亲切而清脆。

“Silly boy.” She smiled affectionately, playing with her hair again as she smoked. She looked at him again, her eyes more focussed. When she spoke, her voice was more serious than normal. “It’s fine if you want to keep it quiet. I was going to wait, to see if you told me yourself - like I’m doing with Marls. But. I just wanted to let you know… I know I’ve got this reputation for being a bit of a big mouth, but I can keep a secret, ok? Especially for my friends. And if…” She bit her lip, “If there’s anything else you’re keeping secret, Remus, then you can trust me, ok? It doesn’t change anything.”

“‘傻孩子。’她亲切地笑着，一边玩弄自己的头发。一边吸烟。她再次看着他，眼神更加专注。她说话时，语气比平时更严肃。‘如果你想保密是没关系的。我原本打算等你自己告诉我——就像我对 Marls 做的那样。但是。我只是想让你知道……我知道我有点爱说话的名声，但我可以保守秘密，好吗？尤其是对我的朋友们。如果……’她咬了咬嘴唇，‘如果你还有其他秘密，Remus，你可以相信我，好吗？这不会改变什么。’”**

This was almost too many revelations for one evening. Remus sucked hard on his cigarette, and half wished he’d opted for a spliff too.
“这几乎是一个晚上太多的揭示了。Remus 使劲吸了一口烟，半希望自己也抽了个大麻卷。”

“What are you saying?” He asked, very carefully. “Do you think you know something… else?”
“‘你在说什么？’他小心翼翼地问。‘你觉得你知道其他的东西吗？’”

“Remus.” She sat up. “The scars? Being ill every full moon? We do the same Care of Magical Creatures class.”
“‘Remus。’她坐直了。‘那些伤疤？每次满月生病？我们上同一门神奇生物学课的。’”

“You can’t tell anyone.” Remus said, his voice very low, even though they were completely alone. “Please, Mary… me and Sirius, that’s one thing, but this… I could get kicked out of school. I could get arrested!”
“‘你不能告诉任何人。’Remus 说，声音非常低，尽管他们完全是独处的。‘拜托，Mary……我和 Sirius 的事是一码事，但这……我可能会被开除。我可能会被逮捕！’”

“Hey!” Mary stood up, quickly, and came over to sit on the arm of the chair, “I’m not going to tell! That’s what I’m trying to explain.” She wound an arm around his shoulder. “Makes no difference to me, I swear.”
“‘嘿！’Mary 快速站起，坐到椅子的扶手上，‘我不会告诉的！这就是我想解释的。’她把手臂绕到他的肩膀上。‘对我来说没什么区别，我发誓。’”

“Really?”
“‘真的？’”

“Honestly.” She kissed his cheek and gave him a squeeze. “So don’t take what happened to Marlene’s brother so hard, eh? It was nothing to do with you.”
“‘真的。’她亲吻了他的脸颊，给了他一个拥抱。‘所以不要把 Marlene 的兄弟发生的事看得那么严重，好吗？这和你无关。’”

“She’d never forgive me, if she knew…” Remus said, sadly. Mary handed him what was left of the joint and he puffed on it gratefully.
“‘如果她知道的话，她永远不会原谅我……’Remus 伤心地说。Mary 把剩下的烟递给他，他感激地吸了一口。”

“Don’t worry about that,” She said, flippantly, “She’ll come around. She knows who you really are. And maybe you could help? You could write to Danny, even - I bet he could do with a friend.”
“‘别担心，’她轻描淡写地说，‘她会明白的。她知道你真正的样子。也许你可以帮忙？你可以写信给 Danny，甚至——我敢打赌他需要一个朋友。’”

“That’s--” Remus was about to say that while it was a really nice idea, it was almost impossible, considering the fact that he was unregistered, and it would be a bad idea to draw attention to himself.
“‘那是——’Remus 正要说虽然这是个很好的主意，但考虑到他没有登记，这几乎是不可能的，而且引起注意也不好。”

“Mooony, where are you?” Sirius’s plaintive voice came clattering down the stairs, “I can smell the pot all the way from here, you’re not being subtle-- oh! Hiya MacDonald.”
“‘Moony，你在哪儿？’Sirius 的哀怨声音从楼梯上传来，‘我能从这里闻到大麻的味道，你不够隐蔽——哦！嗨，MacDonald。’”

“Black,” Mary nodded, still perched on the arm of Remus’s chair, “Sorry, I’m trying to seduce your boyfriend.”
“‘Black，’Mary 点了点头，仍然坐在 Remus 椅子的扶手上，‘抱歉，我在试图勾引你的男朋友。’”

“Oh yeah, I’d like to see you -- wait, my what ?!”
“‘哦，我倒想看看你——等等，我的什么？！’”

She just poked out her tongue at him. He looked at Remus, “Are we just telling everyone, now?!”
“她只是向他吐了吐舌头。他看着 Remus，‘我们现在就告诉大家了吗？！’”

“Oi!” Mary hopped off the seat, “I’m not ‘everyone’! Arrogant tosser. Don’t forget I had you both first.”
“‘哎！’Mary 跳下座位，‘我不是‘大家’！自以为是的家伙。别忘了我先拥有了你们两个。’”

Remus couldn’t help laughing at the look on Sirius’s face, and got out of the chair, sheepishly, still clutching Maurice,
“Remus 忍不住笑了，看着 Sirius 的表情，他羞怯地起身，仍然抱着《Maurice》，”

“Sorry, I’ll come up now, we were just chatting.” He looked back at Mary, “Will you be ok?”

“‘抱歉，我现在上去，我们只是聊了一会儿。’他回头看向 Mary，‘你没事吧？’”

“Fine,” She nodded, smiling, “I’m off to bed too. Night lads!”
“‘没事，’她点头，笑着说，‘我也要去睡觉了。晚安，大家！’”

“Good night!”
“‘晚安！’”

Back upstairs in the warm glow of their dorm room, Peter was already snoring softly behind his curtains, and James was sitting cross-legged on his bed, flipping through his quidditch notebook.
“回到他们宿舍楼上的温暖灯光中，Peter 已经在窗帘后面轻轻打鼾，而 James 坐在床上盘腿坐着，翻阅他的魁地奇笔记本。”

“Thought we’d lost you, Moony,” he whispered cheerily, as the two boys entered.
“‘以为我们要丢失你了，Moony，’他高兴地低声说，当两个男孩进来的时候。”

“Bumped into Mary, she’s been at some party with the Ravenclaws.”
“‘碰见了 Mary，她在和 Ravenclaw 的人一起参加聚会。’”

“See, this is what happens when you get stuck with the Head Boy and the Head Girl in your house,” Sirius sighed, leaning back on his own bed, “All the fun happens elsewhere.”
“‘你看，这就是当你被困在你们宿舍的学长和学姐身边时会发生的事，’Sirius 叹了口气，靠在自己的床上，‘所有的乐趣都发生在别的地方。’”

“Oh, stop whinging,” James grinned, closing his book, “We’ll have more parties and you know it. Now go to bed like a good boy.”
“‘哦，别抱怨了，’James 露出笑容，合上书，‘我们还会有更多的聚会，你知道的。现在乖乖去睡觉吧。’”

“Fine,” Sirius yawned, falling backwards dramatically, so that he disappeared through the heavy velvet hangings.
“‘好吧，’Sirius 打了个哈欠，戏剧性地向后倒去，消失在厚重的天鹅绒帷幕后面。”

“G’night then,” Remus started, making for his own bed, but Sirius’s hand shot out and grabbed his wrist.
“‘那晚安了，’Remus 开始朝自己的床走去，但 Sirius 的手突然伸出抓住了他的手腕。”

“Moony…” he whispered softly, from the shadows behind the veil. Remus bit his lip and glanced over at James, who looked away awkwardly, and began to draw his own bed curtains across. Oh well. Fuck it.
“‘Moony……’他从帷幕后的阴影中轻声说道。Remus 咬了咬嘴唇，瞥了一眼 James，后者尴尬地移开视线，开始拉上自己的床帘。算了。去他妈的。”

“Mmm… ok…” Remus let Sirius pull him inside.
“‘嗯……好吧……’Remus 让 Sirius 拉他进去。”

 

Chapter 134: Seventh Year: Valentine's Day 1978 

You think I'm a lame duck

But I don't give a blue fuck

So you leave me like crazy

Drive me to be lazy.

I love you, you big dummy!

I love you you big dummy!

 

Monday 13th February 1978

“You know,” Lily yawned, “Other boyfriends might take the night before Valentine’s day to plan something nice for their girlfriends, rather than an assault on other students.”

“‘你知道，’Lily 打了个哈欠，‘其他男朋友可能会在情人节前夜计划一些漂亮的惊喜给他们的女朋友，而不是袭击其他学生。’”

“Thought we were calling it a practical joke, Evans,” Sirius winked. “Anyway, how do you know what other boys are doing? We’re the only boys you know, and we’re doing this.”
“‘以为我们叫它恶作剧呢，Evans，’Sirius 眨眨眼。‘不过，你怎么知道其他男孩在做什么？我们是你认识的唯一男孩，而我们正在做这个。’”

“Touchè.” Lily poked her tongue out at him from where she sat cross-legged on James’s bed.
“‘中肯。’Lily 坐在 James 的床上，盘腿坐着，伸出舌头对着他。”

“And,” James said, sitting on the floor beside Remus, folding envelopes as fast as Remus could stuff them, “How do you know I haven’t already planned something nice?!”
“‘而且，’James 说，坐在地板上，快速折叠信封，‘你怎么知道我还没计划好什么漂亮的东西？！’”

“When do you have the time?” She shrugged, “Whenever you’re not with me you’re playing quidditch.”
“‘你什么时候有时间？’她耸耸肩，‘每当你不和我在一起时，你都在打魁地奇。’”

“I can multi-task,” he said, haughtily, a mischievous twinkle in his eye.
“‘我可以多任务处理，’他说，傲慢地，眼中带着顽皮的光芒。”

Remus gave James a sideways glance. He couldn’t account for any of James’s free time either, but it was best never to underestimate James Potter.
“Remus 侧眼看了看 James。他也无法解释 James 的任何闲暇时间，但最好不要低估 James Potter。”

“How about you, Pete?” Mary asked, sitting on James’s other side, neatly stacking the envelopes he handed her and ticking names off the list, “Big plans for tomorrow?”
“‘你呢，Pete？’Mary 问道，坐在 James 的另一边，把他递给她的信封整齐地堆放起来，勾选名单上的名字，‘明天有大计划吗？’”

“Nope.” Peter replied, glumly. He was lying on his stomach on his bed, frantically completing the Charms notes due for the next day. He’d dropped a few hints to Remus about copying them, but Remus had pretended not to understand and eventually poor Wormtail had dropped it and just resigned himself to doing a poor job.
“‘没有。’Peter 沮丧地回答。他趴在床上，疯狂地完成第二天要交的咒语笔记。他向 Remus 透露了一些复制它们的暗示，但 Remus 假装不明白，最后可怜的 Wormtail 放弃了，只好接受做得不好。”

“What about Dorcas?” Mary pressed.
“‘Dorcas 怎么样？’Mary 继续追问。”

“Dumped me.”
“‘甩了我。’”

“Aw, poor love.” She cooed, “At least I won’t be the only single one.”
“‘哦，可怜的爱人。’她轻声说道，‘至少我不会是唯一的单身者。’”

“Really?” Pete looked up, hopefully.
“‘真的吗？’Pete 抬起头来，希望地问道。”

“Yep, dumped that stupid Hufflepuff.” Mary nodded, bent over her work.
“‘是的，甩了那个愚蠢的 Hufflepuff。’Mary 点了点头，弯腰继续她的工作。”

“Oh well, if you fancied dinner, maybe…” Peter started. Mary shook her head,
“‘哦，那样的话，如果你想吃晚饭，也许……’Peter 开始说。Mary 摇了摇头，”

“Oh no, sorry Pete, I’m triple booked as it is; it’ll be a miracle if none of them bump into each other.”
“‘哦，不，抱歉 Pete，我已经排满了；如果他们都不碰到彼此，那将是个奇迹。’”

“Oh.” Peter returned to his homework, looking even more depressed than before. Lily stifled a giggle, but Mary seemed oblivious.
“‘哦。’Peter 继续做作业，看起来比之前更沮丧了。Lily 压抑住笑声，但 Mary 似乎没有察觉。”

“Cheer up Pete, we still love you.” Remus offered, stuffing his very last envelope and handing it to James. “Me and Padfoot’ll have dinner with you.”
“‘振作起来 Pete，我们还是爱你的。’Remus 提议，把他最后一个信封塞好，递给 James。‘我和 Padfoot 会和你一起吃晚饭的。’”

“So basically exactly the same as every other night of the year.” Sirius teased.
“‘所以基本上和一年中的其他每个晚上一模一样。’Sirius 调侃道。”

“You two not doing anything, then?” Mary asked, casually. It felt like a loaded question, all the same, and Remus found it hard to ignore the glances his friends were now shooting at each other. He looked up at Sirius and said, very firmly,
“‘你们两个就不做什么了吗？’Mary 随意地问道。感觉像是个有内涵的问题，Remus 发现很难忽视朋友们现在互相投来的目光。他抬头看着 Sirius，非常坚定地说，”

“Don’t even think about it.”
“‘别想了。’”

Sirius’s face cracked into a smile,
“Sirius 的脸上露出了笑容，”

“I think Valentine’s Day is Moony’s idea of hell.”
“‘我觉得情人节是 Moony 的地狱。’”

“Exactly.” Remus nodded, solemnly. Let the girls have flowers and hearts. He had plenty else going on, thank you very much.
“‘正是。’Remus solemnly 点了点头。让女孩们去享受花朵和心形吧。他还有很多其他的事情要做，谢谢。”

“Aww, I think that’s a shame,” Mary said, crossing the last name off her list and stretching her legs out on the rug, lying back on her elbows. “Valentine’s Day can be nice, if you do it right.”
“‘哦，我觉得这很可惜，’Mary 说，划掉最后一个名字，伸展双腿躺在地毯上，撑着手肘仰卧。‘情人节可以很美好，只要你做得对。’”

Remus smirked at her. ‘Doing it right’ to Mary meant receiving votive offerings from her various acolytes; a fantasy in which she was Aphrodite, and all would pay homage.
“Remus 对她露出了笑容。对 Mary 来说，‘做得对’意味着收到她的各种追随者的奉献；她幻想自己是 Aphrodite，所有人都会敬奉她。”

“Nope, not interested.” He said, stretching his own stiff legs. “Just a normal day.”
“‘不，不感兴趣。’他说，伸展自己僵硬的腿。‘只是普通的一天。’”

“Sirius likes it.” Mary said, slyly, “He was always dead romantic.”
“‘Sirius 喜欢这个。’Mary 狡黠地说，‘他总是很浪漫。’”

“When we weren’t fighting.” Sirius interjected. Remus looked at him, and realised he had never actually considered whether or not the other boy was interested in celebrating the day. He’d just assumed they were on the same page.
“‘当我们没在吵架的时候。’Sirius 插话道。Remus 看了看他，意识到他从未真正考虑过其他男孩是否有兴趣庆祝这个节日。他只是认为他们在同一页上。”

“Anyway, that was different.” Peter mused, sucking the nib of his quill and getting ink on his lip.
“‘无论如何，那是不同的。’Peter 沉思道，吮吸着他的羽毛笔尖，弄得嘴唇上沾满了墨水。”

“What was?” Mary asked.
“‘什么不同了？’Mary 问道。”

“When Padfoot was going out with you.” Peter replied. “Obviously he did all the mushy stuff then.”
“‘当 Padfoot 和你约会的时候。’Peter 说。‘显然他当时做了所有那些浪漫的事情。’”

“Obviously?” Lily spoke up. Remus cringed. He could see where this was going. The redhead had her hackles up; it didn’t happen often, but when it did it always ended in a scolding. “What do you mean, Peter?”
“‘显而易见？’Lily 说。Remus 感到不安。他能看出接下来要发生什么。红发女孩情绪激动；这种情况不常发生，但每当发生时总是以训斥告终。‘你是什么意思，Peter？’”

Peter saw it coming too, but bless him, he tried to explain himself.
“Peter 也看出来了，但他还是试图解释自己。”

“I wasn’t being nasty,” he said, “It’s just… well it’s not the same thing, is it?”
“‘我不是在恶意中伤，’他说，‘只是……嗯，这不一样，不是吗？’”

“Yes it is!” Mary frowned.
“‘是的，确实是！’Mary 皱眉说。”

James was clearly annoyed too. Remus sighed, inwardly. He looked up at Sirius, who shrugged at him. Remus held out his hand, and Sirius hopped off the bed to take it, pulling Remus to his feet. Remus cleared his throat.
“James 显然也很恼火。Remus 内心叹了口气。他抬头看着 Sirius，Sirius 对他耸耸肩。Remus 伸出手，Sirius 从床上跳下来接过手，拉起 Remus 站起来。Remus 清了清嗓子。”

“If you’ve all finished discussing our relationship amongst yourselves?”
“‘如果你们都讨论完了我们的关系？’”

They all looked up, sheepishly.
“他们都羞愧地抬起头来看。”

“Sorry, Moony,
“‘抱歉，Moony，’”

“Sorry Remus.”
“‘抱歉，Remus。’”

“Let’s move on, shall we?” Remus raised an eyebrow, and leaned against his bedpost with his hands in his pockets. He nodded at the pile of sealed envelopes, “We need to pass those around tomorrow, as soon as. I think probably best to do it at breakfast, so it gets mixed in with the regular post and doesn’t look suspicious.”
“‘我们继续吧，好吗？’Remus 皱起眉头，双手插在口袋里，靠在床头。他点了点那些封好的信封，‘我们需要在明天尽快分发这些。我觉得最好在早餐时发，这样可以和正常的邮件混在一起，不容易引起怀疑。’”

This was met with a murmur of general agreement.
“大家普遍同意，表示了赞同。”

“Don’t forget, the ink only becomes legible when the right person gives their name.” Remus continued. He went over to his bedside table for his matchbox of cigarettes and slid one out.
“‘别忘了，墨水只有在正确的人写下名字时才会变得清晰。’Remus 继续说道。他走到床头柜那儿拿了一盒火柴烟，并抽出一根。”

“That was such a good idea, I can’t believe you did it so quickly.” Mary said. She didn’t know that the spell they’d used was exactly the same as the one on the Marauder’s Map, and they weren’t going to tell her.
“‘真是个好主意，我简直不敢相信你们这么快就做出来了。’Mary 说。她不知道他们使用的魔咒和 Marauder’s Map 上的魔咒完全一样，他们不打算告诉她。”

“You are in the presence of greatness, MacDonald.” Sirius said, taking Remus’s cigarette the second he’d lit it. Remus sighed and pulled out another.
“‘你身处伟大的存在之中，MacDonald。’Sirius 说，刚点燃 Remus 的烟时就拿走了。Remus 叹了口气，又拿出一根。”

“At least open a window if you have to smoke in here,” James sighed.
“‘如果你们非得在这里抽烟，至少开个窗，’James 叹了口气。”

“We have to smoke in here,” Sirius said, flicking his wand at the windows so that they flung wide open. “Because our poxy Head Boy banned smoking in the common room.”
“‘我们必须在这里抽烟，’Sirius 说，挥动魔杖把窗户打开。‘因为我们讨厌的学长禁止了在公共休息室抽烟。’”

“All the prefects voted on that, actually.” Lily said, wryly.
“‘其实，所有的级长都投了票。’Lily 讽刺地说道。”

“See, Moony,” Sirius nudged him with his hip, “This is why you should have stayed a prefect, you could have been the voice of dissent.”
“‘看，Moony，’Sirius 用臀部碰了碰他，‘这就是你应该继续做级长的原因，你本可以成为异议的声音。’”

“Truly tragic.” Remus exhaled smoke.
“‘真是悲剧。’Remus 吐出一口烟。”

“Right, I’m off to bed, then.” Mary said, getting up, lifting the pile of invitations and setting them down on James’s trunk. “I’m looking forward to this, be nice to have something else to think about.”
“‘好了，我去睡觉了。’Mary 说，站起身，把一堆邀请函拿起来，放在 James 的箱子上。‘我很期待这次，能有别的事情去想真是太好了。’”

“I’ll come with you.” Lily said, getting up too.
“‘我也和你一起去。’Lily 说，站起身。”

“Shall I walk you back?” James leapt to his feet. Both girls giggled, as if he had said something charming, rather than ridiculous,
“‘我送你们回去吗？’James 跳了起来。两个女孩咯咯笑着，好像他说了什么迷人的话，而不是荒谬的话，”

“I’ll keep her safe on the arduous journey across the common room, Potter.” Mary teased.
“‘我会在艰难的穿越公共休息室的旅程中保护她，Potter。’Mary 调侃道。”

Still Lily and James spent the next five minutes bidding each other goodbye, which involved a lot of snogging. When Mary finally managed to drag her friend away, Lily was pink and grinning,
“尽管如此，Lily 和 James 花了接下来的五分钟时间互相告别，期间有很多亲吻。当 Mary 最终设法拖走她的朋友时，Lily 脸红而笑着，”

“Love you!” She called on her way down the stairs,
“‘爱你！’她在下楼时喊道，”

“Love you too!” James called back.
“‘我也爱你！’James 回喊道。”

Sirius began to make sick noises, which made Peter start laughing, but Remus just watched James’s dopey expression. He hadn’t heard them say ‘I love you’ before. He didn’t think he’d ever heard anyone say it, actually; not anyone he cared about, at least. He’d seen it written down. In books, and in the letter from Hope. But neither of those things had felt as tangible as this. How long had they been saying that? As long as they’d been feeling it? Was it hard to say the first time? Remus thought it must be. Like casting a patronus.
“Sirius 开始发出恶心的声音，让 Peter 开始笑起来，但 Remus 只是看着 James 那呆呆的表情。他以前没有听到他们说‘我爱你’。他实际上不认为他听到过任何人说过这个，至少不是他关心的人。他见过这个词写下来。在书里，还有 Hope 的信中。但是这些东西都没有像现在这样真实。他们已经说了多久？和他们有的感觉一样久吗？第一次说难吗？Remus 认为一定很难。就像施展守护神一样。”

He finished his cigarette in a contemplative mood while the others moved around him, finishing homework and changing for bed. He supposed he could ask Sirius about the whole ‘love’ thing, but he wasn’t sure he wanted to open that can of worms. They were happy as they were, weren’t they? It was just getting comfortable, now that their friends knew. Plus, after two years of pining and almost a year of secrecy, Remus wanted to just enjoy what they had, without all of that prescriptive stuff hanging over them.
“他在沉思中完成了他的香烟，而其他人则在他周围活动，完成作业和换衣服上床。他想他可以问 Sirius 关于‘爱’的事情，但他不确定是否想打开这个话题。他们现在的幸福不是很完美吗？现在他们的朋友都知道了，他们只是变得更舒服了。再加上，两年的思慕和近一年的秘密，Remus 只想享受他们拥有的，而不必让那些规定性的东西悬在他们头上。”

Remus knew from experience that it was best to resist the temptation to pick things like that apart. Especially something as precious and hard won as he and Sirius had. The problem was; once you started, you might never remember how it worked in the first place.
“Remus 从经验中知道，最好还是抵制将这些东西拆解的诱惑。特别是像他和 Sirius 之间那样珍贵且来之不易的东西。问题是；一旦开始，你可能永远也不会记得最初是怎么运作的。”

He brushed his teeth still thinking, and wandered towards Sirius’s bed to sit and wait for him.
“他边刷牙边思考，然后走向 Sirius 的床，坐下等待他。”

“Finished!” Peter cried, raising his quill with a flourish. “Finally.”
“‘完成了！’Peter 高呼，扬起他的羽毛笔。‘终于。’”

“Well done, Pete.” James yawned, climbing into bed.
“‘干得好，Pete。’James 打了个哈欠，上床睡觉。”

“I didn’t get to help you lot, though.” Peter said, looking at the pile of envelopes wistfully.
“‘不过，我没能帮你们。’Peter 说，怀着惆怅的目光看着那堆信封。”

“That’s ok, this is only preliminary work.” Remus offered, “The real planning starts on Wednesday.”
“‘没关系，这只是初步工作。’Remus 说，‘真正的计划从星期三开始。’”

“Exactly.” James nodded encouragingly, “Anyway, don’t feel bad, Padfoot didn’t help either.”
“‘确切的。’James 鼓励地点了点头，‘总之，别难过，Padfoot 也没有帮忙。’”

“Oi!” Sirius came out of the bathroom at that moment, “I wrote the damn things! Where would you lot be without my beautiful penmanship? And I don’t recall Mrs Prongs doing anything either.”
“‘喂！’Sirius 这时从浴室出来，‘我写了那些该死的东西！要是没有我美丽的字迹，你们会在哪里？我也不记得 Mrs Prongs 做了什么。’”

He had taken to calling Lily this in private (he wouldn’t dare to her face) with the full knowledge that it annoyed James. The messy-haired boy just rolled over in bed, flicking his middle finger in Sirius’s direction. Sirius chuckled and got into his own bed. Remus got in too, still deep in thought.
“他私下里开始这样称呼 Lily（他不会当面这样叫她），完全知道这让 James 恼火。那位乱发的男孩只是翻了个身，用中指朝 Sirius 的方向挥了挥。Sirius 笑了笑，躺回到自己的床上。Remus 也躺下了，仍然深思熟虑。”

“Night lads!” Sirius called, drawing the curtains shut.
“‘晚安，各位！’Sirius 叫道，拉上窗帘。”

“Night!” Peter and James echoed back.
“‘晚安！’Peter 和 James 回应道。”

In the dark, Sirius held Remus’s hand, and they smiled at each other sleepily.
“在黑暗中，Sirius 握着 Remus 的手，他们疲惫地对视而笑。”

“You’re very quiet.” Sirius whispered. “Everything ok?”
“‘你很安静。’Sirius 低声说，‘一切都好吗？’”

“Yeah.” Remus whispered back. “Just thinking. Prank stuff.”
“‘嗯。’Remus 低声回答，‘只是想着，恶作剧的事。’”

“Good.”

“...Sirius?”

“Remus.”

“You know Valentine’s Day?”

“Heard of it.”

“Did you want to… er. What Mary said…”

 

 

“I knew that would get you wound up. I could practically see your brain start to overheat.”
“我就知道这会让你激动起来。我几乎能看到你的大脑开始过热。”

“Piss off.” Remus kicked his shin. “I’m just asking .”
“别烦我。”雷木斯踢了踢他的胫骨。“我只是问一下。”

“Mary loved all that stuff - presents and flowers and cards and shit. I liked doing it for her, because it made her happy. You’d hate it, so I won’t.”
“玛丽喜欢那些东西——礼物、花朵和卡片什么的。我喜欢为她做这些，因为它让她开心。你会讨厌这些，所以我不做了。”

“It’s just so public,” Remus said.
“这就是太公开了，”雷木斯说。

“I know. Don’t worry about it.”
“我知道。别担心。”

“Ok.”
“好。”

“...”
“...”

“Remus.”
“雷木斯。”

“What?”
“什么？”

“Stop worrying!”
“别担心了！”

“Fine, fine, I believe you!”
“好吧，好吧，我相信你！”

“Anyway, it’s not even a real thing.” Sirius said, thoughtfully. “Valentine’s day. I looked it up.”
“反正这根本不是什么真实的事。”天狼星沉思地说。“情人节。我查过了。”

“It’s real to muggles, isn’t it?” Remus frowned. He couldn’t say he’d given it much thought.
“对麻瓜来说是真的，对吧？”雷木斯皱眉道。他不能说自己考虑过这个问题。

“There was a bloke called Valentine, but there’s nothing especially romantic about it. But I did find out some other stuff, about the Romans.”
“有个叫瓦伦丁的家伙，但这并没有什么特别浪漫的东西。不过我确实发现了一些其他的东西，关于罗马人的。”

“Why can’t you apply this thirst for knowledge to your actual schoolwork?!”
“你为什么不能把这渴望知识的精神用到你的学业上？！”

“Ugh, don’t be so boring. Anyway, have you heard of the Lupercalia?”
“唉，别这么无聊。反正，你听说过卢佩卡利亚节吗？”

Remus felt a sinking feeling in his stomach and let go of Sirius’s hand.
雷木斯感到胃里一阵沉重的感觉，放开了天狼星的手。

“I don’t want to talk about wolf stuff right now.”
“我现在不想谈论狼人相关的事。”

“You have heard of it!” Sirius sounded pleased.
“你听说过！”天狼星听起来很高兴。

“No. I just know the latin for wolf because it’s my bloody name.”
“没有。我只知道‘狼’的拉丁语，因为这就是我该死的名字。”

“Oh right… It’s not what you think, it’s a festival!”
“哦，对… 这不是你想的那样，这是一个节日！”

“Ok.”
“好。”

“And it’s really cool, there are blood sacrifices, and running around naked, and--”
“而且真的很酷，有血祭，还有裸体跑来跑去，还有——”

“I’m going to sleep.”
“我要去睡觉了。”

“But you like history.”
“但你喜欢历史。”

“Shut up, Padfoot, he wants to go to sleep.” James shouted from across the room. “And so do I!”
“闭嘴，帕德弗特，他想去睡觉。”詹姆斯从房间那边喊道。“我也是！”

“Yeah!” Peter echoed.
“是的！”彼得附和道。

“Mind your own business.” Sirius shouted back.
“管好你自己的事。”天狼星回喊道。

“Sonoro Quiesces.” Remus muttered, creating a dry bubble of silence inside the bed. He still whispered when he spoke, though, because it was weird to talk an normal volume in the dark. “I said I didn’t want to talk about wolf stuff, god.”
“安静的魔音。”雷木斯低声咕哝，创造了一个干燥的安静泡泡在床上。不过他说话时仍然是低声的，因为在黑暗中用正常音量说话很奇怪。“我说了我不想谈论狼人相关的事，上帝。”

“I was only trying to make you feel better about Valentine’s Day.”
“我只是想让你对情人节感觉好一点。”

“I didn’t feel badly about it in the first place!”
“我本来就没觉得它不好！”

“Ok, sorry, I misread you.” Sirius was whispering too, but loudly, obviously annoyed. “You were all quiet about it and I wanted to cheer you up. I thought you were jealous of Lily and James.”
“好吧，对不起，我误解了你。”天狼星也在低声说话，但声音很大，显然有些烦恼。“你对这事儿都很安静，我想让你高兴一点。我以为你是嫉妒莉莉和詹姆斯。”

“Jealous?!”
“嫉妒？！”

“That’s the wrong word. You were just… I saw you watching them, kissing and stuff, and being all mushy. And I know you hate public displays of affection, but I dunno. It’s not like we have a choice either way...”
“那不是正确的词。你只是… 我看到你看着他们，接吻什么的，变得很黏腻。我知道你讨厌公开的亲密表现，但我不知道。无论如何，我们也没有选择…”

Remus blinked in the dark, rolling back over to see Sirius’s face.
雷木斯在黑暗中眨了眨眼，翻身回去看天狼星的脸。

“It bothers you, doesn’t it?” It had to, because it had never bothered Remus before. Suddenly he realized what it had all been about.
“这让你烦恼，对吧？”它一定让你烦恼，因为雷木斯以前从未为此烦恼。突然他意识到这到底是什么回事。

“A bit, maybe.” Sirius replied, honestly. Remus fumbled under the duvet for his hand again.
“也许有一点。”天狼星诚实地回答。雷木斯再次在被子下摸索他的手。

Tuesday 14th February 1978
1978年2月14日，星期二

The next morning, James and Sirius were nowhere to be found - Remus presumed they had left early for quidditch practice; it was a bright, sunny day, despite a chill in the air. After a few minutes of deep thought, Remus rifled in his bedside drawer for his very last chocolate frog and bunged it in his pocket before heading downstairs.
第二天早上，詹姆斯和天狼星都不见了——雷木斯猜他们早早地去参加魁地奇训练了；尽管空气中有些凉意，但阳光明媚。经过几分钟的深思，雷木斯在床头柜抽屉里翻找他的最后一只巧克力青蛙，把它塞进口袋，然后下楼。

The rest of the Gryffindors awoke to find that in the night the house elves had decorated their common room with garlands of red and pink paper hearts - something which seemed to divide all of the students.
其余的格兰芬多醒来发现，夜里家养小精灵们用红色和粉色的纸心装饰了他们的公共休息室——这似乎让所有的学生产生了分歧。

“It’s hardly appropriate in a school.” Christopher grumbled, meeting Remus and Mary on their way out of the portrait hole.
“在学校里这不太合适。”克里斯托弗抱怨道，遇到雷木斯和玛丽正要离开画框洞口。

“Aww, I think it’s lovely.” Mary sighed, cheerily. She was subtly dressed for the occasion, wearing a red ribbon in her hair, and red enamel studs in each earlobe. Christopher shook his head, grimly at her.
“哦，我觉得这很可爱。”玛丽愉快地叹了口气。她为这个场合稍微打扮了一下，头发上绑着红色丝带，每只耳垂上都有红色的珐琅耳钉。克里斯托弗对她摇了摇头，神情严肃。

“If it were a proper holiday, like Christmas, or Easter or something--”
“如果这是一个真正的节日，比如圣诞节，或者复活节什么的——”

“But why do wizards celebrate those things?” Remus cut in, thoughtfully, as they progressed towards the dining hall. Every corridor was also decked out in pink and red crepe paper, and there seemed to be music coming from somewhere, “None of the purebloods I’ve met are Christians, or even know anything about Jesus, or the Easter bunny, or--”
“但巫师为什么要庆祝这些东西呢？”雷木斯插话道，若有所思地走向餐厅。每条走廊也装饰着粉色和红色的纸绸，还有音乐从某处传来，“我遇到的纯血巫师都不是基督徒，甚至不知道耶稣，或复活节兔子，或者——”

“The Easter what?!” Christopher was staring at him as if he was mad.
“复活节什么？！”克里斯托弗盯着他，仿佛他疯了。

“Don’t bother, Remus,” Mary laughed, “Lily and I tried back in first year. We’re not supposed to ask.”
“别费心了，雷木斯，”玛丽笑道，“莉莉和我在第一年时也试过。我们不该问。”

Christopher’s mood did not improve as they entered the Great Hall, which was bathed in a rosey pink glow by a collection of candles floating inside red glass lanterns. Fresh flowers had been placed in vases on every table, and pink envelopes flew back and forth over the heads of the students - valentine’s cards looking for their recipient.
当他们进入宏伟的大厅时，克里斯托弗的情绪没有好转。大厅里被一群漂浮在红色玻璃灯笼中的蜡烛映照成玫瑰粉色的光辉。每张桌子上都放着新鲜的花朵，粉色的信封在学生们的头顶上飞来飞去——情人节卡片在寻找它们的收件人。

“For goodness’ sake.” Christopher muttered, taking his seat and pouring himself a very black coffee.
“看在上帝的份上。”克里斯托弗嘟囔着，坐下并给自己倒了一杯非常黑的咖啡。

“It’s only one day.” Remus said, lifting the teapot, which was also pink.
“这只是一天。”雷木斯说，提起了同样是粉色的茶壶。

No sooner had they sat down, than a pile of pink envelopes fluttered into Mary’s lap, making her squeal with delight. Remus grinned too. He pulled out his own envelopes and whispered an incantation, tossing them into the air so that they mingled with the others flying above them.
他们刚坐下，一堆粉色的信封就飘到了玛丽的腿上，让她兴奋地尖叫。雷木斯也咧嘴笑了。他拿出自己的信封，低声念了个咒语，把它们扔到空中，让它们和其他在空中飞来的信封混在一起。

“Here you go, Chris,” Remus tossed one across the table, “It’s not a valentine, promise.”
“给你，克里斯，”雷木斯把一个扔到桌子那边，“这不是情人节卡，保证。”

“Oh. Er… what is it?” Christopher held the blank envelope warily.
“哦。呃… 这是什么？”克里斯托弗小心翼翼地拿着空白的信封。

“An invitation.” Remus winked. “Give it your name, but don’t share it, ok?”
“一个邀请函。”雷木斯眨眨眼。“写上你的名字，但不要分享，行吗？”

“Er… ok…”
“呃… 好…”

“Good morning!” Lily appeared, looking cheerful as usual, clutching a book on advanced potions. “Anyone seen Potter?”
“早上好！”莉莉出现了，像往常一样愉快，手里捧着一本高级魔药书。“有人看到波特了吗？”

“Quidditch pitch?” Remus raised his head.
“魁地奇场地？”雷木斯抬起头。

“Nope,” Lily shrugged, “I thought so too, but Ravenclaw booked it this morning.”
“没有，”莉莉耸耸肩，“我也这么想，但拉文克劳今天早上预定了。”

“He and Padfoot were gone when I woke up.” Remus said.
“他和帕德弗特早上我醒来时就不在了。”雷木斯说。

“That’s exactly what I was afraid of…” Lily replied, taking her seat.
“这正是我担心的…”莉莉回答道，坐下。

No sooner than she had sugared her porridge, than a loud pop echoed over their heads, and everyone looked up. Those students who hadn’t immediately dived for cover beneath their breakfast tables began ‘oohing’ and ‘ahhing’, as a rather spectacular fireworks display began over their heads. The bursts of colour took the form of gigantic glittering love hearts, and the embers which rained down turned out to be pink and white flowerheads,
莉莉刚刚给她的粥加了糖，就响起了一个响亮的“啪”声，回荡在他们头顶上，所有人都抬头看了过去。那些没有立刻躲到早餐桌下的学生们开始发出“哦”和“啊”的声音，因为一场相当壮观的烟火表演在他们头顶上开始了。彩色的烟火呈现出巨大的闪光心形，落下的余烬原来是粉色和白色的花朵，

“Lilies!” Mary said gleefully, as one settled on her pile of cards.
“百合花！”玛丽高兴地说，一朵落在她的卡片堆上。

“Oh no!” Christopher wailed, “I’m allergic!” He sneezed, before aiming his wand upwards and gasping, “Protego!” to defend himself against the fluttering blooms.
“哦不！”克里斯托弗尖叫道，“我过敏！”他打了个喷嚏，然后指着上面喊道，“护盾咒！”以保护自己免受飞舞的花朵的袭击。

“I don’t believe this…” Lily was blushing harder than Remus had ever seen her. He grinned,
“我不敢相信这…”莉莉的脸红得比雷木斯见过的还要厉害。他咧嘴笑了，

“You were asking for it, I’m afraid.”
“我怕是你自找的。”

“I’d have been happy with a card!” She hissed, as the final fireworks died out, and the last of the lilies sailed to the floor like great pink snowflakes, filling the room with their lovely scent.
“我本来就会对一张卡片感到开心！”她低声说，最后的烟火熄灭时，最后一朵百合花像巨大的粉色雪花一样飘落在地上，房间里充满了它们可爱的香味。

“Oh shut up, Evans,” Mary tutted, “It’s bloody gorgeous of him.”
“闭嘴，埃文斯，”玛丽啐道，“他真是太漂亮了。”

“Cheers, MacDonald,” James appeared at Lily’s shoulder, with Sirius.
“谢谢，麦克唐纳，”詹姆斯在莉莉的肩膀上出现了，身边还有天狼星。

“You utter idiot!” Lily stood up and wound her arms around James’s neck, kissing him. Remus wasn’t watching this display, though; he was watching Sirius, who flicked his wand behind James’s back.
“你真是个愚蠢的家伙！”莉莉站起身，搂住詹姆斯的脖子，亲吻了他。不过雷木斯并没有看这个场景；他在看天狼星，天狼星在詹姆斯背后挥了挥魔杖。

The flowers which had gathered on the table (those which Chris had not tried to clear, anyway) began to move again, and gathered together in front of Lily’s plate. With another soft little pop, the pile had transformed into a large box, emblazoned with even more lilies.
那些在桌子上聚集的花朵（克里斯没有尝试清除的那些）开始再次移动，并在莉莉的盘子前聚集在一起。随着另一声轻微的“啪”声，这些花朵变成了一个大盒子，上面还装饰着更多的百合花。

“What’s that?” Lily turned, leaning over to get a closer look.
“那是什么？”莉莉转过身，俯身去看得更清楚一些。

“Open it and see!” James was grinning ear to ear, clearly utterly chuffed with himself.
“打开看看！”詹姆斯笑得合不拢嘴，显然对自己非常得意。

Christopher sneezed again, and blew his nose, but was roundly ignored as Mary and Remus stood up to get a better look. Lily, still pink and smiling, carefully lifted the lid of the box, and everyone leaned in. On a red velvet pillow, with a bow around its neck, was a tiny little charcoal grey kitten with huge yellow eyes.
克里斯托弗再次打了个喷嚏，擤了擤鼻子，但玛丽和雷木斯站起来看得更清楚时，他被完全忽视了。莉莉，脸色依然红润而微笑，轻轻地揭开了盒子的盖子，所有人都倾身过去。在一个红色天鹅绒的枕头上，系着蝴蝶结的是一只小巧的深灰色小猫，拥有一双巨大的黄色眼睛。

“Ohhh!” Lily gasped, reaching in immediately to pick up the mewing creature and cuddle it close, “Really, Potter?! You got me a cat?! I love him! Or… her?”
“哦哦！”莉莉惊呼道，立刻伸手去抱起那只叫着的小猫，紧紧搂在怀里，“真的，波特？！你给我买了一只猫？！我喜欢它！还是… 她？”

“Him,” James nodded, “I know your old family one died last Christmas, and Hagrid told me a litter was born in the village last week, so…”
“它是男猫，”詹姆斯点点头，“我知道你家里那只猫去年圣诞节死了，海格告诉我上周村子里出生了一窝小猫，所以…”

“Oh he’s so sweet!” Mary reached over to stroke the kitten’s head.
“哦，它真可爱！”玛丽伸手抚摸小猫的头。

“Oh for Merlin’s sake…” Christopher stood up, clutching his handkerchief to his nose. “I’m allergic to cats, too! Bloody stupid day…” with that, he got up and stormed away, further up the table.
“看在梅林的份上…”克里斯托弗站起身，捂着鼻子。“我对猫也过敏！该死的愚蠢的一天…”说完，他起身愤怒地离开了，走向桌子的另一端。

“Such a shame.” Sirius smirked, taking his empty seat. “Morning, Moony.”
“真可惜。”天狼星冷笑着，坐回他的空座位。“早上好，月亮。”

“Morning, Padfoot.” Remus smiled.
“早上好，帕德弗特。”雷木斯笑了。

The rest of breakfast was spent cooing over Lily’s new kitten, and trying to choose a name. Remus kept a polite distance; just in case. He’d had bad experiences with cats in the past, and didn’t fancy any new scratches today, no matter how tiny its claws were.
早餐的剩余时间都用来对莉莉的新猫发出咯咯的声音，试图给它起个名字。雷木斯保持了一定的距离；以防万一。他过去与猫有过不愉快的经历，不愿意今天再被划伤，不管它的爪子有多小。

Soon, everyone was getting up to go to their various lessons (while arguing over who ought to look after the kitten that morning), and Sirius fell into step with Remus,
很快，大家都开始起身去上各自的课（同时争论谁应该照看小猫），天狼星和雷木斯并肩走着，

“Walk you to history?” He offered,
“我陪你去历史课？”他提议道，

“Oh, I don’t need to go,” Remus replied, slyly, “It’s a drop-in lesson, for NEWTs.”
“哦，我不需要去，”雷木斯狡黠地回答，“这是个自选课程，为新魔法学位课程的。”

“But you always go to your lessons,” Sirius replied, “Even the optional ones.”
“但你总是去上你的课，”天狼星回答，“即使是自选的课。”

“I know, but you’re always telling me to relax, so…” Remus covertly pulled his little matchbox out of his robe pocket and tapped it. Sirius raised an eyebrow,
“我知道，但你总是告诉我要放松，所以…”雷木斯偷偷从袍子口袋里拿出一个小火柴盒并敲了敲。天狼星扬起一眉，

“As much as I really love stoned Moony - what’s brought on the rebelliousness?”
“虽然我真的很喜欢醉醺醺的月亮——是什么让你变得如此叛逆？”

“Does there have to be a reason?” Remus shrugged. He glanced around quickly to check that no one was listening too intently - but they were all pretty absorbed in their various cards and gifts. He slipped the chocolate frog into Sirius’s pocket. “Happy Valentine’s Day, wanker.”
“非得有个理由吗？”雷木斯耸耸肩。他迅速扫视四周，确认没有人过于专注地听他们谈话——但大家都忙于各种卡片和礼物。他把巧克力蛙塞进了天狼星的口袋里。“情人节快乐，混蛋。”

He had never seen Sirius Black blush like that.
他从未见过天狼星·布莱克脸红成那样。

 

Chapter 135: Seventh Year: The Marauder’s Inter-house Prank Planning Co-operativeWednesday 15th February 1978

“I can’t believe you’re holding this thing here.” Christopher said, agitatedly, as Remus unlocked the Charms classroom.  

“我真不敢相信你把这个东西放在这里。”克里斯托弗激动地说，雷木斯正在解锁魔咒教室。

 

“Best way to avoid detection. Flitwick always lets me use it.” Remus replied.  

“这是最好的避免被发现的办法。弗立维克总是让我使用它。”雷木斯回答道。

 

“Exactly! It’s so brazen!” Christopher chided, as they entered.  

“正是如此！这太厚颜无耻了！”克里斯托弗责备道，当他们进入时。

 

“Brazen is our middle name!” James declared excitedly, following them.  

“厚颜无耻是我们的中间名！”詹姆斯兴奋地宣称，跟在他们后面。

 

“Your middle name is Fleamont, you prat.” Sirius scoffed. “And this place is genius , no one will ever suspect anything. I knew your swot lessons would come in useful one day, Moony.”  

“你的中间名是弗利蒙特，你这个傻瓜。”天狼星嗤笑道。“而且这个地方真是天才之作，没人会怀疑任何事情。我早知道你的死记硬背课程会有用的，月亮。”

 

“A lot of people find Remus’s study group very helpful, actually .” Christopher said primly, folding his arms and leaning against the wall.  

“其实很多人觉得雷木斯的学习小组非常有帮助。”克里斯托弗一本正经地说，双臂交叉，靠在墙上。

 

“Oh Chris, he’s just teasing,” Remus chuckled, setting his book bag down. He glanced at his pocket watch. “We’re all nice and early, James, have you got an agenda?”  

“哦，克里斯，他只是开玩笑的，”雷木斯笑着说，放下了书包。他瞥了一眼他的怀表。“我们都很早到了，詹姆斯，你有安排吗？”

 

“A what?” James turned around from the blackboard, where he was directing the chalk to draw a gigantic lion with ‘ Gryffindor Rulez OK ’ beneath it.  

“什么？”詹姆斯从黑板转过身，他正在用粉笔画一个巨大的狮子，下面写着“格兰芬多万岁”。

 

“Never mind.” Remus sighed.  

“没关系。”雷木斯叹了口气。

 

“So who else got an invitation?” Christopher asked, over the top of his book (which seemed to have materialised from nowhere - Christopher was the only other person Remus knew who could go from 0 to reading in less than three seconds flat).  

“那还有谁收到了邀请函？”克里斯托弗在书的上方问道（书似乎凭空出现了——克里斯托弗是雷木斯唯一知道的，可以在不到三秒的时间内从零到阅读的人）。

 

“About twenty or thirty people, maybe.” Remus said, “Anyone who expressed an interested before Christmas who seemed trustworthy.”  

“可能有二三十个人。”雷木斯说，“任何在圣诞节前表示过兴趣且看起来值得信赖的人。”

 

“It was an extremely rigorous vetting process, actually,” James said, now standing on Flitwick’s desk and trying to touch the ceiling with his fingertips.  

“实际上，这是一个非常严格的审查过程，”詹姆斯说，现在站在弗立维克的桌子上，试图用指尖碰到天花板。

 

“Yeah, we almost didn’t let Wormtail in.” Sirius barked with laughter from the window, where he was leaning half out of it, smoking. Remus dearly wanted to go over there and wrap his arms around Sirius, steal the cigarette (which was probably one of his anyway, the thief) and kiss his neck. But the others would be arriving soon, and it was a completely mental line of thinking, that.  

“是啊，我们差点没让彼得进去。”天狼星从窗户那边大笑道，他半身探出窗外，抽着烟。雷木斯非常想过去拥抱天狼星，偷走那根香烟（可能本来就是他的，那个小偷）并亲吻他的脖子。但其他人很快就会到达，这种思维真是完全疯狂。

 

“Why do you all call Peter that?” Christopher asked.  

“你们为什么都叫彼得那个名字？”克里斯托弗问道。

 

“Just a nickname.” They all said, in unison.  

“只是个昵称。”他们齐声说。

 

Peter arrived shortly after that, followed in by Mary, Lily and Yasmin. Next were the sixth and seventh years from Remus’s study group, and Dorcas - who was still on friendly terms with Peter, apparently. Mary’s latest squeeze, a Ravenclaw boy called Jonty Simmons, who looked like he couldn’t believe his luck. And finally, much to Remus’s distaste, Emmeline Vance sauntered in (two minutes late) with Roman Rotherhide.  

彼得随后不久就到了，接着是玛丽、莉莉和雅斯敏。然后是雷木斯学习小组的六年级和七年级学生，以及多卡斯——显然她与彼得仍然保持友好关系。玛丽最近的新欢，一个叫乔恩提·西蒙斯的拉文克劳男孩，看起来似乎不敢相信自己的运气。最后，令雷木斯不满的是，艾梅琳·范斯（迟到两分钟）与罗曼·罗瑟海德一同走进了房间。

 

The room was pretty crowded after that, and noisy with the buzz of excitement. Most of the group had some idea why they were there, but others were curious, and all of them were fascinated by the marauders.  

之后房间里相当拥挤，兴奋的嗡嗡声也很吵。大多数人知道他们为什么在这里，但其他人则感到好奇，他们都对掠夺者充满了兴趣。

 

Sirius and James adored the attention, of course, and immediately took centre stage.  

天狼星和詹姆斯当然喜欢这种关注，立即成为了中心人物。

 

“Now, we all know why we’re here,” James started, using his quidditch captain voice.  

“现在，我们都知道我们为什么在这里，”詹姆斯开始说道，用他魁地奇队长的声音。

 

Immediately, Emmeline Vance’s arm shot up.  

艾梅琳·范斯立刻举起了手臂。

 

“Sorry, but I don’t…”  

“抱歉，我不…”

 

Remus gave an impatient snort and Christopher, sitting next to him, shot him a strange look.  

雷木斯不耐烦地哼了一声，坐在他旁边的克里斯托弗投来了一道奇怪的目光。

 

“Nor do I!” Dorcas raised her hand too, along with one or two sixth years from Remus’s study group.  

“我也没有！”多卡斯也举起了手，还有一两个雷木斯学习小组的六年级学生。

 

“Why did all of you come, then?!” Sirius asked, eyebrows raised. A group of girls sitting at the back of the room giggled. Remus made a mental note. He’d tried to avoid inviting too many members of the Sirius Black fanclub, but it was pretty unavoidable when that applied to half the school.  

“那你们都来干什么？！”天狼星问道，挑起了眉毛。坐在房间后面的一个女孩们咯咯地笑了。雷木斯在心里记下了这一点。他曾试图避免邀请太多天狼星·布莱克的粉丝，但当这涉及到学校的一半时，很难避免。

 

“We’re here to plan a… an organised protest,” Christopher said, blushing a bit, because he wasn’t used to speaking in front of lots of people. “Against Slytherin.”  

“我们来这里是为了策划一个… 组织性的抗议，”克里斯托弗说道，有点脸红，因为他不习惯在很多人面前讲话。“针对斯莱特林。”

 

“Yeah!” Another sixth year shouted, “I heard you lot were planning your biggest prank yet!”  

“是的！”另一个六年级学生喊道，“我听说你们计划了你们最大的一次恶作剧！”

 

“ I heard one of you knows how to get to the monster out of the chamber of secrets!”  

“我听说你们中的一个知道怎么把怪物从密室里弄出来！”

 

“I heard you were planning to blow up the dungeons!” One Hufflepuff boy squeaked.  

“我听说你们打算炸毁地牢！”一个赫奇帕奇男孩尖叫道。

 

“Woah woah woah,” James held up his hands, “Bit less dramatic than that…”  

“哇哇哇，”詹姆斯举起双手，“比那个稍微少一点戏剧性…”

 

“Well, if it’s about getting the Slytherins back for all the nonsense they’ve pulled, I’m in.” Emmeline

 

 said, decisively, tossing her luxuriant blonde curls. Remus tutted, loudly, and Chris shot him another look.  

“好吧，如果是为了报复斯莱特林搞的一切荒唐事，我愿意参加。”艾梅琳决定性地说，甩了甩她那丰盈的金发。雷木斯发出 loud 的声音，克里斯托弗又给了他一个看。

 

“That’s exactly what it’s about. And exactly why we need all of you to keep quiet about it.” James said, getting into his flow, now. “This is our last year, and we’re inviting all of you to help us plan our final prank.”  

“这正是我们所要做的。这也是我们需要你们所有人保持沉默的原因。”詹姆斯现在进入了状态。“这是我们最后一年，我们邀请你们所有人来帮助我们计划最后的恶作剧。”

 

“Does that make us marauders?” The Hufflepuff boy squeaked again. There was an excited murmur.  

“那这是否意味着我们成了掠夺者？”赫奇帕奇的男孩再次尖叫道。大家激动地低声议论起来。

 

“ No .” Peter said, indignantly, though no one really paid him any attention.  

“没有。”彼得愤慨地说道，不过没有人真的注意到他。

 

“I like to think of it as more of a collaboration.” James said, thoughtfully.  

“我更愿意把它看作是一种合作。”詹姆斯若有所思地说。

 

“An inter-house co-operative!” Sirius added.  

“跨学院合作！”天狼星补充道。

 

Everyone seemed pretty pleased with that. At least, it sounded impressive, and official enough.  

大家似乎对此感到非常满意。至少，这听起来很令人印象深刻，而且足够正式。

 

“Right.” James clapped his hands together and rubbed them, smiling round at everyone. “Now that’s out of the way, who’s got some ideas?!”  

“好。”詹姆斯拍了拍手，搓了搓手，笑着看着每个人。“既然这件事已经解决了，谁有一些主意？！ ”  

 

Twenty hands shot up.  

二十只手齐刷刷地举了起来。

 

“Err,” Lily spoke up, “I think before we get into that it might be good to have some ground rules?”  

“呃，”莉莉开口说，“我觉得在我们开始之前，制定一些基本规则可能会更好？”

 

“Like what?” Sirius folded his arms, grumpily.  

“像什么？”天狼星不高兴地抱着手臂。

 

“Like not actually hurting anyone? This is just fun, ok? Not revenge for everything Slytherin’s ever done.” She was using her Head Girl voice, now, and a few people lowered their hands.  

“比如说不伤害任何人？这只是好玩的，明白吗？不是为了报复斯莱特林所做的一切。”她现在用的是她的女生主席声音，一些人低下了手。

 

“Fair enough,” James said, holding up his hands amicably, coming between Sirius and Lily. “No physical harm intended. And as I said before, no talking about it outside of this room. On pain of death. Joking , Evans!” He ducked as she went to slap the back of his head.  

“公平，”詹姆斯说，友好地举起双手，站在天狼星和莉莉之间。“不打算造成身体伤害。正如我之前所说的，不要在这个房间之外谈论此事。否则后果自负。开玩笑的，埃文斯！”他躲开了她去拍他脑袋的手。

 

After these initial teething problems, everyone seemed to enter into the spirit of the thing. Lots of people had ideas - from the extreme (Lily vetoed summoning a banshee to haunt the dungeons), to the subtle (Emmeline knew of a spell which would transfigure everyone’s right shoe into a left shoe - she said she’d done it to her sister over the summer and it had taken her three days to realise what had been bothering her).  

经过这些初步的问题后，大家似乎都融入了这个氛围。许多人有主意——从极端的（莉莉否决了召唤女妖来困扰地牢）到微妙的（艾梅琳知道一个咒语可以把每个人的右脚鞋子变成左脚鞋子——她说她在暑假时对她的妹妹做过这个，她花了三天才意识到是什么困扰了她）。

 

Eventually, time ran short, so James set everyone ‘homework’ - requiring them to come back next week with an idea.  

最终，时间不够了，所以詹姆斯给大家布置了“作业”——要求他们下周带着主意回来。

 

“Then we can decide on the best one.” Sirius declared.  

“然后我们可以决定最好的方案。”天狼星宣布道。

 

“Who decides?” Mary narrowed her eyes.  

“谁来决定？”玛丽眯起了眼睛。

 

“Me, James, Pete and Moony, obviously.” Sirius raised his chin.  

“我，詹姆斯，彼得和月亮，显然。”天狼星昂起下巴。

 

“Can’t we vote?” One of the sixth years asked.  

“我们不能投票吗？”一个六年级学生问道。

 

“Yeah, that seems fairer.” Mary nodded. “If we’re all putting ourselves at risk of expulsion for you.”  

“是的，这样更公平。”玛丽点头道。“如果我们都要冒着被开除的风险的话。”

 

“Expulsion?!” Christopher bit his lip, “Surely not… surely we won’t go that far…?”  

“开除？！”克里斯托弗咬着嘴唇，“肯定不会……我们不会走到那一步吧……？”

 

“ Will we get in trouble, though?” The hufflepuff boy raised his hand again. Everyone looked at him.  

“那我们会不会惹上麻烦？”赫奇帕奇的男孩再次举起手。大家都看着他。

 

“Not much.” Sirius shrugged. “Bit of detention never hurt anyone.”  

“不多。”天狼星耸耸肩。“一点留校察看从来不会伤害任何人。”

 

“No, sorry, I don’t mean detention.” The boy shook his head, nervously. “I mean with… you know the Slytherins. They won’t… tell the death eaters to get us, will they?”  

“不，对不起，我不是说留校察看。”那男孩紧张地摇头。“我是说……你知道斯莱特林。他们不会……告诉食死徒来抓我们吧？”

 

Sirius looked about to laugh, when he realised that the atmosphere in the room had changed. A few people looked very awkward, some of them were whispering amongst themselves. Remus could even smell a whiff of real fear creeping into the room; everybody seemed to have tensed up a bit.  

天狼星本来想笑，但他意识到房间里的气氛发生了变化。一些人看起来很尴尬，有些人在低声耳语。雷木斯甚至闻到了一丝真正的恐惧弥漫在房间里；每个人似乎都紧张了一些。

 

Of course, Sirius and James did not worry about that sort of thing. This was all part of the crusade of chaos they’d been on since they were eleven. Even Remus had been pretty flippant about the magnitude of the prank. But he saw now that it meant a lot more to those gathered in the room. James, Sirius and Peter were the only purebloods in attendance. Unless you counted Christopher, who had his own axe to grind with the Slytherins.  

当然，天狼星和詹姆斯并不担心这种事。这一切都是他们从十一岁开始的混乱 crusade 的一部分。即使雷木斯对恶作剧的规模也相当轻率。但他现在明白这对房间里的人意义重大。詹姆斯、天狼星和彼得是唯一出席的纯血巫师。除非你算上克里斯托弗，他对斯莱特林也有自己的怨气。

 

James stood up again, pushing off Flitwick’s desk and drawing himself to full height.  

詹姆斯再次站起身，推开弗立维克的桌子，挺直了身体。

 

“Absolutely not. No one in this room is getting hurt because of this prank.”  

“绝对不行。这个恶作剧不会让房间里的人受到伤害。”

A few people relaxed - after all, James Potter, heir to the Sleek-ezy fortune, head boy, quidditch captain and leading mischief maker was somebody that most people trusted. Remus believed him whole-heartedly - even if the issue had not been raised, it would have been a point of honour for James to protect anyone smaller than him. Lily was beaming at him too, and Sirius looked very pleased, as if that had settled everything.
几个人放松了——毕竟詹姆斯·波特，Sleek-ezy 财富的继承人，学生会主席，魁地奇队长和首席捣蛋鬼，是大多数人信任的人。雷木斯全心全意地相信他——即使问题没有被提出来，这也是詹姆斯保护比他小的人的一种荣誉。莉莉也在微笑着看着他，天狼星看起来很满意，仿佛一切都解决了。

“Right,” Lily clapped her hands together now, taking the floor again, “See you all again next week, I suppose. I think we’d all better leave in small groups, don’t want to draw attention to ourselves…”
“好，”莉莉现在拍了拍手，重新站到大家面前，“我想我们下周再见。我觉得我们最好分小组离开，不想引起别人的注意……”

With that, the room slowly returned to normal, groups of students now chattering excitedly about ideas they’d had, or curses they’d like to try out. Lily assumed her Head Girl voice and started directing people out of the room in groups of three or four, at short intervals. The marauders turned inwards, to confer.
随即，房间慢慢恢复了正常，学生们开始兴奋地讨论他们想到的主意，或者他们想尝试的咒语。莉莉以学生会主席的口吻，开始将人们分成三到四人的小组，有间隔地引导他们离开房间。掠夺者们转向内部，开始商讨。

“Bloody hell.” James muttered, so that he wouldn’t be overheard, “That was intense.”
“真是的。”詹姆斯咕哝道，避免被听到，“真是紧张。”

“What did you expect?” Mary tutted, hoisting herself up onto the desk and swinging her legs. “This isn’t a game to everyone - some people are out for revenge.”
“你期望什么？”玛丽发出声响，坐到桌子上摆弄着腿。“这对每个人来说都不是游戏——有些人是为了报复。”

“Then that’s what we’ll give them.” Sirius said, fiercely. He had that brightness in his eyes that told Remus he would be utterly unbearable for the next few hours. A plan was afoot, and nothing could bring Sirius down from that kind of excitement.
“那我们就给他们这个。”天狼星坚定地说。他眼中的光芒让雷木斯知道，他在接下来的几个小时里会变得非常难以忍受。一个计划正在进行中，没有什么能让天狼星从这种兴奋中退缩。

“Calm down, Black,” Mary teased, “You’re schoolkids, not generals.”
“冷静点，布莱克，”玛丽调侃道，“你们是学生，不是将军。”

“For now.” He replied, darkly.
“暂时是这样。”他阴沉地回答。

“Ok you lot,” Lily turned back into the room. It was only the seven of them left. “We’ll go back in two groups, because no one is going to believe you four weren’t up to something…”
“好了，你们这些人，”莉莉转回房间。只剩下他们七个人了。“我们分成两组回去，因为没有人会相信你们四个没有搞什么鬼……”

Mary, James, Lily and Peter left first, with instructions for Remus, Sirius and Christopher to give them a ten minute head start. Remus was a bit reluctant about this, but there was no way to bring it up. He couldn’t help remembering what had happened the last time he and Christopher were alone in that classroom with Sirius. Though, of course, Christopher hadn’t known Sirius was there at the time, and nor would Remus ever tell him.
玛丽、詹姆斯、莉莉和彼得首先离开，指示雷木斯、天狼星和克里斯托弗给他们十分钟的领先时间。雷木斯对此有些不情愿，但没法提出。他忍不住回忆起上次他和克里斯托弗在教室里和天狼星独处时发生的事。当然，克里斯托弗当时并不知道天狼星在场，雷木斯也不会告诉他。

They tidied up the desks, cleared the chalkboard of James’s lion, then stood about awkwardly for a little bit.
他们整理了桌子，擦掉了黑板上的詹姆斯的狮子，然后尴尬地站了一会儿。

“Let’s play truth or dare.” Sirius grinned.
“我们来玩真心话大冒险吧。”天狼星咧嘴一笑。

“Why?” Remus sighed, leaning on the desk. Here we go...
“为什么？”雷木斯叹了口气，靠在桌子上。开始了……

“Pass the time.”
“打发时间。”

“Or we could just have a normal conversation…”
“或者我们可以聊聊……”

“Christopher wants to, don’t you, Christopher?”
“克里斯托弗想玩，不是吗，克里斯托弗？”

“Err…”
“呃……”

“Great, you can go first. Truth or dare, what do you fancy?”
“很好，你可以先来。真心话还是大冒险，你想要哪个？”

“Um.” Chris’s eyes flicked between Remus and Sirius nervously. “I don’t… um… truth?”
“嗯。”克里斯的眼睛在雷木斯和天狼星之间紧张地闪烁。“我不……嗯……真心话？”

“Excellent! Start off easy, if it’s your first time playing,” Sirius nodded encouragingly. “Hmmm, let me see… ah! Ok, why did you want to get involved with the prank?”
“太棒了！如果这是你第一次玩，最好从简单的开始，”天狼星鼓励地点头。“嗯，让我看看……啊！好的，你为什么想参与这个恶作剧？”

“What?”
“什么？”

“Y’know. How come you came today?”
“你知道的。你怎么会来呢？”

“Chris has been involved since the beginning, Padfoot, you know that.” Remus tutted.
“克里斯从一开始就参与了，天狼星，你知道的。”雷木斯发出声响。

“Right, right - so what made you get involved in the first place, then?”
“对，对——那是什么让你最初参与的呢？”

“If you have to know.” Christopher said, rather icily, “It was your brother.”
“如果你非要知道的话。”克里斯托弗有些冷淡地说，“是你哥哥。”

Sirius, to his credit, did not flinch.
天狼星值得称赞的是，他没有退缩。

“Fair enough, he’s a right little prick.” He nodded. He licked his lips, and glanced at Remus, then back at Chris. “Sure there was no other reason?”
“说得对，他确实是个小混蛋。”他点了点头。他舔了舔嘴唇，瞥了雷木斯一眼，然后又看向克里斯。“确定没有其他原因？”

“No.”
“没有。”

“I’ll go next,” Remus said, quickly. “Chris, you can ask me to do a dare.” He never picked ‘truth’, it was far too dangerous.
“那我来，”雷木斯迅速地说。“克里斯，你可以让我要做一个大冒险。”他从不选择“真心话”，这太危险了。

“Umm…” Christopher bit his lip, still a bit thrown by this whole thing. “Oh, I don’t know, I’m crap at this sort of thing.”
“嗯……”克里斯托弗咬着嘴唇，仍然有些被这整个事情弄得措手不及。“哦，我不知道，我这方面很糟糕。”

“I’ve got a good one!” Sirius said at once. He winked at Remus, then leaned over and whispered in Chris’s ear. Christopher’s eyes widened and he laughed, covering his mouth.
“我有一个好主意！”天狼星立刻说。他对雷木斯眨了眨眼，然后靠过来在克里斯托弗耳边低声耳语。克里斯托弗的眼睛瞪大了，笑了起来，捂住了嘴巴。

“Ok, Remus,” Chris was still blushing, but he was having fun now. “Ok, you have to write something rude on the blackboard and leave it there.”
“好的，雷木斯，”克里斯托弗仍在脸红，但现在他很开心。“好吧，你得在黑板上写些粗鲁的东西，然后把它留在那里。”

“I gave you specifics.” Sirius complained.
“我给了你具体要求。”天狼星抱怨道。

“I’m not saying that out loud!” Christopher laughed, turning even redder. Remus could easily guess the tone of Sirius’s suggestion. He raised an eyebrow wryly, as if under duress,
“我不想大声说出来！”克里斯托弗笑着，脸红得更厉害了。雷木斯可以轻松猜到天狼星建议的语气。他挑了挑眉，仿佛受到了压力，

“Ok, fine, I’ll do it…”
“好吧，算了，我来做……”

He went up to the board and picked up some chalk. He considered it for a moment, “How rude?” He asked the other two, casually.
他走到黑板前，拿起一些粉笔。他考虑了一下，“多粗鲁？”他随意地问另外两个人。

“Very.” Christopher said, smirking shyly.
“非常。”克里斯托弗脸红地说道，带着狡黠的笑容。

“Well, it’s the rules of the game, I s’pose…” Remus began to draw, enjoying the snickering over his shoulder as he deftly traced out the first rude thing that popped into his head.
“嗯，规则就是这样，我想……”雷木斯开始画画，享受着肩膀上的窃笑，因为他灵巧地勾勒出第一个出现在脑海中的粗鲁词汇。

He stepped back, an artist admiring his work. The other two boys stood either side of him, grinning madly. “Well?” He asked.
他退后一步，像艺术家一样欣赏自己的作品。其他两个男孩站在他身旁，狂笑着。“怎么样？”他问道。

Sirius slapped him on the back,
天狼星拍了拍他的背，

“Moony, me old pal, it’s the biggest knob I’ve ever seen.”
“月亮，我的老朋友，这是我见过最大的那玩意儿。”

“Well, that’s a relief.” Remus smirked, forgetting Christopher was there. He didn’t seem to notice - or else just assumed that it was marauder humour (which it sort of was).
“嗯，那就放心了。”雷木斯笑道，忘记了克里斯托弗还在场。他似乎没注意到——或者只是认为这是掠夺者的幽默（虽然确实是）。

“Glorious.” The younger boy nodded, still very pink about the cheeks.
“太棒了。”年轻的克里斯托弗点了点头，脸颊仍然非常红。

“Come on then,” Remus set down the chalk, “That’s enough of a gap, we can go now. Common room?”
“那么，走吧，”雷木斯放下粉笔，“已经留了足够的时间，我们可以走了。回公共休息室？”

“Oi, I’ve not had my turn, yet!” Sirius folded his arms.
“喂，我还没轮到我呢！”天狼星抱起了胳膊。

“What’s the point,” Remus shook his head, “You always choose a dare, and there’s nothing I can think of that you’d even think twice about doing.”
“有什么意义，”雷木斯摇了摇头，“你总是选择大冒险，我想不出你会考虑的事情。”

“Are you saying I’m the bravest --”
“你是在说我最勇敢——”

“Stupidest, maybe,” Remus teased, elbowing him in the ribs. “Come on, let’s go.”
“也许是最愚蠢的，”雷木斯调侃道，用肘部碰了碰他。“走吧，我们走吧。”

They left the classroom and set off through the quiet hallways back to Gryffindor tower. It was fairly late in the evening now, and curfew was only a couple of hours off, so they were alone most of the way, other than the portraits, who were enjoying the peace and quiet.
他们离开了教室，沿着安静的走廊前往格兰芬多塔楼。现在已经是傍晚了，禁足时间只有几个小时，所以他们大部分时间都独自一人，除了挂在墙上的画像们，他们正享受着宁静。

“Did you finish Maurice, Remus?” Chris asked. Always back to books.
“你读完《莫里斯》了吗，雷木斯？”克里斯托弗问道。总是回到书本上。

“Nearly,” Remus replied. “Just a chapter or two to go. Do you promise me it’s a happy ending?”
“差不多了，”雷木斯回答。“就剩一两章了。你能保证这是个快乐的结局吗？”

“Definitely,” Chris nodded. “You’ll love it. I was thinking… if you’re free on Saturday we could have a chat about it in the Three Broomsticks? I’d really like to know what you think.”
“当然了，”克里斯托弗点了点头。“你会喜欢的。我在想……如果你周六有空，我们可以在三把扫帚酒吧聊聊吗？我很想知道你怎么想。”

“Yeah, maybe…” Remus was torn between his desire not to disappoint Christopher (which he always seemed to be doing) and his keen awareness of Sirius’s very mercurial mood. “Don’t see why not.”
“嗯，也许……”雷木斯在不想让克里斯托弗失望（他总是觉得自己在做这个）和对天狼星非常善变的情绪的敏锐感知之间挣扎。“没理由不行。”

“Is that the muggle book you’ve been reading?” Sirius asked, “Is it good then?”
“那是你一直在读的麻瓜书吗？”天狼星问道，“那么好吗？”

“Yeah, quite good.” Remus nodded, cautiously.
“是的，相当不错。”雷木斯小心翼翼地点头。

“Great. Maybe I’ll read it then. I can get it done by Saturday, I read faster than you.”
“太好了。也许我会读这本书。我可以在周六之前读完，我读得比你快。”

“You do not!” Remus scowled, scandalised.
“你才没有呢！”雷木斯皱起眉头，愤愤不平。

“Well I have more time to read, anyway.”
“嗯，我有更多时间阅读。”

“Only because you hardly go to half your lessons.” Remus shot back.
“只因为你几乎不上半数的课。”雷木斯回击道。

“I doubt it’s your sort of thing, Sirius.” Christopher spoke up. They both looked at him. He shrugged, “Well, it’s not! Tell him what it’s about, Remus.”
“我怀疑这是不是你喜欢的书，天狼星。”克里斯托弗说道。他们俩都看向他。他耸了耸肩，“好吧，确实不是！雷木斯，告诉他这本书讲的是什么。”

“Er…”
“呃……”

But it was too late, Sirius was already rummaging in the book bag at Remus’s hip as they walked, and at once withdrew the text. Remus fought the urge to snatch it back, only because he’d underlined some parts of it, just because he’d liked them so much, and he was embarrassed about it now.
但为时已晚，天狼星已经在雷木斯的书包里翻找，并立刻抽出了那本书。雷木斯拼命克制住抢回书的冲动，只是因为他在书中划了几处，只是因为他非常喜欢这些地方，现在对此感到尴尬。

(I think you’re beautiful, the only beautiful person I’ve ever seen. I love your voice and everything to do with you, down to your clothes or the room you are sitting in. I adore you.)
（我觉得你很美丽，是我见过的唯一美丽的人。我爱你的声音和与你有关的一切，甚至是你的衣服或你坐着的房间。我崇拜你。）

Fortunately, Sirius didn’t flip through the pages, only looked at the back cover, frowning slightly.
幸运的是，天狼星没有翻动书页，只是看了看封底，微微皱起了眉头。

“Isn’t this one of my uncle’s?” He asked.
“这不是我叔叔的一本书吗？”他问道。

“Yeah, you said I could borrow it…” Remus rubbed the back of his head.
“是的，你说我可以借的……”雷木斯摸了摸头后。

“Is it dirty?”
“这本书有色情内容吗？”

“No.”
“没有。”

“Oh well. I’ll read it anyway.” Sirius poked out his tongue. “That can be my dare.”
“哦，好吧。我还是读读吧。”天狼星伸出舌头。“这可以成为我的大冒险。”

“Very brave.” Remus grabbed back the book and shoved it in his bag.
“非常勇敢。”雷木斯抢回书本，把它塞进了包里。

“But it’s about…” Christopher frowned. They were almost at the portrait hole now, and Sirius stopped, making all three of them stop too. Sirius looked at Remus, raising an eyebrow, he nodded to Chris.
“但这本书讲的是……”克里斯托弗皱起眉头。他们快到画像洞口了，天狼星停了下来，使得三人都停了下来。天狼星看着雷木斯，挑了挑眉，向克里斯托弗点了点头。

“He makes a lot of assumptions, this one.”
“这个人做了很多假设。”

Remus was surprised to find that his own cheeks were heating up, too. He shrugged,
雷木斯惊讶地发现自己的脸颊也在发热。他耸了耸肩，

“He doesn’t know you very well.”
“他对你了解不多。”

“Oi, Christopher?” Sirius shot him a very wicked look. “Dare me to snog Moony?”
“喂，克里斯托弗？”天狼星向他投以了一个非常邪恶的目光。“大冒险我亲吻月亮怎么样？”

“Wha-- I--?!” Christopher looked stricken, as if he knew there was a笑话 somewhere, but he couldn’t figure out the punchline.
“什么——我——？！”克里斯托弗看上去非常震惊，仿佛知道这里面有个笑话，但他无法找到笑点。

Sirius wasted no time. He took Remus’s head, roughly, and pulled him in for a kiss. Remus gave in. It was a bit mean, but he could hardly refuse. If it was a test of loyalty, or simply something Sirius thought would be funny, he had to go along with it.
天狼星没有浪费时间。他粗暴地抓住雷木斯的头，将他拉近，亲吻了他。雷木斯屈服了。这有点刻薄，但他几乎无法拒绝。如果这是对忠诚的考验，或者只是天狼星认为有趣的事，他必须配合。

“Oh for Merlin’s sake!” A voice came from further up the corridor, causing Sirius and Remus to spring apart. “I’m away for a week and the castle turns into an orgy!”
“真是的，梅林的圣名！”一个声音从走廊深处传来，导致天狼星和雷木斯分开。“我离开一周，城堡就变成了一个纵欲的场所！”

All three boys spun around to see Marlene standing there in her travelling cloak, duffle bag at her side. She gave them a knowing smirk, “What a load of queers.”
三个人转过身，看到玛琳站在那儿，穿着旅行斗篷，旁边放着一个大包。她露出会意的微笑，“真是一群同性恋者。”

Chapter 136~140Chapter Summary

136. Seventh Year: Mind Games (2018-03-02)
137. Seventh Year: Remus the Martyr (2018-03-05)
138. Seventh Year: Hope (2018-03-05)
139. Seventh Year: Drunkards (2018-03-06)
140. Seventh Year: Brilliant ideas (2018-03-11)

 

Chapter 136: Seventh Year: Mind GamesEveryone was thrilled to see Marlene, of course. Sirius ushered her through the fat lady portrait as fast as he could, and practically trumpeted her arrival to the whole common room, as though he had conjured her from thin air.
当然，大家都很高兴看到玛琳。天狼星尽快把她带过胖夫人画像，几乎是向整个公共休息室宣布她的到来，就好像他从空气中召唤了她一样。

Lily and James rushed over, hugging her and taking her bag, and cloak and leading her to the couch by the fireplace, where Mary hugged her so fiercely Marlene almost squeaked.
莉莉和詹姆斯急忙跑过来，拥抱她，拿过她的包和斗篷，带她到壁炉旁的沙发上，玛丽抱得如此紧，玛琳差点尖叫出声。

“We’ve missed you!” Mary exclaimed, finally letting her friend go.
“我们好想你！”玛丽惊呼道，终于放开了她的朋友。

“I can see that!” Marlene gasped, pink cheeked. “Have you all been that bored without me?”
“我能看出来！”玛琳喘息着，脸颊泛红。“你们没有我真的那么无聊吗？”

Remus hung back a little. He and Marlene didn’t hug much, anyway, so he didn’t think it would be noticed. He watched her warily, and chose to sit in the armchair furthest away from her, trying not to draw attention to himself. Christopher had slipped away too, at some point, maybe up to his dorm room. In the back of his mind, Remus hoped Chris wasn’t angry with him, but he filed that away for another time. He had too much to worry about with Marlene’s return.
雷木斯稍微退后了一点。他和玛琳不太拥抱，所以他觉得不会被注意到。他警惕地看着她，选择坐在离她最远的扶手椅上，尽量不引起注意。克里斯托弗也在某个时候悄悄离开了，也许是上他的宿舍。在他心底，雷木斯希望克里斯没有生他的气，但他把这个问题留到以后再处理。他现在有太多关于玛琳回来的事情需要担心。

“How’s Danny?” Mary was asking now, lowering her voice.
“丹尼怎么样了？”玛丽现在问道，声音压得很低。

“He’s… recovering.” Marlene nodded, her eyes serious. “He’s at home now, mum’s driving him crazy as usual. He won’t… he won’t be going back to the Cannons.” She swallowed and looked down at her hands.
“他在……康复中。”玛琳点头，她的眼神很严肃。“他现在在家里，妈妈像往常一样把他搞疯了。他不会……不会再回到加农队了。”她吞了吞口水，低头看着自己的手。

“It’s a bloody disgrace.” James banged his fist on the arm of the couch, “If I was their manager, I’d--”
“这真是个可耻的事。”詹姆斯重重地拍了一下沙发的扶手，“如果我是他们的经理，我会——”

“He’s too badly injured, anyway.” Marlene shook her head, wiping quickly under her eyes, “He’d have been off for the rest of the season either way; it’ll be months before he’s back on a broom. So. Just as well.”
“反正他的伤也很严重。”玛琳摇摇头，迅速擦拭了眼下，“不管怎么说，他都会休息整个赛季；要等几个月才能再次骑上扫帚。所以。也好。”

“Still bollocks.” James muttered.
“还是很糟糕。”詹姆斯喃喃道。

“Yeah, well.” Marlene looked up, stonily. “Can hardly blame them. I know I would have… anyway. Not worth thinking about.”
“嗯，好吧。”玛琳抬起头，面无表情。“很难怪他们。我知道我会……反正。不值得再想了。”

Remus felt sick with tension. Everyone else sitting in the group knew what he was - everyone except Marlene. The guilt he had been successfully avoiding for a week came crashing back over him like a cold shower. It had been his responsibility to warn everyone of the attack. He had told Dumbledore, but it hadn’t been enough; he’d failed. And now the evidence of his failure was sitting right in front of him, her face thin and her eyes dark with worry.
雷木斯感到紧张得恶心。坐在小组中的其他人都知道他是什么——除了玛琳。他成功回避了一周的内疚像冷水一样扑向他。他本该负责警告大家即将发生的攻击。他已经告诉了邓布利多，但这还不够；他失败了。现在，他失败的证据就在他面前，她的脸色苍白，眼中满是担忧。

Marlene cleared her throat and flashed them all a brave smile,
玛琳清了清嗓子，给他们一个勇敢的微笑，

“I’m going to talk to Madam Pomfrey as soon as I can; see if she recommends anything. The healers at St Mungo’s were useless, more concerned with keeping him quarantined than actually helping him. Hardly anyone could answer the questions I had about transformations, or aftercare, or pain relief… it was like they’d rather I just stopped talking about him; like they wanted to pretend he wasn’t there...”
“我会尽快去找波姆弗雷夫人；看看她有什么建议。圣芒戈的治疗师没用，他们更关心把他隔离而不是实际帮助他。几乎没有人能回答我关于变身、后续护理或疼痛缓解的问题……感觉他们宁愿我别提他；就像他们想假装他不在一样……”

Her voice was getting higher and thinner as she said this, tears threatening to choke her. She cleared her throat again. “I mean, I know what he is, don’t get me wrong. I know what he’s going to become. But he’s still my brother for fuck’s sake!”
她说这些话时声音变得越来越高、越来越细，眼泪几乎要窒息她。她再次清了清嗓子。“我是说，我知道他是什么，别误解我的意思。我知道他将会变成什么。但他毕竟还是我的兄弟！”

“Of course he is.” Mary said, squeezing Marlene’s hand. She gave Remus a look, and he looked at his feet. No. No way. Absolutely not.
“当然了。”玛丽说道，紧握玛琳的手。她看了雷木斯一眼，雷木斯低头看脚。不行。不可能。绝对不行。

No one else was speaking, but they all had the same look on their faces. Are they thinking about me? Remus wondered, queasily, do they blame me? Are they wondering what I’m capable of?
其他人都没说话，但他们脸上都有一样的表情。他们在想我吗？雷木斯不安地想，他们怪我吗？他们在想我能做什么？

“Anyway.” Marlene shook her head again. “What’s been going on here? Is that your cat, Lily?”
“好了。”玛琳再次摇头。“这里发生了什么？那是你的猫吗，莉莉？”

“Valentine’s day present,” Lily smiled, stroking the purring bundle in her lap. “His name’s Hieronymus.”
“情人节礼物，”莉莉微笑着，抚摸着她膝上的打呼噜的小猫。“它的名字叫海罗纽姆斯。”

“Catchy.” Marlene sniffed, smiling. “Nice one, Potter, you big softie.”
“挺吸引人的。”玛琳嗅了嗅，笑着说道。“好样的，波特，你这个大软蛋。”

“You’re still on the team, right?” James asked, leaning forward, “My star beater?!”
“你还在队里吧？”詹姆斯向前倾身问道，“我的明星击球手？！”

“Obviously,” She rolled her eyes, “I’m assuming the training times haven’t changed…?”
“当然了，”她翻了个白眼，“我猜你们的训练时间没有变化吧……？”

“First thing tomorrow morning.” James grinned.
“明天早上第一件事。”詹姆斯笑道。

“And, we’re planning this huge--” Peter started, eagerly, but was cut off,
“而且，我们正在计划这个大型——”彼得兴奋地开始说，但被打断了，

“Oi, McKinnon.”
“喂，麦金农。”

They all turned around to see Yasmin standing behind the couch, hands on her hips and grinning widely. She’d obviously been getting ready for bed, her hair was piled messily up on her head and she was wearing in her oversized Holyhead Harpies shirt and a baggy pair of men’s winceyette pyjama bottoms.
他们都转过身来，看到亚斯敏站在沙发后面，双手叉腰，露出灿烂的笑容。她显然已经准备上床睡觉了，头发凌乱地盘在头上，穿着一件过大的霍利黑德女巫队的球衣和一条宽松的男士绸缎睡裤。

“Alright, Patel?” Marlene answered. Remus couldn’t see her face but he knew she was smiling. She twisted round on the couch and got up on her knees, and the girls hugged tightly.
“好吧，帕特尔？”玛琳回答道。雷木斯看不见她的脸，但他知道她在微笑。她在沙发上扭过身子，跪了起来，女孩们紧紧拥抱在一起。

You could do that, Remus realised, if you were girls. No one thought it was weird. He wondered if Sirius was thinking the same thing. He hoped not.
雷木斯意识到，如果你是女孩，你可以这样做。没有人会觉得奇怪。他想知道天狼星是否也在想这个。他希望不是。

That pretty much put an end to any more werewolf talk, which was a relief. Remus just hoped he could avoid it later, when it was just him and Sirius. He was sure to want to know how Remus felt, and what his thoughts were… and while yes, ok, Remus did understand that communication was important and blah blah blah… did that mean they had to discuss every painful thing in minute detail?!
这基本上结束了所有有关狼人话题，这让人松了口气。雷木斯只是希望他能在稍后的时候避开这些话题，尤其是当只有他和天狼星在一起的时候。他肯定会想知道雷木斯的感受和想法……虽然是的，雷木斯确实理解沟通很重要之类的……那是否意味着他们必须详细讨论每一个痛苦的事情？！

For god’s sake. He was already getting agitated about it, and it hadn’t even happened. He cracked his neck and then his shoulders, willing himself to loosen up. He was still a bit wound up from that kiss out in the corridor, he realised. He wasn’t sure whether or not Sirius had meant it that way, or if it was all just a show for Christopher, but it had stirred something in Remus, and now it felt like… unfinished business. He shifted a bit in his seat, and tried to ignore that, too.
真是的。他已经开始对这件事感到烦躁了，而事情还没发生。他扭了扭脖子，然后是肩膀，努力让自己放松。他意识到自己还因为走廊里的那次吻而有点紧张。他不确定天狼星是否是故意那样做，还是只是为了克里斯托弗的表演，但这在雷木斯心中激起了某种情感，现在感觉像是……未完成的事务。他在座位上稍微移动了一下，试图忽略这一点。

Mary had tactfully moved to the other end of the couch, and was now casually filing her nails and chatting to Lily, who was teasing Hieronymus with a quill.
玛丽巧妙地挪到沙发的另一端，现在正随意地修剪指甲，与莉莉聊天，莉莉用羽毛笔逗弄海罗纽姆斯。

Yaz climbed over the back of the sofa to take her place, and she and Marlene had their heads together, speaking very quickly and very quietly. Remus caught the muggy scent of the muffliato spell, which was odder from the outside than the inside - as if their very words were blurred out somehow. They were sitting so close to each other that their thighs touched, Yaz’s arm slung around the back of the couch just behind Marlene’s head, in a way that would have raised eyebrows, even if only one of them was a boy.
亚兹爬过沙发的背部就位，她和玛琳头挨在一起，快速而低声地交谈。雷木斯捕捉到了魔音消除咒的闷热气息，从外面看比从里面看更奇怪——就好像她们的话语被模糊了一样。她们坐得非常近，大腿接触，亚兹的手臂绕在沙发背后，刚好在玛琳的头部后面，即使其中只有一个是男孩，也会引起人们的关注。

James and Sirius were in a deep conversation about the upcoming quidditch match against Ravenclaw, Peter eagerly interjecting every now and then with his own tactical insights. Remus pulled his book out and tried to read. It was no good; he couldn’t concentrate with so many people chatting.
詹姆斯和天狼星正深度讨论即将对阵拉文克劳的魁地奇比赛，彼得时不时兴奋地插话，提出自己的战术见解。雷木斯拿出书来试图阅读，但效果不好；这么多人聊天让他无法集中注意力。

The last postcard from Grant was tucked into the dust jacket of Maurice, and he read it again. This time the photo on the front was of three bikini clad girls frolicking in the sea. Even Sirius had found that one funny. There wasn’t much on the back - Grant was a man of few words, when it came to written correspondence.
最后一张来自格兰特的明信片夹在《莫里斯》的封面里，他再次读了一遍。这次的照片上是三位穿着比基尼的女孩在海里嬉戏。即使是天狼星也觉得这张照片很有趣。明信片背面没什么内容——格兰特在书信交流中是个寡言的人。

Working hard, having fun. Hope you’re well.
努力工作，玩得开心。希望你一切安好。

Love.
爱。

That word again. Obviously Grant could say it. Or write it. He couldn’t spell Remus’s surname the same way twice, but love was no big deal. Ugh. Only half an hour ago, Remus had been almost completely free from worry; cocooned by his friends, and Sirius, and the idiotic notion that everything would be ok, if they could just come up with a really good prank.
那又是那个词。显然格兰特可以说这个词，或者写这个词。他不能每次都拼对雷木斯的姓，但“爱”这个词却没什么大不了的。唉。仅仅半小时前，雷木斯几乎完全没有担忧；被他的朋友和天狼星包围着，还有那种愚蠢的念头，如果他们能想出一个很好的恶作剧，一切都会没事的。

But the shade had fallen now, and no matter where he looked, all Remus could see was trouble and his own failings. Frustrated, he slammed his book closed on the postcard, a little too hard. Everyone looked up.
但阴影现在已经降临，无论他往哪里看，雷木斯看到的只有麻烦和自己的失败。恼怒之下，他把书砰地一声合上，稍微用力过猛。大家都抬起头来。

“All right there, Moony?” Lily asked, gently.
“你没事吧，月亮？”莉莉温柔地问道。

“Fine. Sorry.” Remus nodded. He reached into his pockets for a cigarette, pulling out his matchbox quickly.
“没事。抱歉。”雷木斯点点头。他伸手进口袋里找烟，迅速拿出火柴盒。

“Not in the common room, please!” Lily switched to head girl mode as quick as a flash.
“请不要在公共休息室抽烟！”莉莉迅速进入了头女模式。

“Right, right, sorry…” He clumsily clambered to his feet, fag pursed between his lips. “I’ll go upstairs.”
“对，对，抱歉……”他笨拙地站起身来，嘴里夹着烟。“我上楼去。”

“We’re going to bed too.” Marlene said, then blushed and stammered quickly, “I mean, upstairs. To sleep. Erm. You know - if we’ve got an early practice…”
“我们也要上床了。”玛琳娜说，然后脸红了，结结巴巴地补充道：“我是说，上楼。去睡觉。嗯。你知道的——如果我们有早晨的训练……”

Yaz was barely able to keep a straight face as she waved goodbye to them all, before hurrying up the stairs after her girlfriend. Mary and Remus shared a knowing look, but James and Lily still seemed blissfully ignorant.
雅兹几乎忍不住笑出声来，她向大家挥手告别，然后急匆匆地跟着她的女朋友上了楼。玛丽和雷木斯交换了一个了然的眼神，但詹姆斯和莉莉似乎仍然一无所知。

“Night.” Remus nodded to everyone, heaving his bag onto his shoulder and heading up the opposite flight of stairs to the boys dormitories.
“晚安。”雷木斯向大家点头，他把书包扛在肩上，向男生宿舍的楼梯走去。

It was a mistake. Alone, he had nothing to distract him from his own judgements - and they were harsh. Quite right too, in Remus’s opinion. If the McKinnon family could not forget the repercussions of his failure to act, then why should he have any respite? And those were just the people he knew he had let down - there were families up and down the country now facing a full moon for the first time. It was a good thing his father was dead, and his mother had washed her hands of him. At least he couldn’t cause them any more pain.
这是一个错误。独自一人，他没有任何东西可以分散他的自我评判——而且这些评判是严厉的。雷木斯认为这完全是对的。如果麦金农一家无法忘记他未能行动的后果，那他为什么应该得到任何安慰？而这些只是他知道自己辜负的人——现在全国各地的家庭都将第一次面临满月。好在他的父亲已经去世，他的母亲也对他绝望了。至少他不能再给他们带来更多痛苦。

He sat on the window ledge, letting the cold air wash over him, smoking and thinking and scolding himself until he thought he may as well just fling himself out of it. But that was just a passing fancy. Remus was too much of a coward to do what ought to be done; this much he knew.
他坐在窗台上，让冷风吹拂自己，抽烟、思考和自我责备，直到他觉得自己不如直接从窗户扔出去。然而，这只是一个一时的念头。雷木斯知道自己太胆怯，做不到该做的事。

Still, he felt a strong urge to do something. Something drastic, something violent. The wolf inside would have liked a good long run, but it would be past curfew soon. There was a bit of dope in his sock drawer, but that would only make him more gloomy. Someone was hiding a bottle of firewhisky; he could smell it, but that was probably in preparation for his own upcoming birthday, and he couldn’t spoil that for his friends. Maybe put a record on and flail around a bit, but he’d never been much for dancing, and his hip was bothering him.
尽管如此，他还是强烈地想做点什么。做点激烈的，做点暴力的。里面的狼会喜欢一次长跑，但很快就要到宵禁时间了。他的袜子抽屉里有一些大麻，但那只会让他更阴郁。有人藏着一瓶火酒；他能闻到，但那可能是为自己即将到来的生日准备的，他不能让它毁掉他朋友们的计划。也许放一张唱片，随意扭动一下，但他从来不太喜欢跳舞，而且他的臀部很痛。

Sirius’s footfall on the stairs disrupted his thoughts. Remus licked his lips, remembering that kiss from earlier. Ah. There was always that. The ultimate distraction.
天狼星的脚步声打断了他的思绪。雷木斯舔了舔嘴唇，回忆起之前的吻。啊。总有那个。终极的分散注意力。

Decision made, he stubbed out the cigarette and got up, striding purposefully across the room. He reached the door just as Sirius pushed it open - best not to even give him a chance.
决定已定，他熄灭了香烟，站起来，迈着坚定的步伐穿过房间。他正好在天狼星推门进来的时候走到门口——最好连机会都不给他。

“Wotcher, Moony, just came to see if yo--”
“嗨，月亮，刚想看看你——”

He shut him up with a fierce kiss, crushing their lips together, pulling him at the hips so that they were pressed hard against each other.
他用一个猛烈的吻堵住了他，紧紧地贴在一起，把他拉到腰间，使他们紧密相贴。

“Oh, ok…” Sirius gasped, when he finally wrenched himself free. He kicked the door shut behind himself as Remus dragged him to the bed.
“哦，好吧……”天狼星喘息着说道，当他终于挣脱开来时。他踢上了门，雷木斯把他拖到床上。

It was good. Really, really good. Remus’s frustrated urgency was met with answering eagerness from Sirius, and they tore against each other, out of sync in the best possible way. Losing yourself in drink or drugs was nothing compared to losing yourself in Sirius Black. They’d been at this long enough now to know the edges of each others limits, and just how far they could push them.
这感觉很好。真的，非常好。雷木斯的焦虑急切得到了天狼星的热情回应，他们在一起撕扯，以最佳方式不协调。沉迷于饮酒或药物不及沉迷于天狼星·布莱克。他们已经在一起足够长的时间，知道彼此的极限，以及他们可以推到多远。

“Fuck.” Sirius groaned, when it was all over, and the windows were steamy and the waxing moon had risen outside. Remus reached for his fags once more, still buzzing, his hot skin humming. “Fuck.” Sirius said again, on his back, staring up. Beautiful mess. “What brought that on?”
“该死。”天狼星呻吟道，当一切结束时，窗户蒙上了雾气，外面的月亮正在上升。雷木斯再次拿起烟，仍然兴奋不已，热乎乎的皮肤在颤抖。“该死。”天狼星再次说道，躺在背上，盯着天花板。美丽的混乱。“这是怎么回事？”

“Just you.” Remus replied, exhaling smoke. “Just wanted it.”
“只是你。”雷木斯吐出烟雾，回答道。“只是想要。”

“Not complaining.”
“没有抱怨。”

Remus settled back, smoking quietly. This was good. This was better, anyway, than anything else he could be doing. He was still restless, though. A bit more tired, but fidgety and unsettled. He could go again. He could go all night, if it would shut his brain up. That made him glance at the door - they hadn’t shut the curtains, and by some miracle got away with it.
雷木斯靠了回去，安静地抽着烟。这很好。不管怎样，这比他能做的其他事情都要好。不过他还是不安。稍微累了一些，但还是坐立不安。他可以再来一次。如果能让他的脑袋停下来，他可以一整晚都这样。他看了一眼门——他们没有拉上窗帘，奇迹般地没有被发现。

“Where are the others?”
“其他人在哪里？”

“Mm?” Sirius’s eyes had drifted shut, but he stirred awake, valiantly, “Oh, er… Pete’s three rounds into a chess game with a second year who’s obviously some sort of evil mastermind, Mary went to bed, and Prongs and the missus have gone to the prefect’s bathrooms. They thought they were being subtle.” He chuckled lightly under his breath.
“嗯？”天狼星的眼睛已经闭上了，但他勇敢地醒了过来，“哦，呃……皮特正在和一个显然是某种邪恶天才的二年级生下三局棋，玛丽上床了，而尖头叉子和他的夫人去了级长的浴室。他们以为自己很隐蔽。”他轻声笑了笑。

“I’m going to brush my teeth.” Remus said, getting up. In the bathroom, everything came flooding back, and he couldn’t meet his own eyes in the mirror.
“我要去刷牙。”雷木斯站起来说道。在浴室里，一切都涌了回来，他无法直视镜子里的自己。

When he came back out, Sirius had woken up a bit, and was sitting up on bed. He smiled at Remus.
当他出来时，天狼星已经稍微醒了，坐在床上。他对雷木斯笑了笑。

“Hey, I just wanted to check you were ok about Marlene and everything,”
“嘿，我只是想确认你对玛琳娜和所有事情都还好吧。”

“Fine,” Remus nodded, casually, climbing back in, drawing the curtains closed as he did. “It’s good to have her back.”
“没事，”雷木斯随意地点点头，爬回床上，拉上窗帘。“她回来真好。”

“Mm, I hope you’re not worried about--”
“嗯，我希望你不要担心——”

“Do we have to talk about that?” Remus crawled towards him, straddling his lap. He began kissing Sirius’s neck, rocking into him slowly.
“我们必须谈论那个吗？”雷木斯爬向他，跨坐在他的腿上。他开始亲吻天狼星的脖子，慢慢地摇晃着身体。

“Blimey, again?” Sirius sounded surprised, but not exactly unhappy about it.
“天哪，又来？”天狼星听起来很惊讶，但并不完全不高兴。

“Mmm…” Remus replied, taking his wrists and holding them, tight. Such lovely, lovely wrists.
“嗯……”雷木斯回答道，抓住他的手腕，紧紧地握住。多么可爱的手腕。

“Mmm… well ok, but if you are worried--”
“嗯……好吧，但如果你担心——”

“Shut up, Black.” Remus growled, pulling back and meeting his eye. Sirius did, biting his lip. Remus smiled. “Much better. No more talking tonight.”
“闭嘴，布莱克。”雷木斯低吼道，拉开距离，直视他的眼睛。天狼星照做了，咬住了嘴唇。雷木斯笑了笑。“好多了。今晚不要再说话了。”

It was a cruel trick, really, exploiting Sirius’s peculiar proclivity for following direct instructions. But it worked, and Remus got his peace, at least that night. The next day was tougher, but lessons and library time became a comfortable barrier between them once again, not to mention the general rabble of friends who accompanied them pretty much everywhere.

这确实是一个残酷的把戏，利用天狼星对直接指示的特殊偏好。但它奏效了，至少那天晚上雷木斯得到了安宁。第二天更难熬，但课程和图书馆时间再次成为他们之间的舒适屏障，更不用说几乎无处不在的朋友们了。

A wiser, braver man might have used the time to look into himself, to address the feelings of guilt and shame and self-disgust, and maybe make some changes for the better.
一个更聪明、更勇敢的人可能会利用这段时间反省自己，解决内心的愧疚、羞耻和自我厌恶的情绪，或许还能做出一些积极的改变。

Remus preferred pretending everything was fine.
雷木斯更喜欢假装一切都很好。

And for a little while anyway, it seemed that Sirius was going to let him. They were still together almost all of the time, and it wasn’t as if they were arguing. If Sirius wondered why Remus’s libido rocketed any time they started to have a private conversation, he didn’t say anything. In the end, he took a different tact.
至少在一段时间内，天狼星似乎也愿意让他这样。他们几乎总是待在一起，也没有吵架。如果天狼星想知道为什么雷木斯一开始私人对话性欲就飙升，他也没说什么。最后，他采取了不同的策略。

The weekend before the upcoming full moon, they were walking back up to school from Hogsmeade, and Remus had had to slow down because of his stupid hip, yet again. Sirius and James were chatting ahead, but Christopher hung back to keep Remus company.
即将到来的满月前的那个周末，他们从霍格莫德回学校，雷木斯因为他那该死的髋关节不得不再次放慢脚步。天狼星和詹姆斯在前面聊天，而克里斯托弗则落后一步陪着雷木斯。

They had been to the Three Broomsticks, but the whole big group of them, and Christopher was always too shy to talk much in that sort of situation. So he was taking his chances now.
他们去了三把扫帚，但那是一大群人，克里斯托弗总是太害羞，在那种情况下不太说话。所以他现在抓住了机会。

“I’m glad you liked the book,” he said, hands in his pockets as he walked, “Wasn’t it a nice ending?”
“我很高兴你喜欢那本书，”他说，双手插在口袋里走着，“结局不错吧？”

“Yeah, great.” Remus puffed, rubbing his hip to try and get it going.
“是的，很好。”雷木斯喘着气，揉着他的髋关节试图让它动起来。

“Maurice - the character - reminded me a bit of you.”
“莫里斯——那个角色——让我有点想起了你。”

“What? Nah.” He was starting to sweat with exertion, despite the cold February air. He wiped his forehead, squinting uphill. Sirius and James were striding ahead, laughing about something together. Christopher followed his eyeline. He pressed his lips together.
“什么？不。”尽管二月的天气很冷，他还是因为用力开始出汗。他擦了擦额头，眯着眼睛往山上看。天狼星和詹姆斯在前面大步走着，一起笑着什么。克里斯托弗跟随着他的视线。他抿紧了嘴唇。

“Are you and he... ?” He couldn’t find the words, and Remus knew what that was like, so he just gave a straight answer. No need to be coy.
“你和他...？”他找不到合适的词语，而雷木斯知道那是什么感觉，所以他直接回答了。不需要含糊其辞。

“Yeah. We are.”
“是的。我们是。”

“Oh.” Christopher sounded deflated, as if he had still thought it was all a joke at his expense. “What’s that like, then?”
“哦。”克里斯托弗听起来很泄气，好像他还以为这一切都是在开他的玩笑。“那是什么感觉？”

“I dunno. Good. Great.”
“我不知道。很好。非常好。”

“I wish…” he sounded so sad, and he never finished the sentence. After a long time, and more struggling to keep up, Remus touched his shoulder gently.
“我希望...”他听起来很伤心，但没有说完这句话。过了很久，雷木斯努力跟上，他轻轻地拍了拍克里斯托弗的肩膀。

“There's someone for everyone, Chris.”
“每个人都有适合的人，克里斯。”

“Maybe.”
“也许吧。”

“Oi Moony! Come on!” Sirius was yelling. They were almost at school now, Sirius had stopped under the stone arch gateway to wait.
“喂，月亮脸！快点！”天狼星在喊。他们快到学校了，天狼星停在石拱门下等他。

“See you later, ok Remus?” Christopher muttered, hurrying off at a funny little jog. Remus ploughed on, finally reaching the school gate. His hip was screaming at him now, the joints burning, pain shooting up and down his leg. He nodded at Sirius by way of greeting, too out of breath to speak. He leaned against the stone with one arm, hoping Sirius wouldn’t mind waiting a bit longer while he pulled himself together.
“待会见，好吗，雷木斯？”克里斯托弗嘟囔着，匆匆跑开了。雷木斯继续前行，终于到达了校门。他的髋关节现在在尖叫，关节燃烧着，疼痛在腿上来回穿梭。他向天狼星点了点头，作为问候，喘不过气来说话。他用一只手靠在石头上，希望天狼星不介意再等一会儿，让他恢复一下。

“Sorry.” He panted, finally. “Hate that fucking hill.”
“对不起。”他终于喘着气说道。“讨厌那该死的山坡。”

“Are you ok?” Sirius asked, giving him a funny look. “Sorry, didn’t mean to leave you behind.”
“你还好吗？”天狼星问道，给了他一个奇怪的眼神。“对不起，不是故意把你落在后面的。”

“Fine.” Remus replied, “You know me, just a bit wonky.” He straightened up, winced, and rubbed his side again.
“没事。”雷木斯回答，“你知道我，只是有点不对劲。”他挺直了身子，皱了皱眉，又揉了揉侧面。

“Is it your hip?” Sirius had his hands on his hips now, and was giving him an up and down sort of look that was rather like Madam Pomfrey after a bad full moon.
“是你的髋关节吗？”天狼星现在双手叉腰，像庞弗雷夫人在糟糕的满月后那样上下打量着他。

“Yeah,” Remus shrugged. “s’always been a bit funny.”
“是的，”雷木斯耸了耸肩。“一直有点不对劲。”

“When you say ‘a bit funny’, do you mean that you’re in pain?”
“当你说‘有点不对劲’时，你是说你在痛吗？”

“S'just sore. ” Remus said, indignant.
“只是有点酸痛。”雷木斯愤愤地说道。

“So, pain then.” Sirius raised an eyebrow. Remus hated that superior look. “How long has it been hurting?”
“所以，是疼痛。”天狼星挑起眉毛。雷木斯讨厌那种居高临下的表情。“疼了多久了？”

“Oh, I dunno,” Remus threw his hands up, exasperated - what was the point of this?! “Since I was thirteen.”
“哦，我不知道，”雷木斯举起双手，气恼地说道——这有什么意义呢？！“从我十三岁开始。”

“Are you joking?!”
“你在开玩笑吗？！”

“Just off and on.”
“只是时不时地。”

“What does Madam Pomfrey say?”
“庞弗雷夫人怎么说？”

“Oh for god’s sake, I don't whinge to her about this sort of crap!” Remus was aware that his voice was getting louder, a few third years walking past turned and looked at him, before running away giggling.
“哦，天哪，我不会向她抱怨这种垃圾！”雷木斯意识到自己的声音越来越大，几个三年级学生经过时转头看了他一眼，然后笑着跑开了。

“You’re being ridiculous.” Sirius folded his arms and tossed his hair, “She's a nurse, she's supposed to make you feel better. What would you do if I told you I’d been in pain for five years?!”
“你太荒谬了。”天狼星双臂交叉，甩了甩头发，“她是护士，她应该让你感觉好些。如果我告诉你我疼了五年，你会怎么做？！”

“It’s not the same!”
“这不一样！”

“What are you on about??”
“你在说什么？？”

“ You’re not a fucking werew---” He stopped himself just in time. They both looked around themselves furtively, checking no one was listening in. Remus scolded himself. It had been a very long time since he’d let anyone get the better of his temper.
“你不是他妈的狼人——”他及时住了口。他们都偷偷地四下张望，检查是否有人在偷听。雷木斯责怪自己。已经很久没有让任何人激怒过他了。

Sirius leaned forward, glaring at him.
天狼星向前倾身，瞪着他。

“You don’t deserve to suffer, for fuck’s sake.” He muttered.
“你不该受这种罪，真他妈的。”他嘟囔道。

That hurt. He didn’t know why, but it struck Remus so sharply it knocked the breath out of him, and his eyes pricked. He straightened up, careful to remain expressionless this time. He jutted his chin out at Sirius, meeting his glare.
这句话伤人。他不知道为什么，但这句话狠狠地击中了雷木斯，使他喘不过气来，眼睛刺痛。他挺直身子，这次小心翼翼地保持面无表情。他抬起下巴，迎着天狼星的目光。

“I’m not talking about this any more. Come on, we’ll miss dinner.” And began to stride ahead, biting back against the stabbing in his side.
“我不再谈论这个了。走吧，我们会错过晚餐。”然后开始大步向前走，强忍着侧面的刺痛。

 

Chapter 137: Seventh Year: Remus the Martyr 

I was born with a plastic spoon in my mouth

The north side of my town faced east, and the east was facing south

And now you dare to look me in the eye

Those crocodile tears are what you cry

It's a genuine problem, you won't try

To work it out at all you just pass it by, pass it by

 

Substitute me for him

Substitute my coke for gin

Substitute you for my mum

At least I'll get my washing done.

**Wednesday 22nd February 1978**

 

The stalemate between Remus and Sirius lasted for the rest of the weekend. Sunday was the Gryffindor vs. Ravenclaw quidditch game, so they got away with not speaking much. They both sat together in the stands, cheering when it was appropriate, and booing any time the Ravenclaw’s scored.  

雷木斯和天狼星之间的僵局持续了整个周末。星期天是格兰芬多对拉文克劳的魁地奇比赛，所以他们几乎没有说话。他们都坐在看台上，在适当的时候欢呼，在拉文克劳得分时嘘声四起。

 

“Aaaand that’s another ten points to Gryffindor!” The commentator called out through the megaphone, “An overwhelming sixty points now scored by team captain James Potter, no surprises there - fans are starting to wonder what will become of the mighty lions next year when they don’t have their golden boy to depend on--oof, mind that bludger, Simms! … nicely done! Though I must say, I’d have veered left, but I suppose not everybody is chosen for their dexterity, sometimes it’s just about giving everyone a chance, regardless of ability…”  

“又是十分给格兰芬多！”解说员通过扩音器喊道，“现在队长James Potter已经得了压倒性的六十分，这不奇怪——球迷们开始想知道明年没有他们的金童依靠的强大狮子会怎样——小心那个游走球，Simms！……干得好！不过我得说，我会向左转，但我想不是每个人都因灵活而被选中，有时只是给每个人一个机会，无论能力如何……”

 

“Who let Lockhart do the commentary?” Sirius grumbled. “Stupid prat doesn’t even know anything about quidditch.”  

“谁让洛哈特来解说的？”天狼星抱怨道。“这个蠢货连魁地奇都不懂。”

 

“He told me he was lined up to play for Puddlemere,” Peter said, “And the only reason he never played for Ravenclaw was that his coach said he shouldn’t squander his gift in school games.”  

“他告诉我他被安排为Puddlemere效力，”Peter说，“他从未为拉文克劳效力的唯一原因是他的教练说他不应该在学校比赛中浪费他的天赋。”

 

“You’re so gullible, Pete,” Remus nudged him, “I know more about quidditch than that twat.”  

“你真容易上当，Pete，”雷木斯推了推他，“我比那个傻瓜懂得更多魁地奇。”

 

“Yeah, and Moony knows about as much about quidditch as you know about judging character.” Sirius added, his voice unnecessarily sharp.  

“是啊，月亮脸对魁地奇的了解就像你对判断人品的了解一样。”天狼星补充道，声音过于尖锐。

 

Remus coloured. Fine, if Sirius wanted to be passive aggressive.  

雷木斯脸色变了。好吧，如果天狼星想被动攻击的话。

 

“Well, Padfoot,” he replied, coolly, “If you want to do it so much, go and ask McGonagall. I think you’d be perfect for the job.”  

“好吧，破釜酒吧，”他冷静地回答，“如果你这么想做，那就去找McGonagall。我认为你是这个工作的最佳人选。”

 

“You-what?” Sirius gaped at him. Remus raised an eyebrow,  

“你-什么？”天狼星瞪大眼睛看着他。雷木斯扬起眉毛，

 

“Oh yeah, you’re the only person in this school who chats more shit than Lockhart does.”  

“哦，是的，你是这个学校唯一一个比洛哈特还会胡扯的人。”

 

Mary and Lily burst into giggles, covering their mouth. Sirius scowled.  

Mary和Lily笑得合不拢嘴，捂住了嘴。天狼星皱起了眉头。

 

“Up yours.” He muttered.  

“去你的。”他嘟囔道。

 

The game ended with 280 points to Gryffindor, but Sirius wasn't cheering.  

比赛以格兰芬多280分结束，但天狼星并没有欢呼。

 

Quidditch matches generally took up most of the day, from an early breakfast listening to James’s pep talks, to the inevitable after party in the common room. Sirius stayed up late, so nobody noticed that they didn’t go to bed together.  

魁地奇比赛通常占据大部分时间，从早上早饭时听James的鼓舞讲话，到公共休息室里不可避免的赛后聚会。天狼星熬夜了，所以没有人注意到他们没有一起上床睡觉。

 

By Monday, they were on slightly more civil terms - or at least, neither of them wanted any of their friends to know they’d been fighting. Remus immersed himself in his NEWT revision - if he wasn’t alone in the library, he was extending his group study sessions to run an hour longer than usual, each night. It was the week of the full moon, and he was utterly exhausted, but at least it made getting to sleep easier.  

到了星期一，他们的关系稍微缓和了一些——或者至少，他们都不希望朋友们知道他们在吵架。雷木斯沉浸在他的NEWT复习中——如果他不在图书馆一个人呆着，他就会将他的集体学习时间每晚延长一个小时。这是满月的一周，他疲惫不堪，但至少这样更容易入睡。

 

And he had to avoid Marlene too, of course. He deliberately skipped going to Madam Pomfrey’s Tuesday night healing classes, just in case the subject of werewolves reared its ugly head again. Marlene was the sort of girl who would derail an entire lesson if she thought injustice was being done somewhere.  

当然，他也不得不避开Marlene。他故意避开庞弗雷夫人周二晚上的治疗课程，以防万一狼人这个话题再次出现。Marlene是那种如果认为哪里有不公正行为就会破坏整个课程的女孩。

 

To Remus’s surprise, Gilderoy Lockhart, the smarmy Ravenclaw commentator, made a guest appearance in his Wednesday revision group. Lockhart was in the year below, and hadn’t crossed the marauder’s radar much so far. He was a bit camp and annoying, prone to laughing too loudly in the dining hall, but that was all Remus knew about him.  

令雷木斯惊讶的是，油腔滑调的拉文克劳解说员Gilderoy Lockhart出现在他周三的复习小组中。洛哈特比他们低一年级，到目前为止没有太多进入掠夺者的视线。他有点娘娘腔，令人讨厌，容易在餐厅里笑得太大声，但这就是雷木斯对他的全部了解。

 

He sidled up to Remus, his hair in ridiculous blond bouffant curls. He stank of aftershave, too.  

他凑到雷木斯身边，他的头发是滑稽的金色泡芙卷。他还散发着剃须水的臭味。

 

“Love this idea,” he gushed, “Helping other students to achieve, really great!”  

“喜欢这个主意，”他滔滔不绝地说，“帮助其他学生取得成就，真是太棒了！”

 

“Er, yeah, I s’pose.” Remus replied, shuffling his papers.  

“呃，是的，我想是的。”雷木斯回答，翻看着他的文件。

 

“Thought I’d lend a hand,” Lockhart grinned toothily, “I’m rather a whizz myself, you know. Charms, Transfiguration, Potions - you name it.”  

“我想帮把手，”洛哈特露齿一笑，“我自己也是个高手，你知道的。魔咒、变形术、魔药——你说得出我都会。”

 

“Um. Great. Cheers.” Remus nodded, “I said I’d go through anti-Giant legislation with the third years today, but have a chat with Chris,” He moved away, quickly, leaving Christopher to deal with it.  

“嗯。很好。谢谢。”雷木斯点点头，“我说过我要和三年级的学生一起学习反巨人立法，但和克里斯聊聊，”他迅速离开，让克里斯托弗去处理。

 

Wednesday was also the second official meeting of the prank-planning group, so Remus and Chris stayed back in the Charms room after study group. Chris had a vaguely dazed expression as they leaned against Flitwick’s desk, waiting.  

星期三也是恶作剧策划小组的第二次正式会议，所以雷木斯和克里斯在学习小组后留在魔咒教室。克里斯靠在Flitwick的桌子上，表情有些迷茫，等待着。

 

“Sorry about that,” Remus offered, lighting up a cigarette as Lockhart swanned out. “I dunno how to deal with him.”  

“抱歉，”雷

 

木斯说，点燃了一根香烟，看着洛哈特走出去。“我不知道该怎么应付他。”

 

“Oh, it’s fine, he’s in half my classes, so I’m used to it.” Chris replied, still looking a bit disturbed.  

“哦，没事，他上了一半的课，我已经习惯了。”克里斯回答，仍然有点不安。

 

“What did he want?”  

“他想要什么？”

 

“It took a while to figure out,” Christopher frowned, “He kept telling me how good he is at everything… but I think he wanted help with Charms.”  

“花了一段时间才弄清楚，”克里斯托弗皱着眉头说，“他一直在告诉我他在所有事情上都很擅长……但我想他需要魔咒方面的帮助。”

 

Remus snorted disdainfully.  

雷木斯轻蔑地哼了一声。

 

The prank planning session was shorter than the week before - it turned out that no one had had any decent ideas yet. The fourth year Ravenclaws had uncovered some frankly terrifying curses which they were all eager to share, but Lily stepped in, reiterating the rule that nobody ought to get hurt.  

恶作剧策划会议比上周要短——事实证明没有人有任何像样的主意。四年级的拉文克劳发现了一些坦白说令人恐惧的诅咒，他们都急于分享，但莉莉介入，重申了不应该伤害任何人的规则。

 

They split up again for the journey back to their common rooms, and Remus was faced with a choice between Marlene and Yaz or Sirius and Mary. In the end, he decided it was better the devil he knew, and chose Sirius and Mary. She did most of the talking, which was a relief, and the only awkward moment came when the boys were all back in the dormitory.  

他们再次分开回到各自的休息室，雷木斯面临在Marlene和Yaz以及天狼星和Mary之间的选择。最终，他决定选择熟悉的恶魔，选择了天狼星和Mary。她做了大部分的谈话，这让人松了口气，唯一的尴尬时刻是在男孩们都回到宿舍的时候。

 

Remus went over to his own bed, pulling back the duvet.  

雷木斯走到自己的床边，拉开羽绒被。

 

“You’re sleeping there, then?” Sirius asked, out of the blue. Remus frowned, turning to look at him. He hadn’t thought it was up for debate - they were barely speaking to each other, why on earth would they sleep together? And why on earth did Sirius want to call attention to it in front of the others?!  

“你要睡在那里吗？”天狼星突然问道。雷木斯皱眉，转头看着他。他从没想过这是可以讨论的——他们几乎不说话了，为什么他们还要睡在一起？天狼星为什么要在其他人面前引起注意？！

 

“Yeah.” He nodded, turning back, “Full moon tomorrow. Thought we should all get as much sleep as possible.”  

“是的。”他点点头，转过身，“明天是满月。我想我们应该尽量多睡些。”

 

“Yeah, fair enough.” Sirius replied. Remus climbed in and drew his curtains shut, without another word.  

“是的，公平合理。”天狼星回答。雷木斯爬进去，拉上了窗帘，没有再说一句话。

 

“Everything ok?” James whispered, very loudly. Sirius grunted a response, and that was that.  

“都好吗？”詹姆斯大声地低声说。天狼星哼了一声作为回应，就这样。

**Thursday 23rd February 1978**

 

Remus was more on edge than usual on the day of the full moon. He’d slept badly anyway, thinking about the McKinnons and Sirius and wondering how he was ever going to fix any of it.  

满月那天，雷木斯比平时更加紧张。他本来就睡得不好，想着麦金农一家和天狼星，想着如何才能修复这一切。

 

At breakfast, it looked as though Marlene had had a difficult night too. Her eyes were rimmed red, and her hair was messier than usual. Yaz and Mary sat either side of her, vying to be the one who comforted her the most.  

早餐时，Marlene似乎也度过了一个艰难的夜晚。她的眼睛红肿，头发比平时更乱。Yaz和Mary坐在她的两侧，争相安慰她。

 

“I just can’t stop thinking about him,” Marlene shook her head, staring into her bowl of cornflakes. “I’ve read so many books and accounts, and they all say it hurts a lot…”  

“我就是忍不住想起他，”Marlene摇着头，盯着她的玉米片碗。“我看了很多书和记述，都说很痛……”

 

Remus stopped eating his own breakfast, and sipped his tea instead, trying to hide his distress.  

雷木斯停止吃自己的早餐，改为喝茶，试图掩饰自己的痛苦。

 

“I’ve read that too,” Sirius said, “But I’m sure that as long as Danny asks for the help he needs he’ll be fine.”  

“我也看过那些，”天狼星说，“但我相信只要Danny寻求他需要的帮助，他会没事的。”

 

Remus tried to ignore this, seething quietly under his collar.  

雷木斯试图忽视这一点，默默地在衣领下怒火中烧。

 

“Mum’s had to take him to the ministry.” Marlene continued, miserable, “They have cells there, apparently. We asked if there would be healers present, but no one can tell me anything.”  

“妈妈不得不带他去魔法部。”Marlene继续说道，痛苦不堪，“那里显然有牢房。我们问过是否会有治疗师在场，但没有人能告诉我。”

 

“I’m sure it’s the best place,” Yaz squeezed her arm, gently.  

“我相信那是最好的地方，”Yaz轻轻握住她的手臂。

 

Nobody agreed with her. Mary pursed her lips.  

没有人同意她的看法。Mary抿着嘴唇。

 

“He doesn’t deserve this!” Marlene burst into tears, “He doesn’t deserve to be locked up alone! He’s my lovely brother, not some… some animal.”  

“他不该这样！”Marlene哭了起来，“他不该被单独关起来！他是我可爱的哥哥，不是……不是某种动物。”

 

The nausea of guilt threatened to overwhelm Remus, and he left as soon as he could. The rest of the day he could barely concentrate on his lessons. Perverse as it was, ever since the marauders had become animagi, he’d sort of looked forward to full moons at Hogwarts. It had been a while since he’d dreaded one quite so much as this.  

内疚的恶心感威胁着要淹没雷木斯，他尽快离开了。接下来的整天他几乎无法集中精力上课。虽然很扭曲，但自从掠夺者们成为阿尼玛格斯以来，他有点期待在霍格沃茨的满月。已经有一段时间他没有如此害怕过一次满月了。

 

When he arrived at Madam Pomfrey’s office in the evening, he found her frowning her way through a pile of letters. He’d never seen her doing paperwork before.  

晚上当他到达庞弗雷夫人的办公室时，发现她正在皱眉翻看一堆信件。他以前从未见过她做文书工作。

 

“Oh, hello dear,” she smiled at him, tiredly, “Shall we get going?”  

“哦，你好亲爱的，”她疲倦地对他笑了笑，“我们走吧？”

 

He nodded, and waited patiently for her to put on her cloak. She saw him staring at the letters. “They’re from ex-pupils, mostly,” she explained, “Ones who were affected by the attacks. Some of them have family members facing their first full moon, and want to know if I know anything helpful.”  

他点点头，耐心地等待她穿上斗篷。她看到他盯着那些信件。“这些主要是以前的学生写的，”她解释道，“那些受到袭击影响的人。有些人的家人正面临第一次满月，想知道我是否有任何有用的信息。”

 

“Oh.”  

“哦。”

 

“I’ve been able to pass on a bit about aftercare, but you and I know how little real information there is,” she continued, as they walked out. Remus remained mute. “I’ve had poor Miss McKinnon here every day, almost. She’s a friend of yours, isn’t she?”  

“我能传递一些关于后续护理的信息，但你我都知道真正有用的信息很少，”她继续说道，两人走了出去。雷木斯保持沉默。“可怜的McKinnon小姐几乎每天都来这里。她是你的朋友，对吧？”

 

“Yes.” Remus’s voice cracked slightly. Madam Pomfrey patted his arm, softly.  

“是的。”雷木斯的声音微微裂开。庞弗雷夫人轻轻拍了拍他的手臂。

 

“It must be very hard for you, my dear.”  

“这对你来说一定很难，亲爱的。”

 

“It’s fine.”  

“没事。”

 

“You know you can always talk to me, if you need to.”  

“你知道如果需要，你随时可以找我聊聊。”

 

“Thanks.” He could hear Sirius’s voice in the back of his head, taunting him, I told you so…  

“谢谢。”他在脑海中听到了天狼星的声音，嘲讽道，我早就告诉你了……

 

But Sirius was wrong. Physical pain was the very least of Remus’s problems, and something he was willing to bear, if he had to. It reminded him what he owed.  

但天狼星错了。身体的痛苦是雷木斯最小的问题，如果必须，他愿意忍受。这提醒了他所欠的东西。

 

Despite his apprehension, the full moon was a relief. Remus didn’t even cry out from the pain of transformation, he just let it consume him. As ashamed as it made him, it was good to become something else for a few hours; to relinquish control. The wolf was still on good terms with Padfoot, at least, and they could play and run and hunt without any messy human problems getting in the way.  

尽管担忧，满月却成了一种解脱。雷木斯甚至没有因变形的痛苦而喊叫，他只是任由其吞噬他。尽管这让他感到羞愧，但变成另一个东西几个小时还是好的；放弃控制。至少狼仍然和破釜酒吧关系不错，他们可以玩耍、奔跑和狩猎，没有任何乱七八糟的人类问题阻碍。

 

But it wasn’t to last.  

但这不会持久。

**Friday 24th February 1978**

 

The routine was standard by now. Remus transformed back, the others checked he was ok, then left, Madam Pomfrey came to collect him, he spent the morning under a sleeping draught, woke up in time for lunch, then headed back to his own bed in the afternoon.  

现在这一切已经成了常规。雷木斯变回人形，其他人检查他是否没事，然后离开，庞弗雷夫人来接他，他在早上服用了一剂催眠药水，醒来时正好是午餐时间，然后下午回到自己的床上。

 

More recently, Sirius had been coming to collect him from the infirmary, if his timetable allowed for it. (And, actually, even when his timetable didn’t allow for it - Sirius took any excuse to bunk off.) Of course, given the way Remus had been acting, he didn’t expect Sirius to come that day.  

最近，天狼星如果时间允许的话，会来接他离开医务室。（实际上，即使他的时间表不允许，天狼星也会找借口逃课。）当然，鉴于雷木斯的表现，他没指望天狼星那天会来。

 

But Sirius was always full of surprises.  

但天狼星总是充满惊喜。

 

“Brought you a frog,” he said, waiting patiently as Remus finished tying his laces. He handed over a chocolate frog box, which Remus accepted. His temper had cooled quite a bit; perhaps a good long sleep had been all he needed.  

“给你带了只青蛙，”天狼星说，耐心等待雷木斯系好鞋带。他递过一盒巧克力青蛙，雷木斯接受了。他的脾气已经平静了许多；也许一个好长的睡眠就是他所需要的。

 

“Thanks.”  

“谢谢。”

 

“Can we be ok, again?” Sirius asked, sounding genuinely sorry. “Can we both just admit we said some stupid stuff, but it’s over, now?”  

“我们能重新好吗？”天狼星问，听起来真的很抱歉。“我们都承认我们说了一些愚蠢的话，但现在已经过去了，可以吗？”

 

Remus looked at him for a long time, letting him stew a little bit. Then he smiled,  

雷木斯盯着他看了很长时间，让他稍微煎熬一下。然后他笑了，

 

“Yeah, go on then.”  

“嗯，好吧。”

 

They walked back to the tower quite happily, though Remus was pushing himself a bit harder than normal, trying not to limp or show any trace of discomfort.  

他们愉快地走回塔楼，尽管雷木斯比平时更加努力地走路，试图不跛行或显示出任何不适的迹象。

 

“Is Marlene ok?” Remus asked, as they neared the common room.  

“玛琳娜还好吗？”雷木斯问，接近公共休息室时。

 

“Yeah, think so,” Sirius nodded, “She got a letter from her mum this morning, saying Danny’s ok. Cried a bit, but she’s less of a state now.”  

“嗯，我想是的，”天狼星点头，“她今天早上收到了她妈妈的信，说Danny没事。哭了一会儿，但她现在状态好多了。”

 

“Good. That’s good.”  

“很好。那就好。”

 

They pushed through the portrait hole and walked through the common room.  

他们推开画像门，走过公共休息室。

 

“I think I’ll go straight to bed for a bit,” Remus said, making for the dorm. “If that’s ok?”  

“我想我会直接去床上休息一会儿，”雷木斯说，朝宿舍走去。“这样可以吗？”

 

“Of course!” Sirius nodded, over polite, as they headed up yet another flight of stairs. Remus was seriously struggling now, but he’d be damned if he’d let Sirius see it.  

“当然可以！”天狼星点头，非常礼貌，他们又上了一层楼。雷木斯现在确实在挣扎，但他绝不会让天狼星看到。

 

“You tired?” Remus asked.  

“累了吗？”雷木斯问。

 

“Nah,” Sirius said, “Slept all morning. Peter too.”  

“不，”天狼星说，“睡了整个早上。彼得也是。”

 

“Oh good.” Remus finally reached his bed and sat down. Without even thinking, his hand went to rub his hip. He stopped as soon as he realised, but Sirius’s eyes zeroed in on it at once. He looked Remus in the eye reproachfully.  

“哦，太好了。”雷木斯终于到达自己的床边坐下。不假思索地，他的手去揉了揉他的臀部。他意识到后立即停下，但天狼星的目光立刻锁定了这个动作。他责备地看着雷木斯。

 

“Did you speak to Madam Pomfrey?”  

“你跟庞弗雷夫人谈过了吗？”

 

“We had a lovely chat, thanks.” Remus stiffened, defences back up, “About all her poor ex-students who had to transform for the first time last night. It was really cheery.”  

“我们聊得很好，谢谢。”雷木斯僵硬了起来，重新建立起防线，“聊了一些她可怜的前学生们昨晚第一次变形的事。真是太愉快了。”

 

Sirius tutted.  

天狼星发出不满的声音。

 

“But did you talk to her about your hip?!”  

“但你跟她谈过你的臀部吗？！”

 

“No.” Remus huffed, lying down.  

“没有。”雷木斯哼了一声，躺下。

 

“Remus, stop being difficult! You see her every week! Just mention to her—I mean, I’ll do it if you want me to.”  

“雷木斯，别那么难对付！你每周都会见到她的！只要提一下——我可以替你说，如果你需要的话。”

 

“Jesus Christ, not this again! Leave me alone!” Remus sat up again.  

“天哪，又来了！别打扰我！”雷木斯再次坐起来。

 

“No!” Sirius retorted, just as viciously, “I don’t understand why you won’t tell her about it. I’m sure she could help.”  

“不！”天狼星同样激烈地反击，“我不明白你为什么不告诉她。我相信她可以帮忙。”

 

“Oh my god, why can’t you just drop it? I said I don’t want to bother her with crap like this. You’re making such a big fuss over nothing!” Remus was on his feet now, the wolf inside him wanting the higher ground; asserting dominance.  

“天啊，你为什么不能放弃？我说过我不想打扰她处理这种垃圾。你对这事大惊小怪！”雷木斯现在站起来，内心的狼想要占据更高的地位；展现主导权。

 

“And you’re avoiding your problems again!” Sirius raged, “You always do this and it’s so bloody exhausting! You think you’re being so mature, do you? Keeping everything bottled up. It’s stupid! You’re just making a martyr of yourself, it’s like you want to be miserable.”  

“你又在回避问题！”天狼星愤怒地说，“你总是这样，真是让人疲惫！你认为自己很成熟吗？把一切都藏在心里。太蠢了！你只是自我牺牲，像是想要让自己痛苦。”

 

“Oh, get fucked, Black!” Remus shouted back. “Easy for you to have a go, isn’t it?! Why do we always have to talk about my shit life, hm?! Mr ‘tell me a fucking secret’?!”  

“去你妈的，黑！”雷木斯回喊道。“你说得轻松，不是吗？！为什么我们总是要谈论我的糟糕生活？嗯？！‘告诉我一个该死的秘密’先生？！”

 

Sirius blinked, shocked, and Remus was elated; he had something now. He had Sirius in his jaws, he wasn’t letting go until he tasted blood. “What about you, Sirius?! How come we never get to talk about your fucked up family, with your death eater brother and your insane cousin?! Why don’t we talk about your pain, and your scars for a little while, see how that feels.”  

天狼星愣住了，震惊不已，雷木斯感到兴奋；他现在有了把柄。他抓住了天狼星，他不会放手，直到尝到血腥。“那你呢，天狼星？！我们怎么从来不谈论你的破碎家庭，你那个食死徒的兄弟和你那疯癫的表亲？！为什么我们不谈谈你的痛苦和伤疤，看看感觉如何。”

 

“Remus, for fuck’s sake—”  

“雷木斯，去他妈的——”

 

“No, I know! Why don’t we talk about your mother ?” Remus went in for the kill, and it was more effective than even he had expected. Sirius changed completely; his expression froze, his posture tensed, as if he’d been punched in the gut.

“我知道！为什么我们不谈谈你的母亲？”雷木斯一语致命，比他预料的还要有效。天狼星完全变了；他的表情冻结，姿态紧绷，仿佛被狠狠打了一拳。

 

Remus almost wished he had punched him, because then at least Sirius could just punch him back, and they could have a fair fight, and that would be it. But that hadn’t been fair, and he couldn’t take it back.

雷木斯几乎希望他真的打了他，因为那样至少天狼星可以还手，他们可以公平地打一架，这样就解决了。但这并不公平，他也无法收回。

 

Sirius gave him a look of utter hurt and shock, before turning quickly to anger.

天狼星给了他一个充满伤痛和震惊的眼神，然后迅速转为愤怒。

 

“Go fuck yourself, Lupin.” He spat, storming out.

“去你妈的，卢平。”他狠狠地说道，怒气冲冲地离开了。

 

“Yeah, piss off, then!” Remus shouted as the door slammed.

“是啊，那就滚吧！”雷木斯在门砰地关上时大喊。

 

He was breathing hard, and his face was very hot. He wished Sirius would come back and shout at him a bit more, so he could shout back, but he settled for chain smoking and The Sex Pistols. Fuck everybody.

他喘着粗气，脸很烫。他希望天狼星能回来再对他吼几句，这样他也可以吼回去，但他选择了接连不断地抽烟和听性手枪乐队的音乐。去他妈的所有人。

 

Sirius did not return, and Remus didn’t know where the map was, so he couldn’t look for him.

天狼星没有回来，雷木斯也不知道地图在哪里，所以他找不到他。

 

Eventually, the dorm room door did open again, and Lily and James came in, very close together and whispering happily,

最终，宿舍的门再次打开，莉莉和詹姆斯走了进来，非常亲密地在一起低声说笑。

 

“Oh, hiya Moony!” James stopped as he caught sight of Remus brooding by the window. He looked a bit sheepish, “Sorry, we thought you’d be in the hospital wing, still.”

“哦，你好啊，穆尼！”詹姆斯看到窗边沉思的雷木斯时停下了脚步，看起来有点不好意思，“抱歉，我们以为你还在医院翼呢。”

 

“No. She lets me go after lunch, normally.” Remus replied, monotone. He got up, “I’ll get out of your way.”

“没有。她通常在午饭后让我走。”雷木斯用单调的语调回答。他站起来，“我会让开。”

 

“No, no, Remus, don’t!” Lily said, flustered, “We just came up here for the quiet.”

“不要，不要，雷木斯，别这样！”莉莉慌张地说，“我们只是上来找个安静的地方。”

 

“Really?” Remus raised a sarcastic eyebrow, and Lily and James blushed, looking away.

“真的？”雷木斯讽刺地扬起眉毛，莉莉和詹姆斯脸红了，转过脸去。

 

“Where’s Padfoot?” James went over to sit on his bed.

“天狼星在哪儿？”詹姆斯走过去坐在床上。

 

“Don’t know.”

“不知道。”

 

“What?”

“什么？”

 

“Don’t know. Don’t care.” Remus withdrew another cigarette from his matchbox and lit it with the end of the last one.

“不知道。不在乎。”雷木斯从火柴盒里又拿出一支烟，用上一支烟的烟头点燃。

 

“Are you… having a fight?”

“你们……吵架了吗？”

 

“Look, stay out of it, Potter.” Remus snarled.

“看，别管这事，波特。”雷木斯咆哮道。

 

James recoiled, and looked at Lily, who shrugged back at him.

詹姆斯退缩了一下，看向莉莉，莉莉对他耸了耸肩。

 

At that very moment, as if it had been summoned just to break the tension, an owl flew in the open window, surprising all three of them. It was from the Potters, and James retrieved two letters tied to its leg. He glanced down at one and held it out to Remus.

就在那一刻，仿佛为了打破紧张气氛，一只猫头鹰飞进了敞开的窗户，吓了他们三个人一跳。是从波特家来的，詹姆斯取下系在它腿上的两封信。他看了一眼其中一封，递给雷木斯。

 

“For you, Moony.”

“给你的，穆尼。”

 

Clicking his tongue irritably, Remus got up off the sill and went to snatch it from James’s outstretched hand. He opened it, skimming the brief note from Mrs Potter, who had been so kindly forwarding all of his correspondence.

雷木斯恼火地咂了咂舌，从窗台上站起来，从詹姆斯伸出的手中抢过信。他打开信，浏览了波特夫人简短的便条，夫人一直好心地转发他的所有信件。

 

He expected another postcard from Grant, but it was a neatly folded envelope. He didn’t recognise the tidy, blue ink handwriting, but it had a muggle stamp.

他本以为是格兰特的另一张明信片，但却是一个整齐折叠的信封。他不认识那工整的蓝色墨水字迹，但信上有麻瓜的邮票。

 

He looked down at the return address, written in tiny script on the back.

他低头看了看背面用小字写的回信地址。

 

If undelivered, please return to:

如果无法投递，请退回：

 

Ms Hope Jenkins, Sparrow Ward, Cardiff City Hospital, Cardiff.

霍普·詹金斯女士，斯帕罗病房，加的夫市医院，加的夫。

 

Chapter 138: Seventh Year: Hope 

They fuck you up, your mum and dad.   

    They may not mean to, but they do.   

They fill you with the faults they had

    And add some extra, just for you.

 

But they were fucked up in their turn

    By fools in old-style hats and coats,   

Who half the time were soppy-stern

    And half at one another’s throats.

 

Man hands on misery to man.

    It deepens like a coastal shelf.

Get out as early as you can,

    And don’t have any kids yourself.





Ms Hope Jenkins.

Remus choked on his fag, then dropped it, burning a hole in his trousers. Yelping with pain, he leapt up, patting wildly at the hot patch on his thigh.

雷木斯被烟呛了一下，然后把它掉在地上，烧了他裤子上的一个洞。因为疼痛而尖叫，他跳起来，疯狂地拍打着大腿上的热斑。

 

“Remus!” Lily stared at him, alarmed, “Are you ok?!”

“雷木斯！”莉莉惊恐地看着他，“你还好吗？！”

 

“Yeah, yeah…” He picked up the cigarette and tossed it out of the window. He’d scrunched up the little envelope in his other hand. He stuffed the crumpled paper into his pocket. “Just… nipping to the loo.”

“嗯，嗯……”他捡起烟，把它扔出了窗外。他用另一只手把小信封揉成一团，塞进了口袋里。“我只是……去趟厕所。”

 

He hurried into the little bathroom and slammed the door shut, trying to regulate his breathing a bit. Ok. Ok. He ought to have expected this. He was the one who’d written to her, after all.

他匆忙走进小浴室，砰地关上了门，试图调整一下呼吸。好吧。好吧。他应该预料到这一点。毕竟是他写了信给她。

 

Remus pulled the letter out of his pocket and smoothed it out. He couldn’t have opened it in front of Lily and James; it might say anything, and he was so unprepared. He bit his lip. He wanted another cigarette, badly, but he’d just chucked the last one out of the window. Typical.

雷木斯从口袋里拿出信，展开它。他不能在莉莉和詹姆斯面前打开它；它可能会说任何事，而他又没有准备好。他咬了咬嘴唇。他非常想要另一支烟，但他刚刚把最后一支扔出了窗外。真是典型。

 

He peeled open the envelope slowly, taking care not to tear it, as if that might mean something. The paper was tissue-thin, and he unfolded it gently. The handwriting was more recognisable now. He knew it from the original letter, written all those years ago, except now it was more spindly; noticeably crooked, as though the hand had been shaking.

他慢慢地撕开信封，小心翼翼地避免撕破，好像那可能意味着什么。纸很薄，他轻轻地展开它。字迹现在更容易识别了。他从多年前的原始信件中认得出来，只是现在更细长了；明显歪斜，好像手在颤抖。

 

Dear Remus,

 

I am sorry it has taken me so long to reply to you. I am afraid I have been unwell, and I have not been at home to receive post.

 

I was so happy to hear from you. I am sorry I cannot write more, my darling, but I would love to hear how you are getting on. Please write again, to the address below.

 

Love Mum.

 

亲爱的雷木斯，

 

对不起，我回复你花了这么长时间。我担心我一直不太好，没在家收信。

 

收到你的来信我很高兴。我很抱歉不能写更多，我的亲爱的，但我很想知道你过得怎么样。请再次写信到下面的地址。

 

爱你的妈妈。

 

Remus’s own hands were shaking now. ‘Love Mum.’ What the fuck did that mean?!

雷木斯自己的手也在颤抖。“爱妈妈。”这是什么意思？！

 

He felt rage creeping up on him, ready to swallow him whole. The spat with Sirius faded into insignificance; now he was truly furious. It was an anger that had lain dormant for a long time now, but it had always been there, in the core of him. An anger that had no direction, no purpose other than filling him up with red hot mania. Maybe Greyback had put it there. Maybe Hope’s abandonment had. Right now he didn’t give a shit.

他感到愤怒在他体内蔓延，准备吞噬他。与天狼星的争吵变得微不足道；现在他真正的愤怒了。这种愤怒已经沉睡了很长时间，但它一直存在于他的核心。没有方向、没有目的，只是让他充满炙热的狂躁。也许是格雷巴克把它放在了那里。也许是霍普的抛弃。现在他不在乎。

 

Unable to control himself, he kicked the bathroom door. He kicked it so hard that he splintered the wood, cracking it right through.

他无法控制自己，踢了浴室的门。他踢得很用力，木头都裂开了，整个门都破裂了。

 

“Fuck.” He muttered. “Ow.” He hoped he hadn’t broken a toe.

“该死。”他喃喃道。“疼。”他希望自己没有踢断脚趾。

 

“Oh my god, Remus?!” Lily’s voice sang out again.

“哦我的天，雷木斯？！”莉莉的声音再次传来。

 

“Sorry.” He said, almost on instinct, as he wrenched his foot free from the door. He unlocked it.

“对不起。”他几乎是本能地说道，一边从门上抽回脚来。他解锁了门。

 

James was standing right there, his eyes big and wide, Lily just behind him, as if he was shielding her from Remus.

詹姆斯正站在那里，眼睛睁得大大的，莉莉就在他身后，好像他在保护她不受雷木斯的伤害。

 

“What the bloody hell are you playing at?!” James said, his voice hard. “Look, if you’re having a tiff with Padfoot then sort it out between you, don’t start tearing our room apart!”

“你到底在搞什么鬼？！”詹姆斯声音严厉地说道。“看看，如果你和天狼星有点争执，那就自己解决，别开始搞砸我们的房间！”

 

“Sorry.” Remus said again, feeling quite small. He’d never been told off by James before; it was scarier than he’d expected.

“对不起。”雷木斯再次说道，感觉自己很渺小。他以前从未被詹姆斯训斥过；这比他预期的要吓人。

 

“Remus?” Lily pushed her boyfriend aside, impatiently, “What’s wrong?”

“雷木斯？”莉莉不耐烦地推开她的男朋友，“怎么了？”

 

He shook his head, looking down at the letter in his hands. His shoulders slumped. He was still breathing too hard to be able to speak. He handed it to her.

他摇了摇头，低头看着手中的信。肩膀垂落。他仍然喘着粗气，无法说话。他把信递给了她。

 

Lily gave him a quizzical look, but took the paper from him. As she read it, her eyes grew bigger and her mouth dropped open. James read it over her shoulder, and soon enough their expressions matched. Remus couldn’t seem to get his breathing under control; he wasn’t quite sure what was happening. His chest grew very tight, as if all the air had been sucked out of the room. He suddenly felt very hot and very dizzy, and he was seeing stars.

莉莉给了他一个疑惑的眼神，但接过了纸。当她阅读时，她的眼睛变得更大，嘴巴张开了。詹姆斯从她肩膀上读了一遍，很快他们的表情也变得一致。雷木斯似乎无法控制自己的呼吸；他不太确定发生了什么。他的胸口变得非常紧绷，仿佛房间里的空气都被抽走了。他突然感到非常热，非常眩晕，眼前出现了星星。

 

He stumbled, clutching the door frame for dear life.

他踉跄着，紧紧抓住门框，生怕掉下去。

 

“Remus?!” Lily’s voice came to him in an echo, as if he was at the bottom of a deep well. Her soft hands were on his shoulders, and she guided him down towards the floor - which was a good thing, because his legs had just decided to give up. She started rubbing his back slowly, and was speaking very calmly, “Deep breaths, Remus, do you hear me? In through your mouth, then out through your nose, ok? With me; one… two… three…”

“雷木斯？！”莉莉的声音在他耳边回响，好像他在深井底部。她柔软的手搭在他的肩膀上，她把他引导到地板上——这还不错，因为他的腿已经决定放弃了。她开始慢慢地揉他的背，声音非常平静地说：“深呼吸，雷木斯，你听到我说话了吗？通过嘴巴吸气，然后从鼻子呼气，好吗？跟我一起；一……二……三……”

 

He didn’t know what sort of magic that was, but it started to work, and after ten deep breaths he began to feel normal

 

 again. His vision clearing, he looked up. Lily was sitting beside him on the dusty bedroom floor. James was standing over them, looking worried. He had the letter.

他不知道那是什么魔法，但它开始奏效了，十次深呼吸之后，他开始感觉正常了。视线变得清晰，他抬起头。莉莉坐在他身边，坐在尘土飞扬的卧室地板上。詹姆斯站在他们身边，看起来很担心。他拿着信。

 

“Thanks,” Remus said, still short of breath, “Sorry, I dunno what happened there.”

“谢谢，”雷木斯说道，仍然气喘吁吁，“对不起，我不知道刚才发生了什么。”

 

“My sister has funny turns like that all the time, when she gets anxious,” Lily explained. “Got anything sweet? She normally has a biscuit after the worst has passed.”

“我姐姐经常会有那种奇怪的发作，当她感到焦虑的时候，”莉莉解释道。“有甜的东西吗？她通常在最糟糕的情况过去后会吃一块饼干。”

 

“Um… yeah.” Remus delved into his pocket for the chocolate frog Sirius had given him earlier. He unwrapped it and bit the head off, quickly. His mouth filled with rich sweetness, and he really did feel much better.

“嗯……有。”雷木斯从口袋里拿出之前天狼星给他的巧克力青蛙。他快速地拆开包装，咬掉了头。嘴里充满了浓郁的甜味，他确实感觉好多了。

 

He tried to get up, and James immediately offered a steady arm to help,

他试着站起来，詹姆斯立即伸出稳固的手臂来帮助，

 

“Sorry I had a go, Moony,” he said, still sounding very worried, “I was a right dick.”

“对不起我刚才说了那些，穆尼，”他说，声音仍然非常担心，“我真的很傻。”

 

“No, I shouldn’t have broken the door…” Remus replied, carefully brushing his trousers down and walking to his bed to sit.

“没事，我不该打破门……”雷木斯回答说，小心地整理裤子，走到床边坐下。

 

“Oh, that’s nothing,” Lily got up and withdrew her wand, “Reparo. See?”

“哦，那没什么，”莉莉站起来，拿出她的魔杖，“修复咒。看？”

 

“Can I have the letter back?” Remus asked, weakly.

“我可以拿回信吗？”雷木斯虚弱地问。

 

“Yeah, sorry!” James hurried to pass it back. Remus read it again. His stomach tightened, but he didn’t get dizzy again. Love Mum. “I didn’t know you’d sent her a letter.” James said. “I didn’t know you even knew where she was.”

“是的，对不起！”詹姆斯急忙把信递回来。雷木斯再次读了一遍。他的胃收紧了，但没有再感到眩晕。“爱妈妈。”詹姆斯说。“我不知道你给她写了信。我不知道你甚至知道她在哪里。”

 

“Your parents helped me.” Remus said, still re-reading. “I only told Sirius about it.”

“是你的父母帮了我。”雷木斯说，仍然在重读。“我只告诉了天狼星。”

 

“Oh, love,” Lily came to sit by him, she squeezed his hand. “Are you going to write back?”

“哦，亲爱的，”莉莉走过来坐在他身边，握住他的手。“你打算回信吗？”

 

Remus looked up, staring ahead. He made a decision.

雷木斯抬头望着前方。他做出了决定。

 

“No. I’m going to see her.”

“不。我打算去见她。”

 

“Oh!” Lily squeaked, “Yes, of course… er… I bet McGonagall would help you arrange it for the weekend, maybe--”

“哦！”莉莉尖叫道，“是的，当然……呃……我敢打赌麦格教授会帮你安排周末去见她，也许——”

 

“No.” Remus shook his head, “I’m going right now.”

“不。”雷木斯摇头，“我现在就去。”

 

“What?!” James said.

“什么？！”詹姆斯说道。

 

“I’ve waited long enough.” Remus said. “I’ve got the address. I’m going.”

“我等得够久了。”雷木斯说道。“我有地址。我现在就去。”

 

“Remus, don’t you want to just have a think--” Lily started.

“雷木斯，你不想考虑一下——”莉莉开口。

 

“No.” Remus said, pulling his hand away from her.

“不。”雷木斯说道，抽回了他的手。

 

His hand brushed against the cigarette burn in his leg. Bugger. Where was he going to get another pair? Better try a mending spell once he’d calmed down a bit. He got up and went to his trunk to find a clean pair of trousers. Couldn’t meet his mother with cigarette burns on his clothes, could he?

他的手碰到了腿上的烟烧伤。糟糕。他要去哪儿找另一条裤子？最好在冷静下来后试试修复咒语。他站起来，走到行李箱前找一条干净的裤子。不能穿着有烟烧伤的衣服去见妈妈，对吧？

 

“No thinking.” He said to Lily. “She’s in a hospital, god knows why, but I might not have long.”

“别想太多。”他说给莉莉。“她在医院里，天知道为什么，但我可能没时间了。”

 

He undressed without even thinking. Lily looked away, quickly, blushing, but he didn't care. “Prongs,” he said, “Can I have your cloak?”

他没有多想就脱了衣服。莉莉迅速转过脸去，脸红了，但他不在乎。“角鹿，”他说，“我可以借你的斗篷吗？”

 

“Of course.” James nodded, without hesitation.

“当然。”詹姆斯毫不犹豫地点了点头。

 

“Thanks. I’m going to try and apparate from Honeyduke’s, I think. Shouldn’t be gone all night, I can be back before curfew, I bet.”

 

“谢谢。我打算试着从霍尼杜克的糖果店使用消失术。我想不会整晚不在，我敢打赌我能在宵禁之前回来。”

“Good plan.” James nodded.  

“好主意。”詹姆斯点头道。

 

“How are you going to get to Honeyduke’s?!” Lily asked, looking very confused. Remus looked at James, curiously. The other boy gave a sheepish chuckle and pushed his glasses up his nose.  

“你打算怎么去霍尼杜克的糖果店？！”莉莉问，看起来非常困惑。雷木斯好奇地看着詹姆斯。另一个男孩不好意思地笑了笑，推了推眼镜。

 

“Er… there's sort of a secret passageway…”  

“呃……其实有一条秘密通道……”

 

Less than half an hour later, they had passed the hunchbacked witch statue and were about to begin the journey to Hogsmeade. They’d hurriedly dressed in muggle clothes, something Lily had suggested almost at the very last minute. James had wanted to tell Sirius and Peter, but Remus refused. Peter couldn’t apparate anyway, and Remus didn’t have room for Sirius in his head right now. Luckily, James respected this reasoning.  

不到半小时，他们穿过了驼背女巫的雕像，准备开始前往霍格斯梅德的旅程。他们匆忙换上了麻瓜衣服，这是莉莉几乎在最后一刻才建议的。詹姆斯本想告诉天狼星和彼得，但雷木斯拒绝了。彼得反正无法使用消失术，而雷木斯现在脑子里没空间容下天狼星。幸运的是，詹姆斯尊重了这个理由。

 

“How many more secrets do you lot have?!” Lily was whispering, staring about her as they progressed along the dark tunnel.  

“你们还有多少秘密？！”莉莉在黑暗的隧道中低声问道，四处张望。

 

“Does she know about the map?” Remus asked, innocently.  

“她知道那个地图吗？”雷木斯无辜地问。

 

“What map?! Potter! What map??”  

“什么地图？！波特！什么地图？？！”

 

They weren’t really fighting. It was just part of the fun, for Lily and James, all the bickering. They’d spent so many years doing it already they just didn’t know how to stop. Remus liked it. It kept his mind off everything else.  

他们并没有真正争吵。这只是莉莉和詹姆斯的乐趣之一，所有的争吵。他们已经这样做了这么多年，以至于不知道怎么停下来。雷木斯喜欢这样。它让他的注意力从其他事情上转移开。

 

Because he’d calmed down now, and the rational thoughts were starting to creep back in. Where are you going? Why would you think she wants to see you, after all these years? You’ll get caught out of bounds and expelled, and you’ll drag Lily and James down with you.  

因为他现在已经平静下来，理性的思维开始回到脑海里。你要去哪里？你怎么会认为她想见你，毕竟这些年过去了？你会被抓到禁区并被开除，还会拖累莉莉和詹姆斯。

 

And Sirius. He wanted more than anything to have Sirius nearby, if only they weren’t fighting. Perhaps he’d brought this all on himself, invoking Sirius’s mother like that. Oh god, what if Hope was like Walpurga?!  

还有天狼星。他最希望天狼星在身边，只要他们不再争吵。也许他是自作自受，挑起了天狼星的母亲。哦，天哪，要是霍普像沃尔普加一样怎么办？！

 

But he pressed on, because he’d come this far now. Soon enough they were in the cellar of Honeyduke’s and all memorising the hospital address, preparing to apparate.  

但他坚持下去，因为他已经走到了这一步。不久，他们便到了霍尼杜克糖果店的地下室，大家都记住了医院的地址，准备使用消失术。

 

That part was easy. Remus was so full of emotions and adrenaline that he barely had to turn his head and he was whooshing through space, following the current of magic towards Cardiff. Lily and James landed moments later, holding hands.  

那部分很简单。雷木斯充满了情绪和肾上腺素，他几乎没转头就飞速穿过了空间，沿着魔法的流向卡迪夫。莉莉和詹姆斯几分钟后也着陆了，手牵着手。

 

“This is Wales, then,” Lily said, looking around at the quiet city street they found themselves on. “Never been before.”  

“这是威尔士，”莉莉环顾四周说道，“我以前从未来过。”

 

“Me neither.” James and Remus replied in unison.  

“我也没来过。”詹姆斯和雷木斯异口同声地回答。

 

“Let’s look for the hospital, then,” she smiled. She dropped James’s hand and took Remus’s instead, half leading him to the end of the road.  

“那我们找找医院吧，”她笑了笑。她放开了詹姆斯的手，拉着雷木斯走到路的尽头。

 

They’d overshot by only a street or two. The main building was ornate, old and red brick, the rest of it ‘60s grey concrete. It had that cold institutional atmosphere which reminded Remus too much of St Edmund’s.  

他们只偏离了一两条街道。主楼是古雅的红砖建筑，其余的则是60年代的灰色混凝土。那种冷漠的机构气氛让雷木斯太过于想起圣埃德蒙兹。

 

“Right!” Lily said, brightly, facing a large map of the building, beneath a signpost pointing in various directions. “It was Sparrow ward, wasn’t it… so that's… over there.”  

“好！”莉莉开心地说道，面对着一块大地图，上面有各种方向的指示牌。“是斯帕罗病房，对吧……那就是……那边。”

 

She set off again, and Remus was so, so glad she was there, because everything in him was telling him to run away and never look back. Sparrow was in one of the concrete blocks. They stopped just outside.  

她再次出发，雷木斯非常感激她在身边，因为他内心的每一部分都告诉他要逃跑，永远不要回头。斯帕罗在其中一个混凝土建筑块里。他们在外面停下。

 

“Um… Lily? James?” Remus said, holding them back. “Do you mind… not coming with me? I just… I want to do it by myself. Sorry.”  

“嗯……莉莉？詹姆斯？”雷木斯说道，拉住他们。“你们介意……不要跟着我吗？我只是……我想自己来。对不起。”

 

“Of course.” Lily said, patting his shoulder. “We’ll wait right here, right James?”  

“当然。”莉莉拍了拍他的肩膀。“我们就在这里等着，好吗詹姆斯？”

 

“Ok.” James nodded, carefully, “Moony, are you sure you don’t want me to get--”  

“好的。”詹姆斯点了点头，小心地说：“穆尼，你确定不让我去找——”

 

“He won’t come.” Remus said, with absolute certainty. “You were right, we did have a fight. I was awful to him, I said some really shitty stuff. He’s angry and he's got a right to be.”  

“他不会来的。”雷木斯肯定地说道。“你说得对，我们确实吵架了。我对他很糟糕，说了一些很恶心的话。他生气是有理由的。”

 

“Yeah, but still--”  

“是的，但……”

 

“It's fine, Prongs.” Remus assured him, “I’m fine. Ok, I’m going in now.”  

“没事的，角鹿。”雷木斯安慰道，“我没事。好了，我现在要进去了。”

 

“Good luck!” Lily smiled. He nodded, grimly, and approached the revolving doors.  

“祝好运！”莉莉微笑道。他严肃地点了点头，走向旋转门。

 

Inside the hospital there were signs pointing in all sorts of directions, and three times Remus had to go back on himself because he’d taken a wrong turn, or got in the wrong lift somewhere. It was an awful place; it stank of sickness and piss and disinfectant masking blood and death. Remus’s nerve was weakening by the minute.  

医院内部有各种各样的指示牌，雷木斯三次走错了路，要么走错了电梯，要么走错了转弯。这个地方很糟糕；空气中弥漫着疾病、尿液和消毒剂掩盖着血液和死亡的气味。雷木斯的神经每分钟都在减弱。

 

Finally, he passed through a set of double doors with ‘Sparrow’ printed neatly above in blue and white. It led to a quieter corridor, with a nurses station at the end and lots of light open rooms with neat rows of people

 

 lying in beds.  

终于，他穿过了一扇印有‘斯帕罗’的双开门，走进了一个较安静的走廊，走廊尽头有一个护士站，旁边是许多明亮的开放病房，整齐地排列着躺在床上的人们。

 

Remus shuffled along to the nurses station, trying to get a look at the names of the patients listed on the wall behind.  

雷木斯慢慢走到护士站，试图看清墙上列出的病人名字。

 

“Who’re you looking for, lovie?” A plump nurse asked him with a pleasant smile.  

“你在找谁，亲爱的？”一个丰满的护士带着愉快的微笑问他。

 

“Um. Hope Jenkins…” Remus mumbled.  

“嗯。霍普·詹金斯……”雷木斯喃喃道。

“Ah! Relative, are you?”  

“啊！是亲属吗？”

“Yes. I’m her son.”  

“是的。我是她的儿子。”

“Oh, she’ll be so pleased! She talks about her kids all the time, does Hope. Just follow me, pet.”  

“哦，她会很高兴的！霍普总是谈论她的孩子们。跟我来吧，亲爱的。”

 

He didn’t have time to be stunned by this latest revelation that his mother had ‘kids’, plural. Speechless, Remus followed the nurse down the squeaky green lino corridor, onto a ward with six or eight beds in it. She led him to the far window, where light poured in. “Hope, my love, you’ve got a visitor! Your boy’s come up to see you, isn’t that nice?”  

他没有时间对这个最新的发现感到震惊，霍普竟然有“孩子们”，复数。雷木斯无言地跟着护士走过发出吱吱声的绿色塑料地板，来到一个有六或八张床的病房。她把他带到远处的窗边，光线洒进来。“霍普，我的爱，你有一个访客！你的孩子来见你了，不是很好吗？”

 

The nurse ushered him in, and he stood at the end of the bed, helplessly. The woman lying in the bed looked as though she had been dozing, though she was propped up in a half-sitting position. She was blinking now, disoriented, and frowned slightly at the nurse.  

护士把他引进房间，他站在床尾，无助地看着。躺在床上的女人看起来像是刚刚打了个盹，虽然她半坐着。她现在在眨眼，迷茫地皱着眉头看着护士。

 

“Who?” She spoke in a quiet, hoarse voice, still confused until her dark eyes landed on Remus. Her pale eyebrows shot up. “Oh.” She said.  

“谁？”她用沙哑的声音问，直到她的黑色眼睛落在雷木斯身上。她的苍白眉毛立刻抬起。“哦。”她说道。

 

“Hello.” He waved, feeling stupid.  

“你好。”他挥了挥手，感觉自己很愚蠢。

 

“I’ll give you two some privacy,” the nurse was saying now, drawing the pale hospital curtains around the bed, “Can I get anyone a cup of tea?”  

“我给你们俩留些隐私，”护士一边说着，一边拉上了床周围的淡色窗帘，“我可以给你们拿杯茶吗？”

 

“No thank you.” They both replied, still staring at each other.  

“不，谢谢。”他们俩回答道，仍然盯着彼此。

 

She was very small, and very frail. Skeletal, even; her bones and tendons showing through the skin. She looked much older than Remus had imagined; but perhaps that was just the illness. Her face was sunken, and had a morbid, skull-like quality. He remembered how lovely she’d looked in her photograph, and how pretty she might still be, if she was well.  

她非常小，且非常脆弱。甚至可以说是骨瘦如柴；她的骨头和肌腱从皮肤下显现出来。她看起来比雷木斯想象的要老得多；但也许这只是疾病的缘故。她的脸凹陷了，有一种病态的、骷髅般的特质。他记得她在照片中的模样是多么美丽，以及如果她健康的话，可能还会有多么漂亮。

 

More alert now, her watery black eyes stared up at him, with an almost greedy glint; as if she was absorbing every inch of his gangly frame. He stood still, and let her.  

现在她变得更加警觉，她那水汪汪的黑眼睛盯着他，好像她要吸收他每一寸瘦长的身体。他站着不动，让她看。

 

“Oh,” she whispered, hoarsely. Her eyes filled with tears. “Oh, you look just like him.”  

“哦，”她喃喃道，声音沙哑。她的眼睛充满了泪水。“哦，你真像他。”

 

So this was his mother. He looked down at her and felt nothing at all.  

这就是他的母亲。他低头看着她，却什么也没有感觉。

 

He cleared his throat,  

他清了清喉咙，

 

“I got your letter.” He didn’t know what else to say. He wished he hadn’t come at all.  

“我收到了你的信。”他不知道还该说些什么。他希望自己根本没来过。

 

“You didn’t have to come.” She replied, softly. “I didn’t dare ask you to. But I did want to see you. I’ve wanted to see you… for years.” She closed her eyes and the tears ran tracks down her thin face.  

“你不必来。”她轻声说道。“我不敢让你来。但我确实想见你。我想见你……已经很多年了。”她闭上了眼睛，泪水沿着她瘦削的脸颊流下。

 

He bit his tongue. All sorts of foul, nasty things boiled in his throat, wanting to be spoken. But what use was it? She was clearly dying, he could smell it on her. Angry words would make no difference. She spoke again. “You’re at Hogwarts?”  

他咬了咬嘴唇。各种恶心的、让人厌恶的东西在他喉咙里翻腾，想要说出来。但有什么用呢？她显然已经快死了，他能闻到她身上的气味。愤怒的话语毫无意义。她再次开口问道：“你在霍格沃茨吗？”

 

“Yeah,” he nodded. “Final year.”  

“是的，”他点头道。“最后一年。”

“He’d be so pleased. Lyall. Your father.”  

“他会很高兴的。莱尔。你的父亲。”

Silence again. Remus didn’t want to look at her for too long. She looked so sad, so very weak and sick. “Is there anything you want to ask me?”  

再次陷入沉默。雷木斯不想长时间看着她。她看起来如此悲伤，如此虚弱和生病。“你有什么想问我的吗？”

Remus shrugged. This was more horrible than he could have imagined. She laughed, softly,  

雷木斯耸耸肩。这比他想象的更糟糕。她轻声笑了笑，

“You won’t hurt my feelings, you know. This might be your only chance.”  

“你不会伤害我的感情的，你知道的。这可能是你唯一的机会。”

She swallowed, when he still did not speak. “All right then, I’ll just tell you. I’m sorry for what I did. I’m not proud. I loved your father more than… well, I loved him with all of my heart. He was everything to me, I wish you could have known him. When you were hurt, and he died… I just didn’t know what to do. I was so young, I was alone. I hadn’t seen my own family in years, and I didn’t even know the neighbours because Lyall said we had to keep things secret.”  

她吞了吞口水，当他仍然没有说话时。“好了，我就告诉你。我为我所做的事感到抱歉。我不骄傲。我比任何事都更爱你的父亲……我全心全意地爱他。他对我来说是一切，我希望你能认识他。当你受伤了，他去世了……我真不知道该怎么办。我还很年轻，我一个人。我已经多年没见到自己的家人了，也根本不认识邻居，因为莱尔说我们必须保密。”

 

She was Welsh, he recognised the accent now. The way she spoke his father’s name in two gentle syllables - Ly-all. He felt stupid for not realising, seeing as they were in Cardiff, but still. No one had ever told him she was Welsh. He supposed it wasn’t pertinent information to anyone but him.  

她是威尔士人，他现在识别出了口音。她用两个轻 柔的音节来念他父亲的名字——莱·尔。他觉得自己很愚蠢，因为他们在加的夫，但仍然没有意识到这一点。没有人告诉过他她是威尔士人。他想这可能对除了他以外的任何人都不重要。

“Look,” he said, “It’s fine, you don’t have to explain.”  

“看，”他说，“没关系，你不必解释。”

 

“I’ve thought about you,” she said, desperately, “Every day. My boy, my poor little boy.”  

“我一直在想你，”她绝望地说，“每天。我孩子，我可怜的小宝贝。”

 

“Don’t.” He said, feeling uncomfortable - frightened, even. “It’s ok, please don’t…”  

“不要。”他说，感到不安——甚至有些害怕。“没事的，请不要……”

 

He sat down in the stiff backed hospital chair beside her. He didn’t reach for her, or hold her hand, that felt like too much.  

他坐在她旁边那张僵硬靠背的医院椅子上。他没有伸手去碰她，也没有握她的手，这感觉太过了。

 

“I thought it was the best thing,” she wept, the tears tickling down into the pillow she lay on, “I couldn’t have looked after you, you were so strong, even when you were that small. I had to lock you up, you were so frightened and you were crying for me and I couldn’t go in…”  

“我觉得这是最好的办法，”她哭泣着，眼泪滴落在她躺着的枕头上，“我不能照顾你，你那么坚强，即使你那么小。我不得不把你锁起来，你那么害怕，你在哭着叫我，我却不能进去……”

 

He felt as if a heavy block of ice had settled in the pit of his stomach. He just wanted her to stop talking, he didn’t want to hear this,  

他感觉像是一块沉重的冰块沉在了胃底。他只想让她停止说话，他不想听这些，

 

“You did the right thing.” He said, “You did. You did everything you could, I never blamed you.”  

“你做对了。”他说，“你做对了。你做了你能做的一切，我从未责怪过你。”

 

That was true. He’d blamed his father over and over again in his head, hated him fiercely for years. But he had somehow felt more sympathy for his mother, a muggle who was left just as much at sea by Lyall’s death as he was.  

这是真的。他在脑海中一再责怪父亲，多年来对他充满了强烈的仇恨。但他对母亲的同情却更深，她是个麻瓜，像他一样对莱尔的死感到茫然。

 

“Does it still… happen?” She asked, her eyes big. They were the same greeny brown as his own. He nodded,  

“现在还会……发生吗？”她问，眼睛睁得大大的。她的眼睛和他的相似。雷木斯点了点头，

 

“It’s not as bad,” he lied, “I have help. It’s safer.”  

“没那么糟糕了，”他撒谎道，“我有帮助。更安全了。”

 

She looked relieved, which made him happy.  

她看起来松了口气，这让他感到高兴。

 

“And school? I bet you’re as clever as your dad!”  

“那学校呢？我敢打赌你和你父亲一样聪明！”

 

“I like school,” he said, “I do pretty well.” He wasn’t sure what else to say about it, “I er… I have his wand. Lyall’s.”  

“我喜欢学校，”他说，“我做得很好。”他不确定还能说些什么，“那个，我……我有他的魔杖。莱尔的。”

 

She smiled, paper white thin stretching over her hollow face, like a skull.  

她微笑了，纸一样白的笑容拉伸在她凹陷的脸上，像骷髅。

 

“And do you… have someone? In your life, looking after you?”  

“那你……有谁吗？在你的生活中，照顾你的人？”

 

“I…” He thought Lily and James, and Peter and Grant, and Madam Pomfrey, and Mary and Marlene, and even Professor McGonagall. And Sirius. “Yeah, I do. I have friends.”  

“我……”他想到莉莉和詹姆斯，还有彼得和格兰特，麦格教授，玛丽和玛琳，甚至是教授。还有天狼星。“是的，我有。我有朋友。”

 

He glanced at the record player on her bedside table, and the little pile of records on the chair. The Beatles, Cliff Richard, The Kinks. “Are these yours?” He asked, genuinely curious for the first time.  

他瞥了一眼她床头桌上的唱片机，还有椅子上的那一小堆唱片。《披头士》、《克里夫·理查德》、《金斯》。 “这些是你的吗？”他第一次真正好奇地问道。

 

“Oh yes,” she nodded, “Love a bit of a dance, I do. Lyall was the reader, but I’m happiest with a nice pop song. He used to tease me.”  

“哦，是的，”她点头道，“我喜欢跳舞。莱尔是读书的，但我最喜欢的是听流行歌曲。他常常取笑我。”

 

Her accent was lovely, a sweet, friendly up and down. He was glad she wasn’t posh; he hoped he didn’t sound too common for her.  

她的口音很可爱，甜美友善地上下起伏。他很高兴她并不高傲；他希望自己说话的方式不会显得太普通。

 

“I like music too.” He said, softly. He couldn’t bring himself to raise his voice, but she didn’t mind. “David Bowie, mostly.”  

“我也喜欢音乐。”他说，声音很柔和。他没有勇气提高声音，但她并不介意。“大卫·鲍伊，主要是。”

 

“You must take after me,” she said, sleepily, still smiling. “My bouncy little boy. I used to set you down on the rug while I did the housework, and play my records and you’d jump around on your bottom and wriggle like you were dancing. Love Me Do was playing on the radio when you took your first steps.”  

“你一定像我，”她困倦地说，仍然微笑着。“我那活泼的小宝贝。我过去做家务时会把你放在地毯上，放我的唱片，你会在地上跳来跳去，像是在跳舞。你第一次走路时收音机里放着《Love Me Do》。”

 

She’d grown tearful, saying all this, her eyes had welled up.  

她说这些话时已经泪水盈眶。

 

“I think I remember,” he said, quickly – it was a lie, but it would make her happy. He didn’t want her to be this sad, not for his sake. Without thinking, he reached out and took her hand, gently, as if she might shatter. It was a very little hand – she was a very little woman. “I love the Beatles,” he said, “Always have.”  

“我想我记得，”他说，迅速地——这是一个谎言，但这会让她开心。他不希望她因他而如此伤心。在没有思考的情况下，他伸出手，轻轻握住她的手，仿佛她会破碎。这是一只非常小的手——她是个非常小的女人。“我喜欢披头士，”他说，“一直都喜欢。”

 

She beamed. Even through the hollow cheeks and dark eyes of her illness, she had a lovely smile. Hope squeezed her son’s hand and smiled up at him, and they were comfortable like that for quite some time. Remus felt the stirring of something towards her – something warm and old and familiar.  

她露出了笑容。即使在她生病的凹陷脸颊和黑眼睛中，她也有着美丽的微笑。霍普握住儿子的手，抬头对他微笑，他们就这样舒适地待了一段时间。雷木斯感受到了一种温暖、古老而熟悉的情感在她身上涌动。

 

Eventually he offered to put some music on for her.  

最终，他提议为她放点音乐。

 

“Oh, the player’s broken.” She replied.  

“哦，播放器坏了。”她回答道。

 

“Really? Let me see…” Remus fumbled in his pocket for his wand, and gave the black wooden box a tap. He did it without letting go of her hand, and she made a small sound of delight and pride, seeing him use magic.  

“真的？让我看看……”雷木斯在口袋里摸索他的魔杖，轻轻敲了敲那个黑色木箱。他在没有放开她的手的情况下做了这个动作，她看到他施展魔法时发出了小小的愉悦和自豪的声音。

 

The record began to turn, and the sound which came out was clear and lovely. It was a Fairport Convention record; Remus had never bothered with them much before; too hippie for him. But she smiled as Sandy Denny’s larksong voice began to fill the room. So he listened.  

唱片开始转动，发出的声音清晰而美妙。这是一张Fairport Convention的唱片；雷木斯以前从未太在意这些；对他来说太嬉皮了。但她微笑着，当桑迪·丹尼的燕雀歌声开始充满房间时。他于是静静地听着。

Across the evening sky, all the birds are leaving

But how can they know it's time for them to go?

Before the winter fire, I will still be dreaming.

I have no thought of time.

For who knows where the time goes?

Who knows where the time goes?

 

They both sat listening quietly to the music, and Remus saw that he got some of his shyness from her, maybe. She never held eye contact too long, and never pushed him into talking. Remus had a sense that they could sit in contented silence like that for hours, and understand each other just as well as if they’d done nothing but talk.  

他们两个静静地坐着听音乐，雷木斯发现自己或许继承了她的一些羞怯。她从不长时间保持眼神接触，也从不逼他开口。雷木斯有种感觉，他们可以这样心满意足地静坐几个小时，彼此了解得和他们一直交谈一样好。

 

In a little while, the nurse came back. It was already after visiting hours, she said, and Matron would be on her case. Remus didn’t want to go, and Hope didn’t want him to leave.  

不久之后，护士回来了。她说已经过了探视时间，护士长会找她麻烦。雷木斯不想离开，霍普也不想让他走。

 

“Will you come back?” She pleaded, turning weepy again.  

“你会回来吗？”她恳求道，再次变得泪水盈眶。

 

“I will.” He promised. “As soon as I can, I will.”  

“我会的。”他承诺道。“只要我能，就会回来的。”

 

She pulled his hand to her lips. She was very weak, but he let her. She kissed his scarred knuckles.  

她把他的手拉到嘴唇上。她非常虚弱，但他让她这样做。她吻了他伤痕累累的指关节。

 

“I love you, my darling.”  

“我爱你，我的亲爱的。”

 

Something inside him broke when he realised he couldn’t say it back. He didn’t know how to say it and mean it.  

当他意识到自己不能回应时，内心有种东西崩溃了。他不知道怎么说出这句话并且真心实意。

 

“I’ll see you soon.” He promised again, hoping she didn’t mind too much.  

“我很快会再见到你。”他再次承诺，希望她不要太在意。

 

He left the room in a daze, and it was a miracle he managed to get out of the hospital at all. It must have taken twice as long as it took him to get in.  

他恍惚地离开了房间，能够顺利离开医院简直是一个奇迹。他离开医院的时间肯定是进来的两倍长。

 

Outside, it had grown dark. Lily was sitting on a bench, with a big black dog at her side. She stood up, the street light behind her illuminating her hair, seeming to set it alight; a halogen halo.  

外面已经变暗了。莉莉坐在长椅上，旁边有一只大黑狗。她站了起来，身后的路灯照亮了她的头发，仿佛点燃了一圈氙气灯光环。

 

“Alright, Moony?” She asked, eyes serious.  

“怎么样，月亮？”她问，眼神严肃。

He shrugged, speechless. Instantly, Lily stepped forward and wound her arms around his waist, laying her head against his chest and squeezing. He wrapped his arms around her, gratefully, and hugged her back, bowing his head to inhale the lovely apple skin smell of her. He was crying, and Sirius was right there, but he didn’t care, he just let Lily keep squeezing him, feeling as if she was holding him together. He could hear Padfoot whining and panting. Finally, he broke away, rubbing his eyes.  

他耸了耸肩，无法言语。莉莉立即向前一步，将双臂绕在他的腰间，把头靠在他的胸前，紧紧拥抱着他。他感激地环抱着她，低下头吸入她身上那迷人的苹果香味。他在哭泣，而天狼星就在旁边，但他并不在意，他只是让莉莉继续抱着他，感觉她像是在把他拼凑在一起。他能听到帕德弗特的呜咽和喘息声。最后，他抽身而退，擦了擦眼睛。

“Sorry,” he said, bashfully.  

“对不起，”他说，腼腆地。

“Don’t be stupid,” she squeezed his arm, her own sea green eyes shimmering. “Want to go home?”  

“别傻了，”她捏了捏他的手臂，自己海洋般绿色的眼睛闪闪发光。“想回家吗？”

“Actually,” Remus sniffed, “I want to get really, really pissed.”  

“其实，”雷木斯抽噎道，“我想喝得酩酊大醉。”

Padfoot barked.  

 

帕德弗特叫了起来。

The poem is 'This Is The Verse' by Philip Larkin.

The song is 'Who knows where the time goes' by Sandy Denny.

 

Chapter 139: Seventh Year: Drunkards 

Better get yourself together darling

Join the human race

How in the world you gonna see

Laughing at fools like me

Who on earth d'you think you are

A superstar?

Well, right you are

 

Well we all shine on

Like the moon and the stars and the sun

Well we all shine on

Ev'ryone come on

* * *

“Right. Pub, then?” Lily said, business-like once more. “I think we’d better go back to Hogsmeade, don’t you? I don’t fancy our chances apparating back to Scotland drunk…”  

“那好，去酒吧吧？”莉莉再次以商业化的口吻说道。“我想我们最好还是回霍格斯米德去吧，你不觉得？我不太敢冒险喝醉了再回苏格兰……”

“Yeah, good plan,” Remus nodded, wiping his nose on his sleeve, still sniffing. “...where’s James?”  

“嗯，好主意，”雷木斯点头道，擦了擦袖子上的鼻子，仍在抽噎。“……詹姆斯在哪儿？”

“Well we realised that it was going to look really suspicious if both the head boy and the head girl were missing,” Lily laughed. “So he went back to cover for us. He um… he sent Sirius. We both thought…”  

“嗯，我们意识到如果两个学生会主席都不在会显得很可疑，”莉莉笑道。“所以他回去掩饰了我们的缺席。他呃……他派了天狼星过来。我们都觉得……”

“It’s ok.” Remus nodded. He finally turned to address the dog, sitting patiently by. “Sirius?”  

“没事的。”雷木斯点头道。他终于转过身去面对那只耐心坐着的狗。“天狼星？”

 

He transformed back at once, and stood there looking awkward, rubbing one arm with the other.  

他立刻变回了人形，站在那里显得有些尴尬，一只手臂揉着另一只。

 

“Hello, Moony.” He said, softly.  

“你好，月亮。”他说，声音柔和。

 

“Hi.” Remus nodded back, suddenly very shy.  

“嗨。”雷木斯点了点头，突然感到非常羞涩。

 

“Oh, Remus, I forgot!” Lily broke the atmosphere. She handed him a small square cardboard box. A carton of Silk Cut. “James’s idea,” she shrugged.  

“哦，雷木斯，我忘了！”莉莉打破了沉默。她递给他一个小方形纸盒，一包丝绸切割烟。“这是詹姆斯的主意，”她耸了耸肩。

 

“Life saver, thanks!” Remus accepted them gratefully.  

“救命恩人，谢谢！”雷木斯感激地接受了。

 

“I’d better go and get in touch with him, actually,” Lily continued, glancing between the two boys, “Black, give me the mirror? I’ll go and let him know where to meet us.”  

“其实，我最好去联系一下他，”莉莉继续说道，瞥了一眼两个男孩。“天狼星，把镜子给我？我去告诉他在哪里见面。”

 

Sirius handed her the compact, and she smiled at them both, before walking a little ways away - so that she was just out of earshot.  

天狼星把镜子递给她，她对他们俩微笑了一下，然后走开了几步——让她离开了耳朵的听力范围。

 

Remus sat down on the bench, opening the box of fags with his teeth, then pulling one out. He held it up to Sirius,  

雷木斯坐在长椅上，用牙齿打开了烟盒，然后拿出一根。他把烟递给天狼星，

 

“Light it for me? I’m so nervy it’ll probably blow up in my face.”  

“给我点燃它好吗？我这么紧张，它可能会在我脸上炸开。”

 

Sirius clicked his fingers, and the cylinder lit. Remus sucked on it appreciatively. Sirius sat next to him.  

天狼星打了个响指，香烟点燃了。雷木斯欣赏地吸了一口。天狼星坐在他旁边。

 

“Moony I’m--”  

“月亮，我——”

 

“Sirius--”  

“天狼星——”

 

They both tried to speak at once, then smiled at each other timidly.  

他们都试图同时说话，然后害羞地相视而笑。

 

“Sirius.” Remus said, “I’m sorry. I was a twat.”  

“天狼星。”雷木斯说，“对不起。我真是个蠢货。”

 

“You were.” Sirius nodded, taking a cigarette of his own. “But you weren’t completely wrong.”  

“你是。”天狼星点头道，抽出了一根烟。“但你并非完全错了。”

 

“Nor were you.” Remus sighed. “I dunno what’s wrong with me.”  

“你也不是。”雷木斯叹了口气。“我不知道我怎么了。”

 

“There’s nothing wrong with you, Remus.” Sirius touched his knee, gently, looking him in the eye. He was in muggle clothes, which was a nice change, Remus thought. Black jeans and his black leather jacket. Remus smiled.  

“你没有问题，雷木斯。”天狼星轻轻地摸了摸他的膝盖，直视着他的眼睛。他穿着麻瓜衣服，雷木斯觉得这是个不错的变化。黑色牛仔裤和黑色皮夹克。雷木斯笑了。

 

“You look really good.”  

“你看起来真不错。”

 

“So what else is new.” Sirius stuck out his tongue. He turned solemn again, “I couldn’t believe it when Prongs told me about the letter. I felt like shit for shouting at you, I just wanted to make sure you were ok, then he said you’d gone...”  

“那有什么新鲜事。”天狼星吐了吐舌头。他又变得严肃了，“当詹姆斯告诉我关于那封信的事时，我简直不敢相信。我为对你大喊大叫感到很糟糕，我只是想确保你没事，然后他说你走了……”

 

“Sorry,” Remus replied. “I just had to get here straight away, I didn’t even think.”  

“对不起，”雷木斯回答道。“我只是必须立刻到这里，我甚至没来得及考虑。”

 

“I wouldn’t have, either.” Sirius admitted. “Though, actually, I dunno if I would exactly rush to my mother’s bedside.”  

“我也不会。”天狼星承认道。“不过，实际上，我不知道我是否会急着去我母亲的床前。”

 

Remus snorted, half-heartedly, and they were both quiet for a bit, thinking about their mothers.  

雷木斯半心半意地哼了一声，他们都沉默了一会儿，想着他们的母亲。

 

“What’s she like?” Sirius asked, finally.  

“她是什么样的？”天狼星终于问道。

 

Remus considered this carefully before answering. He tried to recall her voice, her eyes, the way her hand felt in his.  

雷木斯仔细考虑了一下才回答。他试图回忆她的声音，她的眼睛，她的手在他手中的感觉。

 

“She’s nice.” He said. “I think I like her.”  

“她很好。”他说。“我觉得我喜欢她。”

 

“All right, you two, ready?” Lily returned, obviously having judged them suitably made up.  

“好了，你们俩，准备好了吗？”莉莉回来了，显然她认为他们已经准备好了。

 

“Yeah,” they both replied, smiling.  

 

“嗯，”他们都回答道，微笑着。

* * *

They ended up in the Three Broomsticks, all five of them—James had brought Peter down from the castle with him. Three firewhiskies in, and Remus was feeling pleasantly warm and loose, grinning dopily as his friends made a racket for his benefit.  

他们最终来到了“三把扫帚”酒吧，五个人全到齐了——詹姆斯还带下了彼得。喝了三杯火威士忌，雷木斯感到暖洋洋的，脸上挂着傻笑，朋友们为他热闹地制造声响。

No one asked him any questions, which was perfect; they just drank, laughed, and talked like real teenagers for once.  

没人问他任何问题，这正合他的心意；他们只是喝酒、笑谈，像真正的青少年一样。

“This map is some of the best magic I’ve ever seen.” Lily marvelled, after studying it for some time. “And you only use it for pranks?!”  

“这个地图是我见过的最棒的魔法之一。”莉莉赞叹道，研究了一会儿。“你们只用它来搞恶作剧？！”

“What else would we use it for?” Sirius raised an eyebrow.  

“那还用来做什么呢？”天狼星挑了挑眉。

“You’ve even got the moving staircases!” Lily exclaimed, clearly delighted.  

“你们甚至连会移动的楼梯都有！”莉莉惊呼道，显然很高兴。

“That was one of mine.” Remus said, eagerly.  

“那是我做的。”雷木斯兴奋地说。

“It was all yours,” Sirius said, “The whole thing was your idea, Mr Moony.”  

“完全是你的主意，”天狼星说道，“整个地图都是你的创意，月亮先生。”

“Yeah, but you lot did loads of work on it…”  

“是的，但你们也做了很多工作……”

“What are you going to do with it at the end of the year?” Lily asked.  

“到年底你们打算怎么办？”莉莉问道。

The four boys looked at each other with a note of sadness. The map would no longer be useful to them if they weren't at Hogwarts. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs would no longer be Hogwarts’ premiere mischief makers. James shrugged,  

四个男孩互相看了一眼，带着一丝忧伤。如果他们不在霍格沃茨，地图就不再对他们有用。月亮、蠕虫、小天狼星和詹姆斯将不再是霍格沃茨的顶级恶作剧制造者。詹姆斯耸了耸肩，

“Pass it on, I s’pose? Maybe to someone in the co-operative.”  

“我想只能转交给别人了？也许交给合作社里的人。”

Remus hated that idea and finished his fourth drink.  

雷木斯讨厌这个主意，喝完了他的第四杯酒。

“Rosmerta!” Sirius called out, raising a hand, “Another round, darling?”  

“罗斯梅塔！”天狼星喊道，举起手，“再来一轮，亲爱的？”

“Right you are my love…” she called back.  

“好的，我的爱……”她回道。

“Flirt.” Remus nudged him under the table.  

“花言巧语。”雷木斯在桌子下碰了碰他。

“I’m trying to get you drunk.” Sirius replied, piously, “As requested.”  

“我在努力让你喝醉。”天狼星庄严地回答道，“正如你所要求的。”

“I’m already drunk,” Lily slurred, blinking hard. “I don’t know how I’m going to walk back to school…”  

“我已经喝醉了，”莉莉含糊地说，努力眨眼。“我不知道怎么回学校……”

“I’ll carry you.” James said, valiantly, though he was clearly starting to get a bit wobbly himself.  

“我会抱着你回去。”詹姆斯英勇地说，尽管他自己显然也开始有点晃了。

“I don’t want it to be over.” Peter said, morosely.  

“我不想结束。”彼得忧郁地说道。

“Calm down, Wormy, we’re not going back yet.” Sirius said, as Rosmerta appeared with a tray of drinks. Remus grabbed another firewhisky and knocked it back. He liked the burn; it felt like it was working.  

“别激动，蠕虫，我们还没有回去。”天狼星说道，罗斯梅塔端着酒托出现了。雷木斯拿了一杯火威士忌，喝了下去。他喜欢那种烧灼感；感觉有效果。

“I don’t mean tonight.” Peter said, clumsily slamming his chubby fist on the table, “I mean school, I mean everything.”  

“我不是说今晚。”彼得笨拙地把胖乎乎的拳头重重地拍在桌子上，“我是说学校，我是说一切。”

“School isn’t everything.” Lily patted him gently.  

“学校不是一切。”莉莉轻轻拍了拍他。

“No.” He sighed, “But it’s all going to change, isn’t it? We won’t see each other all the time, we’ll all have jobs.”  

“不。”他叹了口气，“但一切都会改变，对吧？我们不会一直见面，我们都会有工作。”

“Speak for yourself,” Sirius laughed, “Some of us are independently wealthy. Anyway, of course we’ll see each other every day, idiot, we’re all moving in together!”  

“你说说你自己，”天狼星笑道，“我们中有些人是独立富裕的。无论如何，我们当然每天都会见面，傻瓜，我们都会一起住！”

Lily and James looked at each other, suddenly sober. Sirius's eyes narrowed, “What?”  

莉莉和詹姆斯对视了一下，突然清醒了过来。天狼星的眼睛眯了起来，“怎么了？”

“Mate,” James said, awkwardly, “Er. Lily and I have been talking about… maybe getting a flat together, after the summer.”  

“伙计，”詹姆斯尴尬地说，“呃。莉莉和我谈过……也许暑假后租个公寓住。”

“Yeah,” Sirius nodded, “We’ll all move in, and--”  

“是的，”天狼星点头道，“我们都会一起住，然后——”

“Padfoot,” Remus touched his knee, “He means just the two of them.”  

“天狼星，”雷木斯摸了摸他的膝盖，“他是说只有他们两个。”

“What? Why?!”  

“什么？为什么？！”

“Let’s not talk about this now!” Lily said, hurriedly, “Nothing’s decided!”  

“我们现在别谈这个！”莉莉匆忙说，“什么都还没决定！”

But everyone could see that it was.  

但每个人都能看出来，事情已经决定了。

“What about this prank, then?” James said, still eyeing Sirius, “What are we going to do if no one comes up with anything good?”  

“那这个恶作剧呢？”詹姆斯说，仍盯着天狼星，“如果没人想出什么好的点子怎么办？”

“We will,” Remus said, “There’s time. Is it me or is the mass-levitation idea starting to sound good?”  

“我们会想出来的，”雷木斯说，“还有时间。难道只有我觉得大规模升空的点子开始听起来不错吗？”

“Oh good, you are drunk.” Sirius smirked, “How the fuck are we supposed to levitate two hundred students? And why would we?”  

“哦，好吧，你确实喝醉了。”天狼星笑道，“我们怎么可能让两百个学生悬浮起来？而且我们为什么要这么做？”

“Be funny.” Remus shrugged, then giggled. Everything seemed like it would be funny, right then.  

“会很好笑。”雷木斯耸了耸肩，然后咯咯笑了。那时一切都显得很有趣。

“There are enough of us,” James said, “If everyone concentrates, we could easily levitate them all.”  

“我们人够多，”詹姆斯说，“如果大家集中精力，我们可以很容易地把他们都升空。”

“And do what with them?! Practical jokes need a practical element!” Sirius insisted. Everyone else burst out laughing at him. He shook his head disdainfully and took a swig of his butterbeer.  

“那我们要怎么做？！恶作剧需要实际的元素！”天狼星坚持道。其他人都笑了起来。他不满地摇了摇头，喝了一口黄油啤酒。

“You’re not drinking?” Remus said, suddenly.  

“你不喝酒？”雷木斯突然问道。

“Er… no.” Sirius looked down, self-consciously. “Thought someone better stay responsible enough to get you lot back in one piece.”  

“呃……不。”天狼星低下头，自觉地说道。“觉得还是有人要负责把你们带回去

。”

“Ahhh,” Lily grinned dopily, “You do care, Black! You’re all soft and sensitive really, aren’t you?”  

“啊，”莉莉傻乎乎地笑道，“你真关心，天狼星！你实际上是个温柔敏感的人，不是吗？”

“I just don’t want anyone expelled before we can get this prank off the ground!”  

“我只是希望在我们搞恶作剧之前，没人被开除！”

“Off the ground! So you agree with the levitation idea!” James cackled.  

“搞起来！所以你同意升空的主意！”詹姆斯咯咯笑道。

“Oh for goodness’ sake…” Sirius rolled his eyes. “I’m going to the loo.” He got up and left them laughing.  

“天哪……”天狼星翻了个白眼。“我去趟洗手间。”他站起身，离开了他们的笑声。

Remus took the opportunity to pop out for a cigarette. He could have smoked in the pub and thought that Lily and James might even let him get away with it, but he wanted a minute to himself. Outside was nice and cool, the air felt clean. He lit up and started puffing away, wrapping his arms around himself against the chill. He was really drunk. He had to lean against the wall just to stay up. It was nice; he didn’t have to worry about anything if he was drunk. No one would expect him to.  

雷木斯趁机出去抽烟。他本可以在酒吧里抽烟，莉莉和詹姆斯可能甚至会让他这样做，但他想要独处一会儿。外面的空气很清新，凉爽的微风让人感到舒服。他点燃了香烟，开始抽着，双臂抱着自己以抵御寒冷。他真的喝醉了。他不得不靠在墙上才能站稳。这样很好；他不必担心任何事，因为他喝醉了。没有人会对他有任何期待。

He leaned his head back against the wall, catching sight of the pale crescent moon glowing through the scudding clouds. He thought about Livia, as he often did when he saw the moon. And Castor. He thought about their warning and how it had been so meaningless, in the end. Why was that? Remus’s whisky-addled mind hit on something—something he hadn’t thought about before. But as soon as it was there, it was gone again. He shook his head, dazedly.  

他靠在墙上，抬头看到那弯弯的月牙在云层中闪烁。他想起了莉维亚，就像他每次看到月亮时常常会想的那样。还有卡斯托。他想起了他们的警告，最终感觉如此无意义。这是为什么？雷木斯酒醉的思绪闪过一个念头——一个他之前从未想过的念头。但它刚一出现，又立刻消失了。他迷茫地摇了摇头。

“All right?” Sirius came out and joined him.  

“怎么样？”天狼星走出来，加入了他。

“Mmm.” Remus nodded, smiling widely.  

“嗯。”雷木斯点头，笑得很开怀。

“Pisshead.” Sirius smirked.  

“醉鬼。”天狼星笑道。

“Oi!” Remus shot back playfully, “I can hold my drink, ffffank you very much. Unlike some.”  

“喂！”雷木斯调皮地回击道，“我能喝酒，谢谢你。不像某些人。”

“Oh yeah?” Sirius humoured him, leaning against the wall too. He took Remus’s hand and laced their fingers together.  

“哦，是吗？”天狼星逗他，靠在墙上。他握住雷木斯的手，把他们的手指交织在一起。

“Yeah,” Remus nodded emphatically, “Remember my fifteenth? You and Pete got so wankered, you threw up in the tunnel.”  

“是的，”雷木斯郑重其事地说，“记得我十五岁那年吗？你和彼得喝得酩酊大醉，把隧道弄得一团糟。”

“Godric, how could I forget,” Sirius laughed. “Horrific.”  

“神秘神，怎么可能忘记，”天狼星笑道。“太可怕了。”

“Nahh,” Remus sighed happily, squeezing Sirius’s fingers. “It was nice. You fell asleep on my shoulder and told me I was magic.”  

“不，”雷木斯幸福地叹了口气，握紧天狼星的手指。“那时很温馨。你在我肩上睡着了，还告诉我我是魔法。”

“Did I?”  

“我说了吗？”

“You did.”  

“你说了。”

“That does sound nice. I must have been very drunk.” He laughed, “Not that I don’t think you’re magic, Moony.”  

“这听起来确实很不错。我一定是喝醉了。”他笑道，“不是我不觉得你是魔法，月亮。”

Remus’s mind had drifted, though. His cigarette had gone out, and he dropped it.  

不过雷木斯的思绪已经飘远。他的香烟熄灭了，他扔掉了它。

“Wish I could say stuff like that.”  

“真希望我能说这样的话。”

“Like what?” Sirius frowned.  

“像什么？”天狼星皱起了眉头。

“Nice stuff.”  

“那些好听的话。”

“You say lots of nice stuff, Moony.”  

“你说了很多好听的话，月亮。”

Remus shook his head, frowning. It was no good.  

雷木斯摇了摇头，皱着眉头。这样不行。

“Need another drink.”  

“需要再喝一杯。”

“Ok, come on then…”  

“好的，来吧……”

Inside, Peter was half asleep, propped up on his elbow, and Lily was sitting in James's lap. She seemed to be trying to locate his tonsils with her tongue.  

里面，彼得半睡着了，靠在手肘上，莉莉坐在詹姆斯的腿上。她似乎在用舌头寻找他的扁桃体。

“Bloody hell.” Sirius groaned, “Give it a rest, you two.”  

“该死的。”天狼星抱怨道，“你们俩休息一下吧。”

Remus sniggered, finishing the last of his whisky. That was better.  

雷木斯咯咯笑着，喝完了最后一杯威士忌。感觉好多了。

“You can talk!” Lily poked her pink tongue out at him. “Marlene told me she caught you two snogging in the corridor the other night!”  

“你也有资格说！”莉莉吐出粉红色的舌头对他说。“玛琳告诉我她看到你们俩在走廊里亲吻了！”

“So what if she did?” Sirius replied primly, “It was private enough until she showed up.”  

“那又怎样？”天狼星正经地回答道，“直到她出现之前，这都很私密。”

“Christopher was there,” Remus put in. Lily laughed and pointed at Sirius,  

“克里斯托弗也在那儿，”雷木斯插话道。莉莉笑了，指着天狼星，

“Ha! Exhibitionist!”  

“哈！爱显摆的！”

“She’s right.” Remus nodded drunkenly, “You are. Remember I caught you with Mary all the time when I was a prefect.”  

“她说得对。”雷木斯醉醺醺地点头，“你确实是。记得我当监控的时候总是抓到你和玛丽在一起。”

“Oh well, that was Mary, you know what Mary’s like…”  

“哦，那是玛丽，你知道玛丽是什么样的……”

“Remus!” Lily said, still giggling and quite pink in the face now, “You won’t believe what Mary told me about you last year!”  

“雷木斯！”莉莉说道，仍在咯咯笑，脸颊变得相当红，“你不会相信玛丽去年告诉我的事！”

“What?”  

“什么事？”

“It was before you came out, so you’d think she’d admit it was made up by now, but she told me and Marlene that you and she… you know…”  

“那是在你出柜之前，你会认为她现在会承认是编造的，但她告诉我和玛琳，她和你……你知道的……”

“Made sweet heterosexual love?” Sirius supplied, barely stifling his own laughter now.  

“做了甜蜜的异性恋爱？”天狼星补充道，几乎忍不住自己的笑声。

“Oh!” Remus said, “Yeah, that’s true, actually.”  

“哦！”雷木斯说，“是的，其实是真的。”

“What?!” Lily stared at him, her mouth open.  

“什么？！”莉莉瞪大了眼睛，嘴巴张开。

“Ages ago…”  

“很久以前……”

“Last year, actually.” Sirius corrected. “It’s fine, Lily, he only did it to make me jealous.”

“实际上是去年。”天狼星纠正道。“没关系，莉莉，他这么做只是为了让我嫉妒。”

“Arrogant prick.” Remus snorted.  

“自大混蛋。”雷木斯哼了一声。

Peter began to snore. James looked at him, then at his pocket watch,  

彼得开始打鼾。詹姆斯看了看他，然后看了看他的怀表，

“Reckon we’d better head back?”  

“我们最好还是回去吧？”

 

* * *

 

Remus insisted on finishing not only his drink, but everyone else’s before they left. He wanted to be good and drunk, so that he would fall straight to sleep, without any of the intrusive thoughts that had been plaguing him since Marlene’s return. Plus, though he wasn’t going to tell Sirius, his hip didn’t hurt as much with all that liquor in his blood.  

雷木斯坚持不仅要喝完自己的酒，还要喝完其他人的酒才离开。他想要彻底醉倒，这样他才会直接睡去，不会被自玛琳回归以来困扰他的侵扰性思绪打扰。而且，虽然他不打算告诉天狼星，他的髋部在这些酒精的影响下感觉不那么疼了。

 

James was true to his word, and gave Lily a piggyback all the way to Honeyduke’s. Remus looked at Sirius with a quirked eyebrow. The other boy laughed,  

詹姆斯言出必行，把莉莉背到霍尼杜克的糖果店。雷木斯用挑起的眉毛看着天狼星。另一个男孩笑了，

 

“I’ll levitate you, if you want, but I am not carrying you.”  

“如果你愿意，我可以让你漂浮起来，但我不打算背着你。”

 

“Who says romance is dead,” Peter yawned, rubbing his eyes and trailing along beside them.  

“谁说浪漫已经死了，”彼得打了个哈欠，揉着眼睛，跟在他们身边。

 

By the time they were descending the steps into the cellar of the sweet shop, Remus was feeling a lot less cheerful about the whole thing. Perhaps the last few whiskies had been a bad idea. His head was starting to throb painfully, and his vision was swimming. His limbs felt heavy, and as they sank into the darkness of the tunnel, he quite fancied just curling up to sleep right there.  

当他们下楼到达糖果店的地窖时，雷木斯对整个事情的感觉变得不那么愉快了。也许最后几杯威士忌是个坏主意。他的头开始剧烈地疼痛，视线模糊。他的四肢感到沉重，当他们沉入隧道的黑暗中时，他很想就在那儿蜷缩起来睡觉。

 

“No one’ll miss us,” he mumbled as Sirius gently pulled him along, “S’a weekend tomorrow.”  

“没人会想念我们的，”他喃喃道，天狼星轻轻地拖着他，“明天是周末。”

 

“I really don’t think you’ll be happy waking up here, Moony,” Sirius chided gently. “Trust me.”  

“我真的不认为你会喜欢在这里醒来，月亮，”天狼星温柔地责备道。“相信我。”

 

“I trust you.” Remus replied, his mouth thick with saliva.  

“我相信你。”雷木斯回答道，嘴里满是唾液。

 

It was all right for Peter. He’d transformed into a rat and curled up to sleep in Lily’s pocket.  

彼得倒没问题。他变成了一只老鼠，蜷缩在莉莉的口袋里睡觉。

 

“He’s so good at that,” Sirius marvelled, “I can’t transform drunk.”  

“他在这方面真厉害，”天狼星惊叹道，“我喝醉了没法变身。”

 

“I can!” James said, excitedly, and promptly did, much to Lily’s fright.  

“我可以！”詹姆斯兴奋地说，然后立刻变身，让莉莉吓了一跳。

 

“Jesus Christ.” she breathed, “I’m never going to get used to that.”  

“耶稣基督。”她喘息道，“我永远不会习惯那个。”

 

Prongs bowed his antlered head, and lowered one knee, allowing Lily to climb onto his back. She gripped his neck, grinning, and whooped as James set off clattering down the tunnel at a gallop.  

角鹿低下了有鹿角的头，屈膝让莉莉爬到他的背上。她抓住他的脖子，咧嘴笑着，当詹姆斯开始快速跑下隧道时，她欢呼起来。

 

Remus and Sirius stared after them as they vanished into the darkness.  

雷木斯和天狼星盯着他们消失在黑暗中的身影。

 

“Charming.” Sirius huffed.  

“迷人。”天狼星哼道。

 

“Why aren’t you a more useful animal?” Remus grumbled, leaning heavily against him.  

“为什么你不是更有用的动物？”雷木斯抱怨道，沉重地靠在他身上。

 

“It’s not like we got to choose…”  

“我们也没得选择……”

 

“Urrgh.” Remus groaned, “I’m going to be sick.”  

“呕。”雷木斯呻吟道，“我快要吐了。”

 

“Ugh, over there, then…” Sirius grabbed him by the shoulders and turned him around just in time.  

“呃，那边……”天狼星抓住他的肩膀，及时把他转过来。

 

Luckily Remus hadn’t eaten much that day, but it still felt horrible. His gut contracted painfully and he retched until his eyes bulged and he thought he’d choke. His eyes were stinging with tears when he finally came up for air. He rubbed them away quickly. Sirius handed him a goblet of cold water.  

幸运的是，雷木斯那天吃得不多，但仍然感觉很糟糕。他的胃部剧烈收缩，呕吐得眼睛突出了，觉得自己会窒息。他的眼睛充满了泪水，当他终于喘息的时候，他快速地擦去泪水。天狼星递给他一杯冷水。

 

“Where did you get that?” Remus spluttered, wiping his mouth.  

“你从哪里弄到这个的？”雷木斯呛声问道，擦了擦嘴巴。

 

“Keep it on me for the full moons,” Sirius shrugged, “Weightlessness charm. Must have left it in my pocket. Oi, just sip it, or you’ll chuck it all up again.”  

“我在满月时带着它，”天狼星耸耸肩道，“轻盈咒。可能是留在我口袋里了。喂，慢慢喝，要不然你会把它全都吐出来的。”

 

Remus obeyed. He washed his mouth out and spat.  

雷木斯听话地喝了。他漱口并吐掉了水。

 

“Sorry.” He said, weakly, “That’s disgusting.”  

“对不起。”他虚弱地说，“真恶心。”

 

“Call it payback for your fifteenth.” Sirius laughed, “Come on, shall we keep going?”  

“当作你十五岁的报应吧。”天狼星笑道，“来吧，我们继续走？”

 

Remus nodded, a hand on Sirius’s shoulder to keep himself steady.  

雷木斯点头，用手搭在天狼星的肩膀上保持稳定。

 

“Shouldn’a got so drunk.” He mumbled.  

“不该喝这么醉。”他喃喃道。

 

“You deserved it.” Sirius replied, blasé. “After the day you’ve had. Or the week you’ve had…”  

“你活该。”天狼星漫不经心地回答道。“在你经历了这样的一天之后。或者说你这一周……”

 

“I was a prick.” Remus was getting melancholy now, feeling sorry for himself. Sirius wasn’t having any of it.  

“我真是个混蛋。”雷木斯现在变得有些忧郁，为自己感到抱歉。天狼星没有接受这种情绪。

 

“Enough of that now, we’ve talked about it.”  

“别再提这些了，我们谈过这个话题。”

 

“I am a prick though.”  

“不过我确实是个混蛋。”

 

“No. You’re lovely.” Sirius insisted.  

“不，你很可爱。”天狼星坚持道。

 

“I don’t have any feelings.” Remus moped.  

“我没有任何感情。”雷木斯郁郁寡欢地说。

 

“What are you on about, of course you’ve got feelings. Look, we’re nearly there, now. Ugh, those bastards have gone on without us. Hey, do you reckon Prongs figured out how to change back?”  

“你在说什么，当然你有感情。看，我们快到了。呃，那些混蛋已经走了。嘿，你认为角鹿能找到怎么变回去的方法吗？”

 

“She told me she loves me.” Remus said, his forehead on Sirius’s shoulder, now.  

“她告诉我她爱我。”雷木斯说道，现在额头靠在天狼星的肩膀上。

 

“What? Who? ...oh… right…” Sirius stopped to check he was ok. He tried to be comforting, “Well that’s good, isn’t it? Nice to hear that.”  

“什么？谁？……哦……对……”天狼星停下来检查他是否还好。他试图安慰道，“那很好，不是吗？听到这些真不错。”

 

“I didn’t say it back.”  

“我没回

 

她。”

 

“Oh, Moony, that’s to be expected. Doesn’t mean you haven’t got feelings! I know you’ve got your heart set on being a monster, but I’m sorry to tell you that you are not.”  

“哦，月亮，这很正常。这并不意味着你没有感情！我知道你一心想当个怪物，但我很抱歉告诉你你不是。”

 

“Couldn’t say it.” Remus insisted, his voice muffled. “I don’t think I can say it to anyone. Even if I want to.”  

“不能说出来。”雷木斯坚持道，声音含糊。“我觉得我对任何人都说不出来。即使我想说。”

 

Sirius went very quiet and very still for a while. They were at the entrance of the tunnel now, in a few moments they would be back inside the castle. Sirius gave Remus a quick hug, stroking his hair gently. He pulled away and held his hand tightly.  

天狼星静静地待了一会儿。他们现在在隧道的入口处，再过一会儿就会回到城堡里。天狼星给了雷木斯一个简短的拥抱，轻抚他的头发。他退开，紧紧握住他的手。

 

“That’s ok, Remus,” he whispered, even though they were alone. “That’s ok, because it’s not something you say. It’s something you do. Right?”  

“没关系，雷木斯，”他低声说，即使他们是独处的。“没关系，因为这不是你说的，而是你做的。对吧？”

 

“Right.” Remus nodded, tearful and drunk, but somewhat placated.  

“对。”雷木斯点头，泪眼朦胧且醉醺醺的，但稍微得到安抚。

 

“Good.” Sirius smiled again. “Now, let’s get you to bed, eh?”  

“很好。”天狼星再次微笑。“现在，我们去睡觉吧，好吗？”

 

“Mm.” Remus agreed. Just as Sirius was pushing the statue of the humpbacked witch aside, Remus touched his arm, “Sirius?”  

“嗯。”雷木斯同意道。就在天狼星推开驼背女巫雕像的时候，雷木斯摸了摸他的手臂，“天狼星？”

 

“Yeah?”  

“嗯？”

 

“You’re magic.”  

“你是魔法。”

 

Chapter 140: Seventh Year: Brilliant ideas**Saturday 25th February 1978**

 

Remus didn’t think he had ever hated fire whisky more. When he woke up the next morning his throat was raw, his limbs ached and his head was throbbing. He’d take a full moon over a hangover any day. At least after a full moon everyone was sympathetic.  

雷木斯觉得他从未如此讨厌火威士忌。第二天早上醒来时，他的喉咙发炎，四肢酸痛，头部剧烈疼痛。他宁愿选择满月的夜晚也不愿忍受宿醉。至少在满月之后，每个人都会表现出同情。

 

“Urrrgh.” Someone else groaned from their bed. There were loud footsteps, as whoever it was ran to the bathroom, slammed the door, and began to throw up noisily.  

“呕。”另一人从床上呻吟着。传来响亮的脚步声，那个人跑向浴室，砰地一声关上门，开始大声呕吐。

 

“Lovely.” Sirius murmured from the pillow next to Remus.  

“太好了。”天狼星从雷木斯旁边的枕头上喃喃道。

 

“All right in there, Pete?” James shouted. He was met with an alarming gurgling sound from within the bathroom. “Bit of breakfast’ll sort you out,” James advised.  

“彼得，里面还好吗？”詹姆斯喊道。他听到浴室里传来令人不安的咕噜声。“吃点早餐会让你好受些，”詹姆斯建议道。

 

Remus heard James’s feet hit the floor. He began to whistle a jaunty tune. Bloody perfect Potter and his immunity to hangovers.  

雷木斯听到詹姆斯的脚步声落地。他开始吹起一曲欢快的曲子。该死的完美的波特，他对宿醉的免疫力真让人嫉妒。

 

Remus’s stomach growled. Breakfast sounded good, despite the stabbing pain behind his eyeballs. Sirius raised his head at the noise and grinned,  

雷木斯的胃叫了起来。早餐听起来不错，尽管他眼睛后面的刺痛感让人难受。天狼星听到声音抬起了头，露出了笑容，

 

“All right, Moony?”  

“怎么样，月亮？”

 

“Mm.” He nodded, weakly, “Thirsty. Hungry.”  

“嗯。”他虚弱地点了点头，“口渴。饿。”

 

“S’pose I’m not getting my saturday lie in, then…” Sirius sighed over-dramatically. He whipped back the duvet, then the curtains to climb out.  

“看来我今天的周六赖床计划泡汤了……”天狼星夸张地叹了口气。他掀开被子，拉开窗帘，爬了起来。

 

Remus sat up slowly.  

雷木斯慢慢坐起身来。

 

“Pyjamas?” He grumbled, feeling around under his pillow.  

“睡衣呢？”他抱怨道，摸索着枕头下面。

 

“Yeah, you put up a bit of a fight on that front,” Sirius chuckled, stretching and yawning. “Said you were too hot. You threw them across the room and I gave up.”  

“嗯，你在这方面抗拒了一下，”天狼星笑道，伸了个懒腰。“说你觉得太热了。你把睡衣扔得满地都是，我就放弃了。”

 

“Defeatist.” Remus replied, clambering out of bed in his boxers to look for them. He’d have to go and use the shared bathroom up the hall; it didn’t sound like Peter would be coming out any time soon. His eyes stung in the bright morning sunlight, and he bent over, feeling about on the floor for his pyjama shirt and bottoms like a confused gibbon.  

“消极主义者。”雷木斯回答道，穿着内裤爬出床来找睡衣。他得去走廊上的共用浴室；听起来彼得不会很快出来。他的眼睛在明亮的早晨阳光下刺痛，他弯腰在地板上摸索着他的睡衣，就像一只迷惑的长臂猿。

 

“Morning lads,” Lily said, from the end of James’s bed.  

“早上好，伙计们，”莉莉从詹姆斯的床尾说道。

 

“Shit!” Remus jumped, surprised, and covered his crotch with the nearest quidditch magazine, then dived back behind his bed curtain, “What the bloody hell are you doing here?!”  

“天啊！”雷木斯吓了一跳，惊讶地用最近的魁地奇杂志遮住了自己的下体，然后迅速躲回床帘后面，“你们到底在这里干什么？！”

 

“I slept here.” Lily replied, a grin in her voice. “I didn’t know you two shared a bed.”  

“我在这里睡的。”莉莉回答道，声音里带着笑意。“我不知道你们俩共用一张床。”

 

“I didn’t know you two shared a bed.” Sirius replied, indignantly. He threw Remus his pyjamas, “There you are, Moony, make yourself decent.”  

“我也不知道你们俩共用一张床。”天狼星愤怒地回答道。他把雷木斯的睡衣扔给他，“那儿，月亮，把自己弄体面点。”

 

Remus was going to kill James. What did he think he was playing at, inviting girls into their bedroom? Surely there was an unwritten rule on that?! Was nowhere sacred?! He pulled his pyjamas on as quick as he could over his underwear, then hurried out of the room.  

雷木斯决定杀了詹姆斯。他到底在玩什么把戏，竟然邀请女孩进他们的卧室？这不应该有一条不成文的规则吗？！难道哪里都不神圣了吗？！他尽可能快地穿上睡衣，然后急忙走出房间。

 

“I didn’t see anything!” Lily called after him, giggling.  

“我什么都没看到！”莉莉笑着在后面喊道。

 

Christ.  

天啊。

 

* * *

 

Thank goodness it was saturday. They made slow progress to breakfast, but in the end even Peter made it down, though he was still very pale and quiet, and just sat sipping his tea.  

谢天谢地今天是周六。他们缓慢地前往早餐，但最终连彼得也下来了，尽管他仍然非常苍白和安静，只是坐着慢慢喝茶。

 

Remus, meanwhile loaded his plate up until he couldn’t see the china pattern. Weekend breakfasts were the best; fried eggs, thick cumberland sausages, dark fried mushrooms, bacon, golden toast slathered in butter, baked beans, fried tomato, black pudding… he was seriously going to miss Hogwarts food.  

与此同时，雷木斯把他的盘子装得满满的，直到看不到瓷器上的花纹。周末的早餐是最棒的；煎蛋、厚实的坎伯兰香肠、深色的煎蘑菇、培根、涂满黄油的金黄吐司、烤豆、煎西红柿、黑布丁……他真的会很想念霍格沃茨的食物。

 

“Why is Remus eating a hangover breakfast?” Mary asked, pouring herself some orange juice. “And where were you all yesterday afternoon?!”  

“雷木斯为什么吃宿醉早餐？”玛丽问道，给自己倒了些橙汁。“你们昨天下午都去哪儿了？！”

 

“Think you’ve answered your own question, MacDonald,” Sirius winked.  

“你自己已经回答了你的问题，麦克唐纳，”天狼星眨眼道。

 

“You lot have all the fun.” She grumbled.  

“你们真是尽享乐趣。”她抱怨道。

 

“Not fun.” Peter replied, his head in his hands, “Bad. Bad time.”  

“没什么乐趣。”彼得回答道，头埋在双手中，“很糟糕。很糟糕。”

 

“Have something to eat, Wormtail,” Remus suggested, swallowing his own mouthful. “You’ll feel better.”  

“吃点东西吧，小虫，”雷木斯建议道，咽下自己嘴里的食物。“你会感觉好些的。”

 

“I think he’s frightened he’ll lose an arm…” Sirius smirked, as Remus reached for another portion of bacon.  

“我觉得他害怕会丢掉一只手臂……”天狼星冷笑道，当雷木斯伸手拿另一片培根时。

 

“Yeah, that was the last slice of toast, Moony!” James complained.  

“那是最后一片吐司，月亮！”詹姆斯抱怨道。

 

“Oh for goodness sake, the plates refill, don’t they.” Remus rolled his eyes.  

“天哪，盘子会重新装满的，不是吗。”雷木斯翻了个白眼。

 

**“Always wondered how that happens,” Mary mused, watching as the toast rack was magically replenished.**  

“总是好奇这个是怎么发生的，”玛丽沉思道，看着吐司架被魔法重新填满。

 

**“It’s not that complicated,” Sirius said, “Basic teleportation spell - the house elves have tables directly beneath us in the kitchens; they load that up, then transport the food to the corresponding plates above.”**  

“其实没那么复杂，”天狼星说道，“基本的传送魔法——家养小精灵在我们下面的厨房里有桌子；他们先把食物装上，然后把它传送到上面的对应盘子里。”

 

**“Sort of like a magical dumbwaiter.” Remus nodded, now constructing himself a very complex sandwich.**  

“有点像魔法式的传菜器。”雷木斯点了点头，开始制作一个非常复杂的三明治。

 

**“Sounds complicated to me.” Mary said. “I’m useless at teleportation, though, I had to re-take my apparition test three times.”**  

“对我来说听起来复杂。”玛丽说道。“不过我在传送方面一窍不通，我不得不重新考了三次显形测试。”

 

**“It’s easier with inanimate objects,” Remus said, helping himself to ketchup, “and they’re only sending it directly up, so the destination part doesn’t take as much effort.”**  

“对无生物物体来说更简单，”雷木斯说道，拿起一些番茄酱，“而且他们只是直接向上送，所以目的地部分不需要太多的努力。”

 

**“I tried using it to clean my room once,” Sirius said, “I just transported all the messy stuff into the room above mine. Except I couldn’t get it back again after; my mother had an impenetrable lock on the attic. And I accidentally transported my bed, so that caused a bit of a row…”**  

“我曾经试过用这个清理我的房间，”天狼星说道，“我把所有乱七八糟的东西都传送到我上面的房间了。不过之后我没法再把它们拿回来；我母亲对阁楼有一个不可穿透的锁。而且我不小心传送了我的床，所以引起了一些麻烦……”

 

**James and Remus sniggered. Peter raised his head.**  

詹姆斯和雷木斯咯咯笑了起来。彼得抬起了头。

 

**“Hm.” He said.**  

“嗯。”他说。

 

**“What?” Lily asked, “You’re not going to be sick again, are you?”**  

“怎么了？”莉莉问道，“你不会又要呕吐了吧？”

 

**“No, I’m just thinking…”**  

“不是，我只是想了想……”

 

**“Merlin!” Sirius teased, “Better get him a painkilling draught…”**  

“梅林！”天狼星调侃道，“最好给他找一瓶止痛药……”

 

**Peter diligently ignored him, eyes focussed on the plates of food.**  

彼得认真地忽略了他，目光集中在食物盘子上。

 

**“Could we do it on a bigger scale?” He asked, “The transportation thing?”**  

“我们能在更大的范围内做到这一点吗？”他问道，“就是那个传送的事？”

 

**“You mean like getting food from the kitchens to our dorm?” Remus asked, “I don’t think so, I think only the house elves can do it. Would be great, though.”**  

“你是说像从厨房把食物送到我们宿舍？”雷木斯问道，“我不这么认为，我觉得只有家养小精灵能做到。不过如果能做到的话，确实会很棒。”

 

**“No,” Peter frowned, shaking his head, “More like what Sirius was saying - with beds, and trunks, and furniture…”**  

“不，”彼得皱起了眉头，摇了摇头，“更像是天狼星说的——用来传送床、箱子和家具……”

 

**“Yeah, probably,” Sirius shrugged, “I’m guessing that’s how everything ends up on the train at the end of term. Powerful bit of magic, though - it took me half a day to do my bedroom. Mind you, I was fourteen…”**  

“嗯，可能是这样，”天狼星耸耸肩，“我猜这就是所有东西如何在学期末上火车的方式。不过，这是一种强大的魔法——我花了半天时间来整理我的房间。说真的，我当时只有十四岁……”

 

**“We’ve got a lot of people, though,” Peter said, now looking up at James, grinning. “We could do it.”**  

“不过我们有很多人，”彼得说道，现在抬头看着詹姆斯，咧嘴笑道。“我们可以做到。”

 

**“Peter,” James was starting to smile now too. “Have you just had your best bloody idea in seven years of pranking?”**  

“彼得，”詹姆斯现在也开始笑了。“你刚刚想出了你七年来最棒的恶作剧点子吗？”

 

**Peter grinned back at him, looking happier than Remus had seen him in ages.**  

彼得回以笑容，看起来比雷木斯很久没见到的开心多了。

 

**“Emergency co-operative meeting!” James carried on, standing up, excitedly, “Spread the word!”**  

“紧急合作会议！”詹姆斯继续说道，兴奋地站起来，“散播消息！”

 

* * *

 

**The problem with planning a prank between thirty people rather than four was pure logistics. Between quidditch practices, clubs, NEWT and OWL revision and room availability, calling an emergency meeting was nearly impossible. It ended up being pushed back to Sunday, then Monday - then, much to James’s exasperation - their usual Wednesday slot.**  

和四个人一起计划恶作剧的问题在于纯粹的后勤。要协调魁地奇训练、俱乐部活动、新西特和奥尔考试复习以及房间的空闲时间，召开紧急会议几乎是不可能的。最终会议被推迟到周日，然后是周一——然后，让詹姆斯恼火的是——他们通常的周三时间段。

 

**“There’s still plenty of time,” Lily soothed, “And we can always start researching it now, so we have the right spells ready to show the group.”**  

“还有很多时间，”莉莉安慰道，“我们现在可以开始研究，这样我们就能准备好合适的咒语来展示给大家。”

 

**“S’pose.” James muttered, scuffing his feet on the flagstones as they walked back to the common room.**  

“也许吧。”詹姆斯喃喃道，一边在走回公共休息室的路上拖着脚步。

 

**“I’ve got some dungbombs lying about, if you fancy blowing off some steam today…” Sirius threw an arm around James.**  

“我有一些粪便炸弹，如果你今天想发泄一下……”天狼星搂着詹姆斯说道。

 

**“Yes!”**  

“好啊！”

 

**“I can’t hear this…” Lily covered her ears and ran ahead to catch up with Mary.**  

“我听不见……”莉莉捂住耳朵，跑在前面去追赶玛丽。

 

**On the fat lady’s corridor, Remus paused.**  

在胖夫人的走廊上，雷木斯停了下来。

 

**“You lot go on, I’ll just be a minute.” He stopped outside Professor McGonagall’s office door.**  

“你们继续，我马上就回来。”他在麦格教授的办公室门外停下了。

 

**Sirius glanced back and gave him a nod of understanding, before carrying on with James and Peter, loudly arguing over the best place to plant the dungbombs.**  

天狼星回头看了他一眼，表示理解，然后继续和詹姆斯、彼得讨论在哪里放置粪便炸弹。

 

**Remus knocked on the office door, timidly.**  

雷木斯小心翼翼地敲了敲办公室的门。

 

**“Enter,” came a voice from within.**  

“进来。”里面传来声音。

 

**He pushed the door open, and poked his head around nervously before going inside.**  

他推开门，小心翼翼地探出头来，然后走了进去。

 

**“Hello, professor.” He said, approaching her desk.**  

“您好，教授。”他说道，走向她的桌子。

 

**McGonagall was marking some essays, piled up neatly in front of her, a red quill flicking smoothly across the parchment as she read. She looked up and smiled at him pleasantly,**  

麦格教授正在批改一些整齐堆放在她面前的作文，红色的羽毛笔在羊皮纸上流畅地滑动。她抬起头来，对他露出了愉快的微笑，

 

**“Lupin, lovely to see you. Please have a seat.”**  

“雷木斯，很高兴见到你

 

。请坐。”

 

**He sat carefully, strangely reminded of the very first time he’d been in her office, and how tall and frightening she had seemed. He’d really thought he would hate her, she’d seemed so much like matron. Now he was able to meet her eye, and smile back as though she were a real friend. “How can I help?” She asked, as the red quill came to rest in the inkwell beside the papers.**  

他小心翼翼地坐下，奇怪地想起了第一次进她办公室时的情景，她当时显得那么高大和可怕。他真的以为自己会讨厌她，她看起来很像保健医。现在他能直视她的眼睛，微笑着像对待真正的朋友一样。“我怎么帮忙？”她问道，同时将红色羽毛笔放在了墨水瓶旁边。

 

**“I… I wanted to ask a favour,” he said, carefully. He felt inside his pockets and pulled out the letter from his mother. He put it on the desk, and slid it across. “Over Christmas the Potters helped me track down my mum. I wrote to her, and she wrote back. She’s in a muggle hospital, in Wales. I’d like to have permission to go and see her.”**  

“我……我想请个忙，”他说，小心翼翼地将母亲的信从口袋里拿出来，放到桌上并推过去。“圣诞节期间，波特一家帮我找到了我妈妈。我给她写了信，她也回了信。她在威尔士的一家麻瓜医院。我想申请去看她的许可。”

 

**McGonagall only glanced down at the letter briefly, before looking at him again.**  

麦格教授只是简短地看了一眼信件，然后又看向他。

 

**“Of course. We can make arrangements as soon as you’d like.”**  

“当然。我们可以尽快安排。”

 

**“Really?!” He was amazed it had been that easy.**  

“真的？！”他惊讶于竟然这么简单。

 

**“Really,” she replied, “Mr Lupin, this is a school, not a prison. Students are permitted to visit family members.”**  

“真的，”她回答道，“雷木斯先生，这是一所学校，不是监狱。学生可以探望家人。”

 

**“Oh. Well, great. I thought maybe on the next Hogsmeade weekend?”**  

“哦，那太好了。我想也许在下一个霍格斯梅德的周末？”

 

**“Certainly,” she opened a notebook and jotted something down, “Come and see me on the morning of, and I’ll write your permission slip.”**  

“当然，”她打开一个笔记本，写下了一些东西，“到时早上来找我，我会写你的许可条。”

 

**“Thank you.”**  

“谢谢。”

 

**“Would you like somebody to go with you?”**  

“你需要有人陪你去吗？”

 

**“Er… no. Thanks, but no.” Now that he’d done it once, he realised that it was something he needed to do alone. He wasn’t looking forward to breaking that to Sirius, but there was no helping it.**  

“呃……不。谢谢，但不需要。”既然他已经做了一次，他意识到这是他需要独自完成的事情。他不太期待把这个消息告诉天狼星，但没办法。

 

**“I’m very pleased for you, Remus,” McGonagall said, smiling again. “You know that my door is always open, if you need somebody to talk to. Though I know you aren’t short of friends.”**  

“我为你感到非常高兴，雷木斯，”麦格教授再次笑道。“你知道，如果你需要人倾诉，我的门总是敞开的。尽管我知道你朋友不少。”

 

**“Thanks,” he looked down, bashfully.**  

“谢谢，”他害羞地低下了头。

 

**“How is your revision going, Mr Lupin?”**  

“雷木斯先生，你的复习进展如何？”

 

**“Good, thanks.” Remus nodded, glad to be onto an easier subject.**  

“很好，谢谢。”雷木斯点了点头，欣慰于能开始较简单的科目。

 

**“Better than good, from what I’ve heard,” she continued, smiling, “All of your professors have given excellent reports on your achievements. In most classes you’re performing well above your peers, and I hear you’ve not only been working hard for yourself, but to help others, too?”**  

“从我听说的情况来看，比‘好’更好，”她继续说道，笑着说，“你所有的教授都对你的成绩给予了极高的评价。在大多数课程中，你的表现远超同龄人，而且我听说你不仅为自己努力，还帮助了其他人？”

 

**“The study groups are a collaborative thing…” Remus said, awkwardly.**  

“学习小组是一个合作的事情……”雷木斯尴尬地说道。

 

**“Nevertheless,” Professor McGonagall shook her head, “I’m proud to have you in my house, Mr Lupin.”**  

“尽管如此，”麦格教授摇了摇头，“雷木斯先生，我很自豪你在我的学院。”

 

**He didn’t know what to say to that, so he just looked at his hands. “Mr Lupin,” his head of house continued, “I have a favour to ask…”**  

他不知道该怎么回答，于是只得看着自己的手。“雷木斯先生，”他的院长继续说道，“我有个忙要请你帮……”

 

**“A favour?” Remus looked up, surprised. What on earth?**  

“请个忙？”雷木斯抬头惊讶地问道。到底是什么事？

 

**“Ahem, yes…” McGonagall looked a bit sheepish, and leaned in slightly, “As I’m sure you know, the final quidditch match of the year will be taking place in April, just before exams,”**  

“咳，嗯……”麦格教授显得有些不好意思，稍微倾身说道，“我相信你知道，今年的最后一场魁地奇比赛将在四月举行，就在考试前。”

 

**“Yeah, James has the schedule posted up in our room with an enchanted countdown in seconds and everything.”**  

“是的，詹姆斯在我们房间里贴了赛程表，还有一个用魔法倒计时的。”

 

**McGonagall smiled fondly.**  

麦格教授温柔地笑了。

 

**“James has been an absolute asset to the team, he's led Gryffindor on a record winning streak during his time here. The team he has assembled is first rate, primed to win their sixth cup in as many years… which brings me to my problem.”**  

“詹姆斯对球队来说是绝对的财富，他带领格兰芬多创造了连胜的纪录。他组建的球队是一流的，准备赢得他们连续第六个杯赛……这就引出了我的问题。”

 

**“Er… you want my help with a quidditch problem?!”**  

“呃……你需要我帮忙解决一个魁地奇问题？！”

 

**“Indeed. Now, I cannot go into too much detail, but I am sorry to say that Alexander Gordon, our beater, will be returning home for the rest of the term. I shall be telling Potter on Monday, of course, a replacement must be found as soon as possible, which is why I wanted to speak with you first..”**  

“确实如此。现在，我不能详细说明，但很遗憾，我要告诉你亚历山大·戈登，我们的击球手，将会在本学期剩下的时间里回家。我会在周一告诉波特，当然，必须尽快找到替代者，这就是我首先想和你谈谈的原因……”

 

**“Professor, I’m awful at quidditch!” Remus said, breaking out in a cold sweat.**  

“教授，我对魁地奇一窍不通！”雷木斯说道，冷汗直冒。

 

**McGonagall stared at him with a frown for a moment, before breaking into a (highly out of character) chuckle. She raised her hand to her mouth, apologetically,**  

麦格教授皱着眉头盯着他看了一会儿，然后（极其不符合她性格地）笑了起来。她抱歉地将手放到嘴边，

 

**“Goodness, Lupin! I didn't mean to suggest... though I’m sure you are quite capable on a broom, it wasn’t you I had in mind.”**  

“天哪，雷木斯！我不是想暗示……虽然我相信你在扫帚上很有能力，但我并没有把你当作考虑对象。”

 

**“Oh!” Remus exhaled, his shoulders relaxing. “Oh, good. Er… then how can I help?”**  

“哦！”雷木斯舒了口气，肩膀放松了下来。“哦，那就好。呃……那我能怎么帮忙？”

 

**“Well,” McGonagall turned serious once more. “We do have rather a good beater already in Gryffindor. But as you are aware, he was struck off the team two years ago.”**  

“嗯，”麦格教授再次变得严肃。“我们格兰芬多确实有一位相当优秀的击球手。但如你所知，他在两年前被从球队中除名。”

 

**“Sirius.”**  

“天狼星。”

 

**“Now, I don't wish to condone his behaviour, nor diminish the enormity of the incident which occurred in your fifth year…”**  

“现在，我不想为他的行为开脱，也不想淡化发生在你五年级时事件的严重性……”

 

**“No…” Remus swallowed, finding his mouth quite dry. He didn’t like to think about that, not ever. Like his hip, it was a pain which sometimes surfaced, but that he had to ignore in order to keep going.**  

“不……”雷木斯吞了口唾沫，感觉口干舌燥。他不喜欢去想那些事情，绝不。他像他的髋关节一样，那是一种时不时会浮现的痛苦，但他必须忽略它才能继续前行。

 

**“And I stand by the punishment he received,” his teacher continued, “But… well he was only struck off the team, he wasn’t placed under permanent ban.”**  

“我坚持他所受到的惩罚，”他的老师继续说道，“但是……他只是被除名了，并没有被永久禁赛。”

 

**“Right,” Remus nodded, soberly. “So he can play again, if he wants to.”**  

“对，”雷木斯严肃地点了点头。“所以他可以再次参赛，如果他愿意的话。”

 

**“Remus, I’m not going to allow it unless you agree.” McGonagall said, placing a hand on the desk between them. “It was you that Sirius put in danger, and if you feel--”**  

“雷木斯，除非你同意，否则我不会允许的。”麦格教授说道，将手放在他们之间的桌子上。“是你被天狼星置于危险之中，如果你觉得——”

 

**“No.” Remus said, “I mean yes, I mean… let him back on the team.”**  

“不。”雷木斯说道，“我是说，是的，我是说……让他重新回到球队。”

 

**“Are you sure?” She peered over her spectacles at him, as if trying to read his expression.**  

“你确定吗？”她透过眼镜看着他，好像试图读懂他的表情。

 

**“Absolutely!” Remus forced a smile. “Of course. It was two years ago.”**  

“绝对确定！”雷木斯强作笑容。“当然了。那是两年前的事了。”

 

**McGonagall watched him a bit longer, then smiled back, visibly relieved. He’d done the right thing, then. The thing she’d wanted.**  

麦格教授又看了他一会儿，然后笑了起来，显然感到松了一口气。他做了正确的决定，那正是她希望的。

 

**“Thank you, Mr Lupin,” she nodded, leaning back again. “I’ll tell Potter first thing tomorrow.”**  

“谢谢你，雷木斯先生，”她点了点头，重新靠在椅背上。“我会在明天一早告诉波特的。”

 

**“Great.” Remus nodded, getting up from his seat. “Thanks, professor, see you Monday.”**  

“太好了。”雷木斯点了点头，站起身来。“谢谢教授，周一见。”

 

Chapter 141~145Chapter Summary

141. Seventh Year: Star Star (2018-03-13)
142. Seventh Year: Hospital Visits (2018-03-15)
143. Seventh Year: Breakdown (2018-03-20)
144. Seventh Year: Choices (2018-03-25)
145. Seventh Year: What We Lack (2018-04-05)

Chapter 141: Seventh Year: Star Star 

He could have told James and Sirius straight away, if he’d wanted to. Could have played the hero, enjoyed the spotlight and being the cause of their joy. But he didn’t. He told himself it was to preserve Alexander Gordon’s privacy, or to respect McGonagall’s authority. But the truth was that he just didn’t want anything to do with it at all.

他本可以立即告诉詹姆斯和天狼星，如果他愿意的话。他本可以扮演英雄，享受那种关注和带给他们的快乐。但他没有这么做。他告诉自己这样做是为了保护亚历山大·戈登的隐私，或者尊重麦格教授的权威。但事实是他根本不想参与其中。

Obviously he wanted Sirius to be happy. Obviously he didn’t want to be an obstacle to Sirius’s happiness. And obviously he wanted Gryffindor to beat Slytherin in the final match; for James to have his moment of glory. He didn’t want to see Sirius punished forever for a mistake he made at sixteen. He didn’t want betrayal to hang over them like that, or to bring it all up again. And yet, there it was.
显然，他希望天狼星快乐。显然，他不想成为天狼星快乐的障碍。显然，他希望格兰芬多在决赛中击败斯莱特林；希望詹姆斯能拥有他的荣耀时刻。他不想看到天狼星因为一个十六岁时犯的错误而被永远惩罚。他不想让背叛像这样悬在他们之间，或者再次提起一切。然而，事情就是这样。

Remus had forgiven Sirius, back in the Potters’ bathroom two years ago; had absolved a truly repentant boy with blood on his hands and sorrowful eyes. It had been before they understood each other, before so many other good memories, of good things which had changed their friendship. But Remus hadn’t forgotten how it had felt. Sirius could destroy him completely without even meaning to. If anything, Remus was even more vulnerable to that now than he had been at sixteen.
雷木斯在两年前波特家的浴室里已经原谅了天狼星；原谅了那个手上沾满血迹和眼中满是悔恨的男孩。这发生在他们彼此了解之前，在那些改变了他们友谊的美好回忆之前。但雷木斯没有忘记那种感觉。天狼星可以在毫不经意间彻底摧毁他。如果说有什么不同的话，雷木斯现在比十六岁时更容易受到这种伤害。

No, Remus told himself. There was a difference between atonement and revenge. Sirius had earned this.
不，雷木斯告诉自己。赎罪和复仇之间是有区别的。天狼星应得这一切。

On Monday morning, James received a note from McGonagall, asking to see him before quidditch practice. He hurried off without even finishing his breakfast - nothing was more important than the final match. Marlene and Yaz began speculating on what it could be, Peter and Sirius leaning across the table eagerly to join in. Remus just waited, feeling half pleased and half something else. As breakfast was finishing, James’s muffled voice began emanating from the two-way mirror Sirius’s robe pocket.
在周一早晨，詹姆斯收到了一张麦格教授的便条，请他在魁地奇训练前去见她。他急匆匆地离开了，连早餐都没吃完——没有什么比决赛更重要了。玛琳和雅兹开始猜测可能是什么事，彼得和天狼星也兴奋地倾身过来参与。雷木斯只是等待，感觉有一半是高兴，另一半则是其他的情绪。早餐快结束时，詹姆斯的声音从天狼星的袍子口袋里的双向镜子中传了出来。

“Padfoot! Padfoot! Quidditch pitch! Now!”
“天狼星！天狼星！魁地奇场地！现在！”

“What’dyou reckon he wants?” Sirius scratched his head as they got up from the table.
“你觉得他想要什么？”天狼星边挠头边起身离开餐桌。

“Oh, I think you’ll like it.” Remus replied, cryptically. “Go on, he sounds excited.”
“哦，我想你会喜欢的。”雷木斯神秘地回答道。“快去吧，他听起来很兴奋。”

“You know what it is, don’t you?” Sirius eyed him suspiciously.
“你知道是什么吗？”天狼星怀疑地看着他。

“Maybe.”
“也许吧。”

“Don’t you want me to walk you to Care of Magical Creatures?”
“你不想让我送你去魔法生物护理课吗？”

“I’ll manage. Go! Hurry!”
“我自己能搞定。快去！赶紧的！”

Remus didn’t see James and Sirius again until lunch, and both of them were grinning from ear to ear. James had the quidditch schedule out and was marking out extra practice days so that Sirius could get back up to speed.
雷木斯直到午餐时才再次看到詹姆斯和天狼星，两人都笑得合不拢嘴。詹姆斯拿出了魁地奇赛程表，标记出了额外的训练日，以便天狼星能重新找回状态。

“You were right,” Sirius beamed, practically bouncing in his seat as Remus arrived, “I did like it.”
“你说得对，”天狼星笑得满面春风，几乎在座位上跳起来，“我确实喜欢。”

Remus just smiled back. It was enough to see him happy; and if love was something you did, then Remus hoped this was enough.
雷木斯只是微笑回应。看到他快乐就足够了；如果爱是行动的话，那么雷木斯希望这已经足够了。

“What are you so happy about?” Marlene asked, sitting down opposite the boys.
“你们这么高兴是为了什么？”玛琳问道，坐到男孩们对面。

“Say hello to your new beater,” Sirius burst out.
“欢迎你们的新击球手，”天狼星兴奋地说道。

James laughed, nodding.
詹姆斯笑了，点了点头。

“Oh!” Marlene smiled brightly, “Excellent! Er… what happened to Gordon?”
“哦！”玛琳笑容灿烂，“太棒了！呃……戈登怎么了？”

“Gone home.” James replied, “Not supposed to ask.”
“回家了。”詹姆斯回答道，“不该问。”

“Ah. Well, anyway,” Marlene shook her head, “That’s fantastic, I’ve missed having you watching my back. So how come McGonagall let you? I thought you got kicked off for doing something unspeakable…?”
“哦。好吧，”玛琳摇了摇头，“那太棒了，我很想念你保护我的样子。那么麦格教授怎么会让你回去呢？我以为你是因为做了不可告人的事才被踢下去的……？”

“Oh yeah,” Mary added, stirring grated cheese into her leek and potato soup, “I remember something like that too, what did you do?”
“哦，对了，”玛丽补充道，一边搅拌着加了奶酪的韭菜土豆汤，“我也记得类似的事，你做了什么？”

Sirius visibly balked at this, his eyes widening.
天狼星显然被这个问题吓到了，眼睛瞪得大大的。

Remus frowned slightly. Was this the first time it had occurred to him? Had Remus been agonising over the implications of an event Sirius barely even remembered?! He decided to rescue him, nonetheless,
雷木斯略微皱眉。难道这是天狼星第一次意识到这个问题？雷木斯是否一直在为天狼星几乎不记得的事件的含义而苦恼？！尽管如此，他决定拯救他，

“Ha, you can’t expect Sirius to remember every stupid stunt he pulls that gets him into trouble.” He said, cheerfully.
“哈哈，你不能指望天狼星记住每一个让他惹麻烦的愚蠢恶作剧。”他愉快地说道。

The girls accepted this, and lunch continued, but Remus could feel Sirius’s eyes on him the whole time. Apparently he had caught up. Well, Remus thought, at least it only takes him a few hours now. This time last year it would have been months.
女生们接受了这个说法，午餐继续进行，但雷木斯能感觉到天狼星一直在看着他。显然他已经明白了。雷木斯想，至少现在只需要几个小时。去年这个时候可能需要几个月。

Throughout the rest of the afternoon lessons, Remus’s gut instinct was to be evasive; to make a quick get away after his final class and stay in the library as late as he could, then go straight to bed without speaking.
在下午剩下的课程中，雷木斯的直觉是要回避；在最后一节课后迅速离开，尽可能晚地呆在图书馆，然后直接上床睡觉，不说话。

But really, he tried to reason with himself, wasn’t that just another way to punish Sirius? It certainly didn’t demonstrate forgiveness. He hadn’t forgotten their recent fight, and how Sirius had called him ‘bloody exhausting’. It had actually hurt his feelings quite a lot, at the time, and he knew that this was because it was so painfully true.
但他真的试图说服自己，这不只是另一种惩罚天狼星的方式吗？这确实没有表现出宽恕。他没有忘记他们最近的争吵，以及天狼星怎么称他为“让人受够了”。那时确实很伤他的感情，他知道这正是因为这句话非常真实。

So. He’d try it Sirius’s way.
所以。他决定试试天狼星的方式。

“Fancy a walk after dinner?” He asked, casually, tapping the box of matches where he kept his cigarettes and - sometimes - something more recreational.
“晚饭后想去散步吗？”他随意地问道，拍了拍他放烟草和——有时——其他休闲物品的火柴盒。

“Yeah,” Sirius smiled, surprised, “Sounds good.”
“嗯，”天狼星惊讶地笑了，“听起来不错。”

Pudding appeared on the table in front of them. James was taking notes on the teleportation mechanism, and kept picking up plates as soon as they emptied, to see if they would refill in mid-air, or land on the table itself.
布丁出现在他们面前的桌子上。詹姆斯正在记录传送机制，并不断地拿起盘子，一旦盘子空了，就看看它们是会在空中重新装满，还是直接落在桌子上。

“Potter if you drop even one treacle tart I’ll have your guts for garters…” Lily threatened.
“波特，如果你掉了一个焦糖挞，我会把你的肠子拿来做护腿！”莉莉威胁道。

 

* * *

It was easy enough for them to get away that evening, and they wandered towards the astronomy tower, because the evenings were nice now that winter was finally on its way out, and no one would have a go at them for smoking.

那天晚上，他们很容易就溜了出去，朝着天文学塔走去，因为现在冬天终于要过去了，晚上的天气很好，也不会有人对他们抽烟指责。

They interrupted a couple of fifth years clumsily groping on the parapets, and used their seventh year privilege to send them on their way.
他们打断了几名笨拙地在护栏上摸索的五年级学生，并利用他们七年级的特权将他们赶走了。

“Honestly, when we were their age, we never…” Sirius tutted disapprovingly.
“说实话，我们那个年纪的时候，从来没有……”天狼星不满地咂嘴道。

“Sure you want to finish that?” Remus raised a wry eyebrow.
“确定你想继续说下去吗？”雷木斯挑了挑眉。

They settled down. Remus rolled up his robes to use as a cushion, and they sat with their backs to the wall, companionably rolling spliffs. “I’m really happy for you.” Remus started, after his first inhale. “About the quidditch. You deserve it.”
他们安顿下来。雷木斯把长袍卷起来当作垫子，然后他们背靠着墙，亲切地卷着大麻烟。“我真的为你感到高兴。”雷木斯在第一次吸烟后说道，“关于魁地奇的事，你值得。”

“Thanks,” Sirius nodded, sounding relieved. “I really… um. I asked James, and he said McGonagall asked you if it was ok first.”
“谢谢，”天狼星点了点头，语气中带着放松。“我真的……嗯。我问了詹姆斯，他说麦格教授先问了你是否同意。”

“She did.” Remus agreed, keeping his voice steady. “Obviously I said it was fine. Obviously.”
“她确实问了。”雷木斯同意道，保持着平稳的语气。“显然我说没问题。显然。”

“I’m really grateful. You didn’t have to, I would have understood.”
“我真的很感激。你本不必这样做，我会理解的。”

“Really?” Remus looked at him, finally.
“真的？”雷木斯终于看着他。

“Of course,” Sirius said, earnestly, “I deserved to be struck off; I deserved to be expelled for what I did. Locked up in Azkaban. I got off easy, and I know it.”
“当然，”天狼星认真地说，“我应该被除名；我应该因为我做的事被开除。被关在阿兹卡班。我过得太轻松了，我知道。”

“I never wanted you to suffer.” Remus said. “I hated you for it - I won’t lie. But I forgave you then, and I can’t keep holding a grudge. You’ve made it up to me, like you said you would.”
“我从不想让你受苦。”雷木斯说。“我曾经因为这事恨过你——我不会撒谎。但我那时已经原谅了你，我不能再继续记仇了。你已经像你说的那样补偿了我。”

He felt a bit light-headed, saying all of this. It wasn’t much, no, but he knew they both felt the weight of the words. Sirius had always tried to understand him harder than anyone.
他说这些话时感觉有些头晕。这些话不多，但他知道他们都感受到这些话的重量。天狼星一直比任何人都努力理解他。

“Still,” Sirius replied, placing a hand over Remus’s, “If you’re still angry about it, that’s ok. I still feel guilty about it. It’s the worst thing I’ve ever done.”
“不过，”天狼星说道，把手放在雷木斯的手上，“如果你仍然生气，那也没关系。我仍然感到内疚。这是我做过的最糟糕的事。”

“We don’t have to talk about it…” Remus shifted uncomfortably. He really didn’t want to talk about it.
“我们不必谈论这个……”雷木斯不安地说道。他真的不想谈论这个。

“I just wanted you to know that I do still feel responsible. I don’t blame anyone but myself - not even Snivellus. Not even… not even her.”
“我只是想让你知道，我确实仍然感到有责任。我不怪任何人，除了我自己——连斯内普也不怪。连……连她也不怪。”

“Who?” Remus frowned, lost.
“谁？”雷木斯皱眉，不知所措。

He felt Sirius’s leg stiffen beside him, saw his hand tremble just for a moment.
他感觉到天狼星的腿在他身边僵硬了一下，看到他的手微微颤抖了一下。

“My mother.” He said, quietly. His breathing was shallow, and he spoke so quietly Remus had to strain his ears to catch it all. “Do you remember what happened that Christmas? It was when I got kicked out…”
“我母亲。”他低声说道。他的呼吸很浅，说话的声音很小，雷木斯不得不倾听才能听清。“你还记得那年圣诞节发生了什么吗？就是我被赶出去的时候……”

Remus nodded. How could he ever forget? It had been one of the worst nights of his life, and he had had more than his fair share.
雷木斯点了点头。他怎么可能忘记？那是他一生中最糟糕的夜晚之一，他经历了不止一次这样的夜晚。

Sirius continued, looking down at his knees, curling up smaller against the stone rampart.
天狼星继续说道，低头看着自己的膝盖，缩成一团靠在石头护栏上。

“She’d done stuff before - I mean, you know about that, the cutting, and the silencing and that time she vanished my hair. But - and I know this sounds weird - I never thought she’d do… that. She threatened to disown me all the time, threatened to do all sorts. But until they started getting in deep with Voldemort, I never really believed her.”
“她之前做过一些事——我意思是，你知道的，那些割伤、封口，以及她把我头发弄没的事。但——我知道这听起来很奇怪——我从没想到她会做……那种事。她时常威胁要与我断绝关系，威胁做各种各样的事。但直到他们开始与伏地魔深入勾结，我才真的相信她的话。”

He paused, apparently to take a few deep breaths, then pressed on bravely. “It was always the most important thing, when I was growing up; family. Family loyalty. I know they froze out Andromeda, but mother knew we were still in touch, she didn’t try to stop it. So I thought - well, they must be planning to forgive her one day. Bring her back into the fold; because she was family. And it was arrogant of me, but I really never thought it would happen to me.”
他停顿了一下，显然是为了深呼吸几次，然后勇敢地继续说道：“在我成长的过程中，最重要的事情就是家庭。家庭忠诚。我知道他们把安德罗梅达给隔离了，但母亲知道我们还在联系，她没有试图阻止。所以我认为——他们一定计划着有一天会原谅她。把她重新带回家庭；因为她是家人。我的确很傲慢，但我真的没想到这种事会发生在我身上。”

He looked at Remus, bashfully, as if he had said something idiotic, and expected to be teased. Remus said nothing, only gripped his hand. Sirius sighed.
他不好意思地看着雷木斯，好像自己说了什么愚蠢的话，期待被嘲笑。雷木斯什么也没说，只是紧握着他的手。天狼星叹了口气。

“But then it did happen - and they’d punished me so many times before, I thought I knew what to expect. But not like that. I’d never been so… so scared.” His eyes were shimmering now, and he was staring angrily ahead, “I hated it, feeling that way, and all I could think, lying in bed at the Potters, was how you or James would have done better. Been braver, or figured out a way to fight back. I didn’t fight back, because… because they were my family.”
“但后来真的发生了——他们以前惩罚过我那么多次，我以为我知道会发生什么。但不是那样。我从未如此……如此害怕。”他的眼睛现在闪着泪光，愤怒地直视前方，“我讨厌那种感觉，而我唯一能想到的，就是你或詹姆斯会做得更好。更勇敢，或想出办法反击。我没有反击，因为……因为他们是我的家人。”

“Sirius…” Remus tried to sound gentle, but Sirius shook his head, wiping his eyes quickly,
“天狼星……”雷木斯试图温柔地说道，但天狼星摇了摇头，迅速擦干眼泪，

“No, it’s ok, I’m not telling you so you feel sorry for me, I’m not making excuses. There’s no excuse. I’m just… I dunno, trying to explain. Anyway; that happened at Christmas, and then I was living at the Potters after that, so it was all ok, for me, wasn’t it? Like… I was safe, and I had nothing to be scared of. But I still felt like she could get me. I had these nightmares, remembering the curse. Sorry, I know it sounds stupid.”
“不，没事，我不是告诉你让你可怜我，我不是在找借口。没有借口。我只是……我不知道，试图解释一下。反正，那件事发生在圣诞节，然后我住在波特家，所以对我来说一切都还好，不是吗？就像……我安全了，不再害怕了。但我仍然觉得她会找到我。我做了这些噩梦，记得那个诅咒。对不起，我知道这听起来很傻。”

“It doesn’t sound stupid at all!”
“这一点也不傻！”

“Still. I felt like I had to do something, and maybe I didn’t always have the best ideas. You know what I was like - all over the place, acting like a twat. Me and James, we both used to egg each other on, didn’t we? And Snape was so easy to pick on, because he’s so foul and nasty already. Godric, so nasty. He tried to attack Mary, and then him and Reg tried to hurt you too, remember? And he just kept going, no matter what we did. And I just… not like Snape is like my mother or anything - I think there are at least six degrees of evil between them - but he made me feel the way she made me feel. Like I couldn’t control it. I just wanted to make him scared; make him feel it too, so that maybe he’d stop. It's no excuse, and I’m so sorry, Moony.”
“但我感觉我必须做点什么，也许我的想法并不总是最好的。你知道我是什么样的——到处乱七八糟，表现得像个傻瓜。我和詹姆斯，我们以前都互相挑唆，不是吗？而斯内普非常容易被挑衅，因为他本来就很恶心。天神，他真是太恶心了。他试图攻击玛丽，然后他和雷格也试图伤害你，记得吗？他无论我们怎么做都不停。我只是……不是说斯内普和我母亲一样——我觉得他们之间至少有六度的邪恶——但他让我感到像我母亲让我感到的那样。就像我无法控制它一样。我只是想让他害怕；让他也感受到那种感觉，这样他也许就会停下来。这不是借口，我真的很抱歉，月亮。”

Remus had not let go of Sirius’s hand. Something strange was happening inside of him. Something which he had rarely felt outside of a full moon. A fierce and overwhelming desire to protect this boy sitting next to him. To make sure he was never frightened again. He pulled Sirius to him, taking his spliff and pressing their lips together.
雷木斯没有放开天狼星的手。他内心发生了一些奇怪的事。他很少在满月之外感受到这种情感。强烈而压倒性的保护欲望，想要保护这个坐在他身边的男孩。确保他再也不会感到害怕。他把天狼星拉到自己身边，拿过他的烟，吻上了他的唇。

“It's forgiven.” He said, “I mean it.”
“我原谅你了。”他说，“我是认真的。”

Sirius didn’t speak, just looked up at him, grateful and happy, and Remus thought if he could bottle that look then he’d never struggle with a patronus again. “And you can blame your mother for it if you like.” Remus said, pulling away, “She sounds like a right cunt.”
天狼星没有说话，只是感激地幸福地看着他，雷木斯想着如果他能把那种表情装在瓶子里，那他就再也不会为护神咒而挣扎了。“你可以把这个怪罪到你母亲身上，”雷木斯说道，拉开， “她听起来真是个烂货。”

Sirius snorted with laughter and buried his face in Remus’s shoulder,
天狼星哼了一声笑，把脸埋在雷木斯的肩膀上，

“You oik,” he chuckled, gleefully. “I really bloody l--”
“你这小子，”他高兴地笑道，“我真他妈喜欢——”

“Who’s up here?!” Mary came tiptoeing around the corner. “Oh.” She sighed, upon seeing them. “I was hoping you were Marlene and Yaz, been trying to catch them for ages, finally put an end to this sneaking around malarkey.”
“谁在这儿？！”玛丽踮起脚尖转过角落。“哦。”看到他们后，她叹了口气。“我还以为你们是玛琳娜和雅兹，一直在试图抓到她们，终于结束了这鬼鬼祟祟的事。”

Sirius leaned back against the wall, wiping his eyes quickly.
天狼星靠在墙上，迅速擦干眼泪。

“All right, MacDonald,” he grinned, squinting up at her.
“好吧，麦克唐纳，”他笑着说道，眯着眼睛看着她。

“Ohhh, is that what I think it is?” Mary glimpsed the spliff in Remus’s hand, “Sharesies!”
“哦，这就是我想的那样吗？”玛丽瞥见雷木斯手中的烟，“共享吧！”

Friday 10th March 1978 - Just before midnight.

“Moony! Where have you gone? They’re going to do your cake before James really gets drunk…” Sirius called up the stairs.
“月亮脸！你去哪儿了？他们要给你切蛋糕了，詹姆斯还没真正喝醉之前...”天狼星在楼下喊道。

Remus smirked to himself, tipsily. James was too far gone already, if you asked him. He’d been leaping all over the common room furniture to ‘Jean Genie’ for half an hour already.
雷木斯自嘲地笑了笑，有些醉意。如果你问他，詹姆斯早就已经喝得不省人事了。他已经在休息室的家具上跳了半个小时的《Jean Genie》。

“Yeah I’ll just be a sec!” Remus called back.
“好的，我马上来！”雷木斯回喊道。

He was looking for something to use as a vase, and finally settled on transfiguring an old Wellington boot which must have been one of Peter's from first year. “Aguamente,” he murmured, his wandwork a bit sloppy from the cider. He had thought cider would be a smarter choice than whisky, but if anything it seemed to have made him stupider than normal.
他在找可以用作花瓶的东西，最后决定把一只旧的威灵顿靴子变成花瓶，那应该是彼得一年级时的。“阿瓜门提，”他喃喃道，由于喝了苹果酒，他的魔杖施法有些不稳。他以为苹果酒比威士忌聪明，但似乎让他变得比平时更愚蠢。

He dunked the bunch of tulips into the very rubbery looking vase, and grinned to himself.
他把一束郁金香插进看起来非常橡胶质感的花瓶里，自己笑了起来。

“What are you doing up here?” Sirius came in, now. He was drunk too; he had acquired a wide brimmed mauve hat from somewhere, and was wearing it at a jaunty angle. “Flowers?” He looked confused.
“你在这儿干什么？”天狼星走了进来。他也喝醉了；不知道从哪里弄到了一顶宽边的紫色帽子，歪斜地戴在头上。“花？”他看起来很困惑。

“Er yeah. From one of the Hufflepuffs in my study group,”
“呃，是的。是我学习小组里的一个赫奇帕奇给的。”

“Who’s giving you flowers?!”
“谁给你花？！”

“Miranda O’dell. Fourth year.”
“米兰达·奥德尔。四年级。”

“But why?!”
“为什么？！”

“I asked her to,” Remus smirked, enjoying the game.
“是我让她给的，”雷木斯狡黠地笑着，享受这个游戏。

Sirius threw his hands up,
天狼星举起双手，

“Moony! I am too drunk for your puzzles!”
“月亮脸！我喝得太醉了，玩不动你的谜语！”

“They’re for Hope,” Remus poked his tongue out. “Seeing her tomorrow, remember?”
“是给霍普的，”雷木斯吐了吐舌头。“明天见她，记得吗？”

“Oh yeah!” Sirius smiled again, eyes practically violet under the shade of his ridiculously flattering purple hat. “Looking forward to it?”
“哦，对！”天狼星又笑了起来，眼睛在他那顶荒唐但极其衬他的紫色帽子的阴影下几乎显得紫色。“期待吗？”

“D’you know what, I sort of am? At least I don’t want to throw up, like last time.”
“你知道吗，我有点期待？至少不像上次那样想吐。”

“Progress!” Sirius flung his arms out. The volume of the music downstairs increased by a good few decibels, as that trilling guitar started all over again, and James’s voice could be heard booming;
“进步了！”天狼星挥舞着双臂。楼下的音乐音量增加了好几分贝，响亮的吉他声再次响起，詹姆斯的声音传来；

“A small Jean Genie snuck off to the city, strung out on lasers and slash-back blazers, ate all your razors while pulling the waiters…”
“小小的Jean Genie溜进了城市，迷失在激光和回弹夹克中，吃掉了你的剃刀，同时拉扯着侍者……”

“James really likes this song, eh?” Remus grinned, hands in his pockets, enjoying being away from it all for a little bit.
“詹姆斯真的很喜欢这首歌，是吧？”雷木斯笑了笑，双手插在口袋里，享受着片刻的宁静。

“After years of trying, Bowie finally got through to him.” Sirius returned, taking a few coy steps towards Remus, leaning against the bedpost in that devastatingly casual way. “Are you enjoying your party?” He tilted his head down as his asked, eyes big and flirtatious as a girl’s.
“经过多年的努力，鲍伊终于打动了他。”天狼星回道，轻轻地向雷木斯走了几步，以那种迷人的随意姿态靠在床柱上。“你喜欢你的派对吗？”他低下头问道，眼睛像女孩一样大而调情。

“Very much,” Remus bobbed his head, returning the smile.
“非常喜欢，”雷木斯点点头，回以微笑。

“Someone invited Lockhart, the prick.”
“有人邀请了洛哈特，那混蛋。”

“Oh yeah?”
“哦，真的？”

“Yeah, how come he’s like that, anyway?!”
“是的，他怎么会那样？！”

Remus just shrugged, eyes fixed on the way Sirius swung his hips unconsciously back and forth in time with the bass reverberating from the floorboards. When they left school, Remus would buy him a hundred pairs of black jeans, and that would be all he’d allow him to wear.
雷木斯只是耸了耸肩，眼睛盯着天狼星无意识地随着地板上传来的低音来回摆动的臀部。当他们离开学校时，雷木斯会给他买一百条黑色牛仔裤，那将是他唯一允许他穿的东西。

“Want your present?” Sirius asked, suddenly, catching Remus’s eye.
“想要你的礼物吗？”天狼星突然问道，抓住了雷木斯的目光。

“You already got me a present!” Remus protested. A full year's supply of chocolate frogs - though Remus was pretty sure he could polish it off by the time exams were over.
“你已经给了我一个礼物！”雷木斯抗议道。一整年的巧克力蛙供应——虽然雷木斯很确定到考试结束时他就能吃完。

“I’m allowed to get you more than one thing.” Sirius said, petulantly.
“我可以给你多于一个礼物。”天狼星任性地说。

He stood away from the bed, legs apart, and waved his hands flamboyantly through the air like a muggle magician. Then, with a dramatic bow, he swept the hat from his head in one fluid motion, delved his hand inside and withdrew a small metal thing.
他从床边站开，双腿分开，像麻瓜魔术师一样夸张地挥动双手。然后，随着一个戏剧性的鞠躬，他一气呵成地从头上摘下帽子，伸手进去，取出一个小金属物件。

He handed it to Remus, who could smell that it was solid gold. It was a rectangular case, just bigger than his palm. It had the same leafy vine-like design as his gold pocket watch, and felt good and weighty in his hand. He snapped it open to find a row of eighteen neatly rolled cigarettes nestled inside. The inside lid also had a design on it, delicately etched so that the finely hewn lines gleamed when they caught the light. It was a glimmering night sky, with a large, celestial moon in one corner, and Canis Major picked out in mother of pearl inlay.
他递给雷木斯，雷木斯闻到那是纯金的。那是一个长方形的盒子，比他的手掌大一点。上面有着与他的金表相同的叶藤状设计，手感很好，重量感十足。他啪地一声打开它，发现里面嵌着一排十八支整齐卷好的香烟。内盖上也有一个设计，精细地雕刻着，当它们捕捉到光线时，精美的线条闪闪发光。那是一片闪烁的夜空，一角有一轮大大的月亮，还有母贝镶嵌的天狼星座。

“Sirius.” Remus said quietly, staring at it.
“天狼星。”雷木斯轻声说道，盯着它看。

“So you can get rid of that manky old matchbox.”
“这样你就可以丢掉那个脏兮兮的旧火柴盒了。”

“Thank you… it’s beautiful.”
“谢谢…它真漂亮。”

“Oi you two, hurry up or Wormtail’s going to start on the cake!” James screamed up the stairs, ignoring Lily’s attempts to shush him.
“喂，你们两个，快点，不然虫尾巴就要开始切蛋糕了！”詹姆斯在楼梯上大叫，不理会莉莉试图让他安静的举动。

Remus and Sirius grinned at each other, and headed down, holding hands right until the bottom step.
雷木斯和天狼星相视而笑，然后牵着手下楼，一直到最后一步。

The common room was in an incredible state; barely recognisable. Multi coloured fairy lights hung from every rafter, balloons drifted up and down like weird bloated jellyfish, the suits of armour occasionally belched flame-free fireworks, and there were people on every stretch of carpet and bottles on every surface.

休息室一片混乱，几乎无法辨认。每根椽子上都挂着五颜六色的小彩灯，气球像奇怪的膨胀水母一样上下漂浮，盔甲不时喷出无火焰的烟火，地毯上到处都是人，表面上堆满了瓶子。

“Jean Genie! Lives on his back! Jean Genie! Loves chimney stacks! He’s outrageous, he screams and he bawls…”
“Jean Genie！背上住着Jean Genie！爱烟囱堆！他放肆无忌，他尖叫大喊…”

Most of the revellers were now leaping around the room with all the grace and dignity of kids on pogo sticks, led by James, Peter, Lily and Mary, who were jumping the most vigorously. James stopped when he saw Remus, and raised his arms cheering,
大多数狂欢者现在像跳跳杆上的孩子一样优雅而体面地在房间里跳来跳去，由詹姆斯、彼得、莉莉和玛丽带头，他们跳得最起劲。詹姆斯看到雷木斯时停下来，举起双臂欢呼，

“Moonyyyyy!”
“月亮脸——！”

“Cake!” Peter began to chant, “Cake, cake cake!”
“蛋糕！”彼得开始喊，“蛋糕，蛋糕蛋糕！”

Everybody joined in, and the crowd parted for Christopher and Marlene, who carried between them an enormous rectangular cake, the size of an overstuffed pillowcase. As they brought it to Remus, he saw with a flush of delight that it was decorated with chocolate buttercream icing to look like a gigantic leatherbound book.
所有人都加入了进来，人群为克里斯托弗和马琳让开，他们抬着一个巨大的长方形蛋糕，像一个装满的枕套那么大。当他们把蛋糕带到雷木斯面前时，他惊喜地看到蛋糕上装饰着巧克力奶油糖霜，看起来像一本巨大的皮革书。

“My two favourite things,” he laughed, ignoring the elbow in the ribs from Sirius.
“我最喜欢的两样东西，”他笑着说，无视天狼星的肘击。

He blew out the candles, and cut the cake, making the same wish both times. After that, James started leading everyone in a series of toasts; each more convoluted and elaborate than the last, encouraged by Sirius and Peter. That meant at least two more pints of cider, and some of Mary’s witches brew when he ran out.
他吹灭蜡烛，切了蛋糕，两次都许了同一个愿。之后，詹姆斯开始带领大家一系列的祝酒；每次都比上一次更复杂和精致，在天狼星和彼得的鼓励下。这意味着至少再喝两品脱的苹果酒，还有玛丽的女巫酿造，当他喝完时。

Remus’s last memory of his eighteenth birthday party was some lunatic deciding to put on Goats Head Soup - which had to be his least favourite Rolling Stones album, but he was pissed and he didn’t care. The jumping and flailing continued, and the room was hot and loud and sweaty, and everyone was red faced and grinning - and Remus didn’t even care when Lily and James pointed and laughed at him as the final track began to play and everyone belted out at the top of their lungs;
雷木斯对自己十八岁生日派对的最后记忆是，有个疯子决定播放《Goats Head Soup》——那一定是他最不喜欢的滚石乐队专辑，但他喝醉了，不在乎。跳跃和挥舞继续，房间里热闹、吵闹、汗流浃背，所有人都脸红且咧嘴大笑——当最后一首歌开始播放时，每个人都高声唱起，莉莉和詹姆斯指着他笑时，雷木斯甚至都不在乎

“ If I ever get back to New York, girl

Gonna make you scream all night

Yeah! You're a star fucker, star fucker, star fucker, star fucker, star!

Yeah, a star fucker, star fucker, star fucker, star fucker, star!

A star fucker, star fucker, star fucker, star fucker star!”

Notes: 

Songs in this chapter are Jean Genie by David Bowie and Star Star by The Rolling Stones (the rest of the lyrics are gross, be prepared).

Lots of call-backs in this chapter. If you want to piece together Sirius's thought process...

Sirius was kicked out of Grimmauld Place around Christmas of fifth year, the following chapters deal with this:
- Chapter 80: Fifth Year: 'Twas the night before Christmas
- Chapter 81: Fifth Year: Unforgivable

The Snape Incident(s) took place at the end of fifth year, in these chapters:
- Chapter 89: Fifth Year: The Week Before
- Chapter 90: Fifth Year: OWLs
- Chapter 91: Fifth Year: The week following

(also worth mentioning that Remus and Sirius's first kiss was between these two events, in chapter 86)
Remus forgave Sirius during Summer 1976, in this chapter:
- Chapter 95: Summer 1976 (part three: Peace Talks)

 

Chapter 142: Seventh Year: Hospital VisitsShe loved tulips. She loved daisies. She loved forget-me-nots, and gerberas and roses and daffodils - she loved every flower he brought her. He always tried to bring something. Flowers were free, as long as he kept Madam Sprout on side, and Hope hadn’t much appetite, so chocolate was no good.

她爱郁金香。她爱雏菊。她爱勿忘我，和非洲菊、玫瑰、黄水仙——她爱他带来的每一朵花。他总是尽量带些东西。只要他和斯普劳特夫人关系好，花都是免费的，而霍普没有什么胃口，所以巧克力不好。

 

They had five more meetings over the spring of 1978, and Remus would forever mark each of them by the flowers he’d brought to her. The conversations they had too, of course - but the flowers seemed to bookend everything; colouring each session with its own personality.

在1978年春天，他们又见了五次面，而雷木斯永远会用他带给她的花来标记每次见面。当然，他们的谈话也很重要——但这些花似乎给每次会面都打上了独特的印记。

 

Tulips had presided over their second meeting. They were orange, pink and yellow, with sturdy dusky green stems and sumptuous velvet petals. A very generous flower, Remus thought.

在他们第二次见面时，郁金香占据了主角。它们是橙色、粉色和黄色的，有结实的暗绿色茎秆和丰厚的天鹅绒花瓣。雷木斯认为，这是种非常慷慨的花。

 

She was ready for him, this time; she’d had her hair washed and combed, and it gleamed sunny platinum blonde against the pink hospital blankets. She’d put a spot of makeup on, too, though Remus felt bad for noticing that, because he felt he ought not to care how she looked.

这次，她已经为他的到来做好了准备；她把头发洗净并梳理好，金色的头发在粉色的医院毯子上闪耀着阳光般的光芒。她还化了点妆，尽管雷木斯注意到这点时感到有些不安，因为他觉得自己不应该在意她的外貌。

 

“I got my sister to dig out some pictures,” Hope said eagerly, tapping a brown paper envelope on her bedside, as Remus set down the weird vase he’d drunkenly transfigured.

“我让我的妹妹找出了一些照片，”霍普急切地说，一边轻轻拍打床边的一个棕色纸袋，雷木斯则放下了他醉酒时变出的那个奇怪的花瓶。

 

“What are they pictures of?” He asked, cautiously, pulling up a seat beside her. He didn’t want to be caught unawares by anything too painful.

“这些照片是什么？”他小心翼翼地问，拉过一把椅子坐在她旁边。他不想被任何痛苦的记忆打个措手不及。

 

“Some of you, as a baby,” she smiled with shiny coral lips, “Some of me and your father.”

“有一些是你小时候的照片，”她露出闪亮的珊瑚色嘴唇微笑着说，“还有一些是我和你父亲的。”

 

“Lyall.” Remus said, quickly.

“莱尔。”雷木斯迅速地说道。

 

“Me and Lyall,” she corrected herself, out of politeness.

“我和莱尔，”她出于礼貌纠正道。

 

Hope would bend over backwards to save Remus even the smallest upset; that much was clear from the beginning. He found it unsettling; very few people had ever cared about his feelings so intensely before.

从一开始，霍普就尽量避免让雷木斯哪怕有一丁点的不开心。这点非常明显。他觉得这有些不安；很少有人曾如此关心他的感受。

 

He picked up the envelope, and held it for a moment.

他拿起信封，握了一会儿。

 

“You don’t have to look. We can do it another time.” Hope said, a tremor of fear in her voice. He didn’t want to frighten her. He wanted to tell her not to worry; that he wasn’t going to run away, or disappear forever; that he wanted to be there, and get to know her. But that was all too much, so he just opened the package and smiled,

“你不必现在看。我们可以另找时间。”霍普说，声音中带着一丝恐惧。他不想吓到她。他想告诉她不要担心；他不会逃跑，也不会永远消失；他想在这里，想了解她。但这些话太多了，所以他只是打开了包裹，微笑着说，

 

“No, I want to see.”

“不，我想看。”

 

Fortunately there weren’t very many - but he was surprised to find that more than half of the photographs were magical, and the images moved in his hands like film reels.

幸运的是，照片并不多——但他惊讶地发现，超过一半的照片是魔法照片，图像在他手中像电影胶片一样移动。

 

“I’ve had to keep them hidden,” Hope confided, “Lyall never liked the usual sort of photography; he said they were too flat.”

“我不得不把它们藏起来，”霍普吐露道，“莱尔从不喜欢普通的摄影；他说它们太平淡了。”

 

“How old is he, in this one?” Remus held up a photograph of both of his parents, standing in someone’s back garden. Lyall was wearing a muggle suit, and they were both squinting against the sunshine, but smiling. He had his arm around Hope’s waist.

“他在这张照片里多大了？”雷木斯举起一张他父母站在某个后花园的照片。莱尔穿着麻瓜西装，他们都眯着眼睛对着阳光微笑着。他的手臂搂着霍普的腰。

 

“Oh, I think we’d only met a few weeks before that was taken,” Hope said, taking it from him to look closer, “He’d have been… thirty, I think?”

“哦，我想那张照片拍摄前我们才认识几周，”霍普接过照片仔细看了看，“他那时应该……三十岁吧？”

 

Remus looked at it again. He knew he looked like Lyall, he’d been told so a few times, and to some extent he agreed. They were both gangly; tall and skinny with bad posture. But Lyall looked more at ease than Remus had ever felt in his over-long body; his movements in the photograph were confident and self-assured.

雷木斯再次看了看照片。他知道自己长得像莱尔，这点他听过几次，而且在某种程度上他也同意。他们都是瘦长的；高个子，身材瘦削，姿势不好。但莱尔看起来比雷木斯在自己过长的身体里感受到的要自在得多；他在照片中的动作自信而从容。

 

She let him take the pictures back to school, and he tentatively showed his friends. Over his seven years at Hogwarts, he had been shown a lot of family photos. Peter and James kept pictures in frames on their bedside, or else tacked up on the walls over their dressers. Lily had an album that she flipped through when she was homesick, and Mary had a shoebox full of holiday snaps, Christmases, postcards and pictures of her cousins in Jamaica. So it was a surprisingly nice experience, Remus thought, being able to share his own modest collection.

她让他把照片带回学校，他试探性地给朋友们看。在霍格沃茨的七年里，他看过很多家庭照片。彼得和詹姆斯把照片放在床头的相框里，或者钉在梳妆台上的墙上。莉莉有一本相册，想家时会翻看，玛丽有一个装满假期照片、圣诞节、明信片和牙买加表亲照片的鞋盒。所以雷木斯觉得，能够分享自己的这一小小收藏是一个出乎意料的美好体验。

 

“That’s them,” he said, shyly, as they sat around the fireplace, “They’re my parents.”

“那是他们，”他腼腆地说，他们围坐在壁炉旁，“他们是我的父母。”

 

“Remus you look just like your dad!” Lily said, meaning to be kind.

“雷木斯，你看起来和你爸爸一模一样！”莉莉善意地说道。

 

“Wow, look at your mum’s hair!” Mary grinned, “What a glamour puss!”

“哇，看看你妈妈的头发！”玛丽咧嘴笑道，“真是个魅力十足的美人！”

 

“Ahhh!” James snatched another picture, waving it at everyone, “Look at little baby Moony!”

“啊！”詹姆斯抢过另一张照片，向大家挥舞着，“看看小婴儿月亮脸！”

 

It was silly, Remus knew, but he even felt the

 

 beginnings of pride, sharing his family like that. Proof that he’d been normal, once; just like his friends. This is who I am. This is who I came from.

雷木斯知道，这有点傻，但他甚至感到一丝骄傲，能够这样分享他的家庭。证明他曾经是正常的；就像他的朋友们一样。这就是我。这就是我的来历。

 

One afternoon he even returned to the Ravenclaw corridor to see the duelling trophy with Lyall’s name on it. It was the same as ever, but no longer gave him that mysterious ache of longing as it had in second year.

一个下午，他甚至回到拉文克劳走廊去看上面刻有莱尔名字的决斗奖杯。它和以前一样，但不再像二年级时那样给他带来神秘的渴望。

 

Christopher and Marlene walked past, while he was looking at it.

克里斯托弗和玛琳走过来时，他正在看着它。

 

“Oh, ‘Lupin’!” Christopher said, surprised, peering into the case to read the trophy, “Is that your dad? Cool!”

“哦，‘卢平’！”克里斯托弗惊讶地说，仔细看了看柜子里的奖杯，“那是你爸爸吗？真酷！”

 

“Thanks,” Remus put his hands in his pockets, suddenly bashful. Marlene touched his shoulder in a friendly, comforting way. He smiled at her, gratefully. “I met my mum recently,” Remus explained to Christopher, “And it just had me thinking.”

“谢谢，”雷木斯把手插进兜里，突然变得害羞起来。玛琳友好而安慰地拍了拍他的肩膀。他感激地对她笑了笑。“我最近见了我妈妈，”雷木斯对克里斯托弗解释道，“这让我开始思考。”

 

“You met your mum? I thought your parents were dead.” Christopher scratched his head. Honestly, if it wasn’t written down in a book then he could be incredibly dense about some things.

“你见了你妈妈？我以为你父母都去世了。”克里斯托弗挠了挠头。说实话，如果不是书上写明，他在某些事情上真是太迟钝了。

 

“Just Lyall.” Remus said, calmly, nodding at the trophy.

“只有莱尔。”雷木斯平静地说，点了点奖杯。

 

“So if you mum’s ok, why did you live in a home?”

“所以如果你妈妈没事，为什么你要住在孤儿院？”

 

“Shut up, Chris.” Marlene said, tutting. She slipped her arm through Remus’s, linking them together, “Come on, love, it’s dinner soon.” She began to lead him away.

“闭嘴，克里斯。”玛琳咂嘴说。她挽起雷木斯的胳膊，把他们连在一起，“走吧，亲爱的，快到晚饭时间了。”她开始带他离开。

 

“I didn’t mean to be rude!” Christopher said, hurrying along behind them.

“我不是故意无礼的！”克里斯托弗说，匆匆跟在他们后面。

 

“It’s ok.” Remus reassured him, doing some quick thinking. “My mum’s in the hospital; she’s not been well enough to look after me.” It was only half a lie.

“没关系。”雷木斯安慰他说，快速思考了一下。“我妈妈在医院；她一直身体不好，无法照顾我。”这只是半个谎言。

* * *

 “What was he like?” Remus asked Hope, next time he saw her. A pot of geraniums, this time, bright red and gaudy, with lovely wide leaves like Chinese fans. “他是什么样的人？”雷木斯下次见到霍普时问道。这次带了一盆天竺葵，鲜红而俗丽，叶子宽大像中国扇子。

“Lyall?” She asked. “莱尔？”她问道。

He nodded, braced for impact. 他点点头，做好了心理准备。

“He was the cleverest man I ever met.” Hope said, decisively. “I never understood half the things he said, but I loved to listen - and he loved to talk.” “他是我见过的最聪明的人。”霍普果断地说。“我从来没听懂过他说的一半话，但我喜欢听——而且他喜欢说。”

“Sounds a bit… arrogant?” Remus said, uncomfortably. Hope laughed, “听起来有点……傲慢？”雷木斯不舒服地说。霍普笑了，

“Oh, he was arrogant, all right! He knew it, too. Always had to be right, had to have the last word. We fought like cat and dog over it, sometimes.” She saw Remus’s look of dismay, and hurried to clarify, “I loved him for it, though. I loved how sure he was; how reliable. He never let me down.” “哦，他的确傲慢！他也知道。总是要对，总要有最后一句话。我们有时为此吵得像猫狗一样。”她看到雷木斯的失望表情，急忙澄清道，“但我爱他这一点。我爱他的自信；爱他的可靠。他从未让我失望。”

Yes he did. Remus thought, bitterly. She was forgetful about things like that - perhaps it was her illness, or just a side effect of a shortened life. She was relentlessly optimistic, unable to find fault in the people she loved. 他确实让人失望。雷木斯苦涩地想。她对这些事情忘得一干二净——也许是她的病，或者只是短命的副作用。她总是乐观，对她爱的人找不出任何毛病。

She told him how they’d met, like it was a fairytale. 她告诉他他们是如何相遇的，就像一个童话。

“I was walking home from work one afternoon - I was an operator at the telephone exchange, back then. I took a shortcut - same one I always did, from the main bus stop in town - through a little bit of woodland. Then, from out of nowhere, this man came and attacked me - a vagrant, I thought, or an escaped prisoner. I screamed, and it was Lyall who saved me. Well, I loved him the moment he held me in his arms; he was a hero. Of course, he told me later it had only been a boggart, but it was still very brave, wasn’t it?” “有一天下午，我下班回家——那时我在电话交换台做操作员。我抄了一条近路——就是我经常走的那条，从市中心的主要公交车站穿过一小片树林。然后，突然出现了一个男人，袭击了我——我以为是个流浪汉，或者是逃犯。我尖叫起来，是莱尔救了我。当他抱着我的时候，我立刻爱上了他；他是个英雄。当然，他后来告诉我，那只是一只博格特，但那仍然很勇敢，不是吗？”

Remus nodded absently. 雷木斯心不在焉地点了点头。

“I’ve met some people who knew him,” He said, “They’ve told me he had a bad temper.” “我见过一些认识他的人，”他说，“他们告诉我他脾气不好。”

“What? No.” She frowned, “He got het up sometimes - don’t we all? But he was always kind, and always gentle with us. He hated violence.” “什么？不。”她皱起眉头，“他有时会激动——难道我们不都会吗？但他总是很善良，对我们总是很温柔。他讨厌暴力。”

“Right.” Remus nodded. He never knew what to think about Lyall. Nothing about him ever felt real, because nothing Remus ever learnt could wipe away what he’d done. “对。”雷木斯点点头。他从来不知道该怎么想莱尔。关于他的一切都不真实，因为雷木斯学到的任何东西都无法抹去他所做的事。

Conversations with Hope weren’t always difficult. Often they were very pleasant; they talked about small, inconsequential things; likes and dislikes, favourite foods, favourite films or songs. 与霍普的谈话并不总是困难的。通常它们非常愉快；他们谈论一些琐碎、不重要的事情；喜欢和不喜欢的东西，最喜欢的食物，最喜欢的电影或歌曲。

She loved The Beatles, and Fairport Convention - and most of all she liked Simon and Garfunkel. She liked sad songs. She hummed along to ‘The Only Living Boy in New York’, when it came on the record player, but ‘America’ was her favourite, because it made her cry. I’m empty and aching and I don’t know why. 她喜欢披头士，和费尔波特大会——最喜欢的是西蒙和加芬克尔。她喜欢悲伤的歌曲。当唱片机播放《纽约唯一的活着的男孩》时，她会跟着哼唱，但她最喜欢的是《美国》，因为它让她哭泣。我空虚而痛苦，不知道为什么。

Sometimes she was very unwell, and she dozed, wavering in and out of consciousness. He just sat by and read his book until it was time to go. She even asked him to read to her, once or twice, 有时她病得很重，昏昏欲睡，意识模糊。他只是坐在旁边读书，直到该走的时候。她甚至有一两次让他读给她听，

“I don’t care what it’s about, I just like your voice,” she would smile under heavy eyelids. He liked those times; he really felt like they belonged to each other, then. “我不在乎内容是什么，我只喜欢你的声音，”她在沉重的眼皮下微笑着说。他喜欢那些时刻；那时他真的觉得他们属于彼此。

“Have you asked her why, yet?” Sirius asked him one evening, when he’d returned from a day at the hospital. “你问她为什么了吗？”有一天晚上，天狼星问他，当他从医院回来时。

“Asked her why what?” Remus yawned, stretching out and placing his feet in Sirius’s lap. He thought they could get away with that - it wasn’t too intimate, and the common room was relatively quiet. “问她为什么什么？”雷木斯打了个哈欠，伸展开身体，把脚放在天狼星的腿上。他认为他们可以这样——这并不太亲密，而且休息室相对安静。

“You know. Why she never got in touch.” “你知道的。为什么她从没联系过。”

Remus frowned. He leaned his head back on the arm of the settee and stared up at the ceiling. 雷木斯皱起眉头。他把头靠在沙发扶手上，仰望天花板。

“No.” He said, “I don’t see the point asking.” “没有。”他说，“我觉得没必要问。”

“I’d want to know.” Sirius replied, fiddling with Remus’s bootlaces. “我会想知道。”天狼星回答，摆弄着雷木斯的鞋带。

“Well.” Remus replied, coldly, “That’s you.” “好吧。”雷木斯冷冷地回答，“那是你。”

“Ok,” Sirius replied, “Sorry.” “好吧，”天狼星回答，“对不起。”

Remus felt a twinge of guilt. Sirius had been extremely sensitive about bringing up Hope, letting Remus take the lead when it came to discussing it, so it wasn’t fair to snap. 雷木斯感到一阵内疚。天狼星在提到霍普时一直非常敏感，让雷木斯在讨论时主导，所以他不应该发脾气。

In truth, he was terrified. He wanted very much to know exactly what Hope had been doing with herself for thirteen years, but he knew that there was no answer that would satisfy him. The other children that had been mentioned by the nurse on his first visit were never brought up, and she didn’t wear a wedding ring. There were no other photographs around her hospital bed, and no sign that anyone else was visiting. 事实上，他很害怕。他非常想知道霍普在这十三年里到底在做什么，但他知道没有一个答案能让他满意。第一次探访时护士提到的其他孩子从未被提起，她也没戴结婚戒指。她的病床周围没有其他照片，也没有其他人探访的迹象。

And Remus was selfish. He liked having Hope all to himself; pretending there was no one else in the world. It was the only way they could communicate for now, he decided; to shut out all the noise of other people, and just be themselves together.

而且雷木斯很自私。他喜欢独自拥有霍普；假装世界上没有其他人。他决定这是他们现在唯一的交流方式；排除其他人的噪音，只是彼此在一起。

 

“That’s a big book,” she smiled, waking up halfway through another visit. Daisies, that time; big, cheerful, friendly flowers. “What’s it about?”

“这是一本大书，”她微笑着说，半途中醒来。那次是雏菊；大而愉快，友好的花朵。“这本书讲的是什么？”

 

“History revision.” He explained, closing it carefully, now she was awake. “I’ve got my final exams coming up.”

“历史复习。”他解释道，小心地合上书本，因为她已经醒了。“我有期末考试要准备。”

 

“Clever boy,” she murmured, her eyelids fluttering. “What’s your best subject?”

“聪明的孩子，”她低声说，眼皮颤动。“你最擅长的科目是什么？”

 

“Um… History, I s’pose.” He replied, “But I’m good at Charms, and I like Care of Magical Creatures a lot.”

“嗯……历史吧。”他回答，“但我在咒语学上也不错，我很喜欢魔法生物学。”

 

“Just like your dad,” she smiled, eyes closing. Her face was very pale, that day, and he didn’t try to correct her, she was obviously exhausted. “Maybe you’ll save a pretty girl from a boggart, one day.” She chuckled quietly.

“就像你爸爸一样，”她微笑着，眼睛闭上。那天她的脸色非常苍白，他没有试图纠正她，她显然很疲惫。“也许有一天你会从博格特中救出一个漂亮的女孩。”她轻声笑了。

 

“Yeah, maybe.” He replied. Then, because he felt bad about lying, “I like Transfiguration, too, but my friend Sirius is the best in the class - he can turn himself into a dog and everything.”

“是啊，也许吧。”他回答。然后，因为觉得撒谎不太好，“我也喜欢变形学，但我朋友天狼星在班上最好——他能变成一只狗，什么都会。”

 

She smiled,

她微笑着，

 

“Sirius is a nice name.”

“天狼星是个好名字。”

 

“Yeah. Sirius Black.” Remus said. He was glad her eyes were closed, it made things easier. “He’s my best friend. ...I mean, I have a lot of friends, but he’s the most… we’re probably going to live together, after school finishes.”

“是的。天狼星·布莱克。”雷木斯说。他很高兴她的眼睛闭着，这让事情变得更简单。“他是我最好的朋友……我的意思是，我有很多朋友，但他是最……我们可能会在学业结束后一起住。”

 

“That’ll be nice…” she fell asleep again. Remus fidgeted for a bit, feeling anxious, then returned to his revision. He woke her up just before he had to leave, though.

“那会很不错……”她又睡着了。雷木斯焦虑地坐了一会儿，然后回到复习中。他在不得不离开之前唤醒了她。

 

“See you next week?” She clasped his hand with surprising strength.

“下周见？”她以惊人的力量握住他的手。

 

“No, sorry,” he shook his head, “I… next Friday is a full moon, so I won’t be able to travel on Saturday.”

“不，抱歉，”他摇摇头，“我……下周五是满月，所以我星期六不能旅行。”

 

“Full moon…” she murmured, taking a few seconds to understand. When the fog cleared she had a sharp look of panic which Remus couldn’t bear,

“满月……”她低声说，花了几秒钟才理解过来。当迷雾散去，她脸上露出了一种雷木斯无法忍受的尖锐恐慌表情，

 

“Maybe I can come on Sunday, though. I’ll see.” He bent down and kissed her cheek, very lightly. She began to cry, and he had to go. He was halfway across the ward when he heard her mutter, very quietly,

“也许我可以在周日来。我要看看。”他弯下腰，轻轻吻了吻她的脸颊。她开始哭泣，他不得不离开。当他走到病房中间时，他听到她非常低声地喃喃自语，

 

“Damn you, Lyall Lupin, you bastard.”

“该死的你，莱尔·卢平，你这个混蛋。”

Notes:Song lyric taken from 'America' by Simon and Garfunkel.

Remus first discovers the duelling trophy in Chapter 35.

 

Chapter 143: Seventh Year: Breakdown 

If I seem a little jittery I can't restrain myself

I'm falling into fancy fragments

Can't contain myself

I gotta breakdown, breakdown, yeah

I gotta breakdown, breakdown, yeah

Friday 24th March 1978  
1978年3月24日，星期五
03:00 AM  
凌晨3点
Remus rolled over again. He couldn’t sleep; he was too hot with the duvet on; too cold if he pushed it off. His legs kept getting all tangled up in the bedsheets, his pillow had lumps in it, and somewhere in Gryffindor tower a tap was dripping, which was driving him insane. On top of this, he just didn’t feel tired.  
雷木斯又翻了个身。他无法入睡；盖着被子太热，推开被子又太冷。他的腿总是缠在床单里，枕头上有 lumps，格兰芬多塔楼里某处的水龙头在滴水，这让他快疯了。再加上他根本感觉不到疲倦。
He sighed heavily and rolled over again. Beside him, Sirius groaned.  
他重重地叹了口气，再次翻身。在他旁边，天狼星发出了呻吟声。
“Moony, you are my best friend, and I would probably dive in front of a curse for you, but if you wake me up one more time then I cannot be held responsible for my actions.” He said this all without opening his eyes.  
“月亮，你是我最好的朋友，我可能会为了你而冒着诅咒，但如果你再把我叫醒一次，那我就不对自己的行为负责了。”他说这话时没有睁开眼睛。
“Sorry,” Remus whispered, “I think it’s the moon, I can’t sleep.”  
“对不起，”雷木斯低声说，“我想是满月的原因，我无法入睡。”
“Mmmrgh.”  
“嗯嗯。”
“Sorry.”  
“对不起。”
He got out of bed. It was no use keeping both of them up.  
他下了床。让他们俩都无法入睡是没用的。
Outside of the bed curtains, in the early morning gloom of their bedroom, Remus stood at the window for a while. It was a clear night, and the moon was almost full. Just one slither missing; he wondered if he had ever seen a full moon with his own human eyes. Perhaps he’d been too young to remember.  
在床帘外面，在他们卧室的黎明朦胧中，雷木斯站在窗边看了一会儿。今夜月光明亮，月亮几乎是满的。只差一丝，他想知道自己是否曾经用人类的眼睛见过满月。也许那时他还太年轻，记不起了。
The forest beneath the moon was black with shadow, and it seemed unbelievable to Remus that in only a few hours he and his friends would be running through those dark mysterious trees as if it was their own personal playground. Just now, it looked terrifying; a great black pit that could swallow you whole.  
月光下的森林黑暗而阴影重重，雷木斯难以相信，只过几个小时，他和他的朋友们就会在那些黑暗神秘的树林中奔跑，就像那是他们自己的游乐场一样。现在看起来却很吓人；像一个能吞噬你的大黑洞。
Only four more moons at Hogwarts. And then what?  
霍格沃茨只剩下四个满月。然后呢？
He put that thought away for another time.  
他把这个念头搁置到另一个时间。
Remus looked at his own empty bed, unenthusiastically. The curtains hadn’t been drawn over for weeks, because he never slept there; only used it for homework. As a consequence it was covered with books, broken quills, chocolate wrappers, scrunched up balls of paper. Even if it had been tidy, the sheets looked somehow cold and uninviting in the moonlight. He’d have sighed again, but he didn’t want to make any more noise.  
雷木斯不情愿地看着自己空荡荡的床。窗帘已经好几周没拉开过，因为他从不在那儿睡觉；只是用来做作业。因此，床上满是书本、破损的羽毛笔、巧克力包装纸、揉成一团的纸球。即使它整洁些，月光下的床单看起来也冷冷的、不太诱人。他本来还想再叹一口气，但不想再发出任何声音。
There were some biscuits in the common room. A tin of garibaldi’s from Mrs Potter. If he took his book and his fags, he could have quite a pleasant few hours before he finally fell asleep or it was time for breakfast. His stomach growled, and that was the decision made. He pulled on a pair of thick socks (they were Peter’s, actually, but he never minded lending stuff like that too much), picked up his wand and his book, and crept down to the common room, careful to step over the squeaky stair as he did.  
休息室里有些饼干。是波特夫人的加里波尔迪饼干罐。如果他带上书和烟，他可以在最后入睡或吃早餐之前享受几个愉快的小时。他的胃咕咕叫，这让他做出了决定。他穿上一双厚厚的袜子（其实是彼得的，但他不介意借这些东西），拿起魔杖和书，小心地踩过吱吱作响的楼梯，悄悄下到休息室。
As Remus pushed open the door to the common room, he realised too late that he was not alone. The fireplace was roaring, and the lamps around the couches glowing warmly. A figure was curled up on the largest red velvet settee, wrapped in a thick maroon blanket, with just a long black plait poking out of the top. In the armchair, clutching a mug of warm ovaltine, staring fixedly at the fire, was Marlene. She looked up as he entered, and Remus had no choice but to smile affably and approach her.  
当雷木斯推开休息室的门时，他才意识到自己不是一个人。壁炉里火焰熊熊，沙发上的灯光温暖地闪烁。一个身影蜷缩在最大的红色天鹅绒沙发上，裹着厚厚的酒红色毛毯，只露出一条长长的黑色辫子。在扶手椅上，紧握着一杯热奥法丁，目不转睛地盯着火焰的，是玛琳。她看到他进来时抬起了头，雷木斯只能和蔼地微笑着走向她。
As he neared, he could see that her eyes were dark and heavy, her cheeks red and tearstained.  
当他走近时，他看到她的眼睛又暗又重，脸颊红润且沾满泪痕。
“Hi,” he said, low, so as not to wake Yaz.  
“嗨，”他说，声音低沉，以免吵醒雅兹。
She gave a small, faraway smile, unfurling slightly, wiping her cheeks.  
她露出一个小小的、遥远的笑容，稍微舒展开，擦拭着她的脸颊。
“Hi.”  
“嗨。”
“You ok?” He stood just close enough. He didn’t want to know the answer. He regretted everything, and wished with every fibre of his being that he was back in bed with Sirius, getting kicked in the shin every time he rolled over.  
“你还好吗？”他站得很近。他不想知道答案。他对一切感到后悔，渴望着回到床上和天狼星在一起，每次翻身都被踢到小腿。
Marlene shook her head mournfully, staring at the fire, her eyes filling up with tears. It was a familiar sight, these days, and not just Marlene. Bad news was so common. Family members in hospital, or dead, or - worse than either - missing.  
玛琳悲伤地摇摇头，盯着火焰，眼里充满了泪水。这些天来，这种情景很熟悉，不仅仅是玛琳。坏消息如此常见。家人住院，或者去世，或者——比这两者更糟——失踪了。
“I said he could get in touch through the fireplace, if he wanted to talk tonight.” She whispered, her voice hoarse as an old woman's. “Danny. It's the full moon tomorrow. Well, tonight, I suppose.” She glanced at the grandfather clock.  
“我说过，如果他今晚想谈话的话，可以通过火炉联系我。”她低声说道，声音沙哑得像个老人的。“丹尼。明天是满月。嗯，今晚吧。”她瞥了一眼祖父钟。
“Oh, is it?” Remus assumed as casual an air as possible.  
“哦，是吗？”雷木斯尽可能地装作随意。
Marlene nodded, still looking at the fire.  

玛琳点点头，仍然盯着火焰。
“It has to be tonight, you see; he’s going to
 the ministry tomorrow and they’ll lock him up in the cells there. I wanted to go home for it, but he says there’s nothing I can do.”  
“你看，今晚必须这样；他明天要去魔法部，那里的牢房会把他锁起来。我想回家去看他，但他说我无能为力。”
“I suppose there isn’t.” Remus’s stomach was clenching so hard he wanted to double over, he was so nervous and jittery already. “He’ll be ok…” he tried, hoping he sounded kind.  
“我想也是。”雷木斯的胃紧得让他想要弯腰，他已经如此紧张和神经质。“他会没事的……”他尝试着说，希望听起来温柔些。
“He’ll survive it.” She said, bitterly. “But I don’t think he’ll be ok. It takes a bit of you away, every time. I’ve seen them, at St Mungo’s. And… he told me. How it feels.”  
“他会活下来的。”她苦涩地说。“但我不认为他会好起来。每次都会带走你的一部分。我在圣芒戈见过那些人。还有……他告诉我了。那种感觉。”
“Why?!”  
“为什么？！”，
“I asked.” She shrugged. “Madam Pomfrey says I have a curious mind, that's why I’ll be a good healer. I wanted to know, so I could help. But he was so down after last month, so weak.”  
“我问过。”她耸耸肩。“波莫弗雷夫人说我有好奇心，这就是我会成为一个好治疗师的原因。我想知道，以便能帮忙。但他在上个月之后变得很沮丧，很虚弱。”
“I’m sure just being there for him helps.” Remus tried.  
“我相信只要在他身边就会有帮助。”雷木斯尝试道。
Marlene wiped her eyes again with her sleeves.  
玛琳再次用袖子擦拭眼睛。
“It just doesn’t seem like enough.” She sighed heavily, and her focus seemed to return a bit. She looked at him properly, for the first one, “Sorry love, is everything ok with you? What are you doing up?”  
“这似乎不够。”她重重地叹了口气，她的注意力似乎恢复了一些。她第一次正眼看着他，“对不起，亲爱的，你还好吗？你怎么还没睡？”
“Oh, just couldn’t sleep.” He raised his book to demonstrate.  
“哦，只是无法入睡。”他举起书来展示。
“Me neither. I knew Danny probably wouldn’t try to get through, but I couldn’t go to bed, just in case. Poor Yaz tried her best,” she gave the girl sleeping on the couch an affectionate look. “She’s too good for me by half.”  
“我也一样。我知道丹尼可能不会尝试联系，但我不能上床，以防万一。可怜的雅兹尽力了，”她给了躺在沙发上睡觉的女孩一个充满感情的看法。“她对我太好了。”
“Personally I don’t think anyone’s good enough for you.” Remus said - though it wasn’t him speaking, not really - they were Sirius’s words. He’d noticed himself sounding more and more like Sirius, and found he didn't mind it. Anyway, it made Marlene smile again.  
“我个人觉得没有人配得上你。”雷木斯说——虽然这并不是他自己在说，不完全是——这是天狼星的话。他发现自己越来越像天狼星，觉得没什么不好。无论如何，这让玛琳再次微笑。
“Lovely boy.” She said, softly. “Sit down, eh? You’re making me nervous hovering like that.”  
“可爱的孩子。”她轻声说。“坐下来，好吗？你这样在空中徘徊让我很紧张。”
He sat awkwardly on the sofa opposite Yaz. Marlene sat up, stretching, as though her back hurt. As she unfolded her legs from underneath her a quill fell onto the floor.  
他尴尬地坐在对面沙发上。玛琳坐起身来，伸展着，仿佛她的背部很疼。当她从下面伸展双腿时，一支羽毛笔掉到了地上。
“Oops,” she leaned over to pick it up, “I was going to try and write him a letter. But I don’t know what to say.” She pulled the blank parchment out from the side of the armchair cushion.  
“哎呀，”她俯身去捡起羽毛笔，“我打算试着给他写一封信。但我不知道说什么。”她从扶手椅垫子旁边拿出一张空白的羊皮纸。
Remus sat stiffly with his book on his lap.  
雷木斯僵硬地坐着，书本放在膝盖上。
“Is it really a cell they put him in? At the ministry?” He asked, unable to contain his grim curiosity. She stood up to stretch more, and nodded,  
“真的有牢房把他放在魔法部吗？”他问，无法抑制自己阴郁的好奇心。她站起来伸展，点点头，
“Yeah. Mum said. He wouldn’t tell me about it - which means it must be bad. Mum said it’s better I don’t know too much…”  
“是的。妈妈说的。他不愿告诉我——这意味着一定很糟糕。妈妈说最好不要知道太多……”
“Mmm.” Remus kept his mouth shut, not trusting himself. Marlene tilted her head sympathetically,  
“嗯。”雷木斯保持沉默，不相信自己。玛琳同情地歪了歪头，
“I’m so sorry, Remus, I didn’t even think. I feel awful whinging to you about this, given your situation.”  
“对不起，雷木斯，我没想到。我觉得向你抱怨这件事很糟糕，考虑到你的情况。”
“What?!” He stared up at her, his heart skipping a beat.  
“什么？！”他瞪大眼睛看着她，心跳漏了一拍。
“With your mum being in the hospital,” Marlene replied, yawning, setting down the quill and parchment on the coffee table between them. “No wonder you can’t sleep, either.”  
“你妈妈在医院，”玛琳回答，打了个哈欠，把羽毛笔和羊皮纸放在他们之间的咖啡桌上。“难怪你也无法入睡。”
“Oh, yeah…” He willed himself to calm down. “Yeah. It’s ok, though, I understand.”  
“哦，是的……”他强迫自己冷静下来。“是的。不过没关系，我理解。”
“Can I sit with you for a bit? You can read your book, I won’t bother you.” She asked, biting her lip. “I just don’t want to be the only one awake.”  
“我可以和你坐一会儿吗？你可以看你的书，我不会打扰你。”她咬着嘴唇问。“我只是希望我不是唯一一个醒着的人。”
“Yeah, of course.”  
“嗯，当然。”
To his surprise, she didn’t sit back down, but came over to join him on the couch. She settled in, making herself comfortable, pulling a blanket up to her chin. He pretended to do the same, opening his book and leaning casually against the arm of the chair.  
令他惊讶的是，她没有重新坐回去，而是走过来坐在沙发上。她安顿下来，让自己舒适地靠在沙发上，把毯子拉到下巴处。他假装也这样做，打开书本，随意地靠在椅子扶手上。
“Revision?” She asked, resting her cheek on his shoulder.  
“复习？”她问，脸颊靠在他的肩膀上。
“What else,” he replied. “Advanced Arithmancy.”  
“还有什么，”他回答。“高级算命术。”
“Oh Remus,” she yawned again, her voice thick, “How fascinating .” She relaxed a bit, and rested a hand on his knee. He gave it a quick squeeze for comfort.  
“哦，雷木斯，”她再次打了个哈欠，声音沉重，“多么迷人。”她稍微放松了一些，把手搭在他的膝盖上。他给了她一个简短的安慰握手。
“You know me,” he said softly, joining in her sarcasm, “I live dangerously.”  
“你知道我，”他轻声说，带着她的讽刺，“我活得很危险。”
She gave a quiet chuckle, her eyes closing. He read, and felt her heartbeat steady, her breathing even out, and in only a few minutes she was fast asleep, a dead weight curled up against him. He didn’t mind; it was quite nice.  
她轻轻地笑了笑，眼睛闭上了。他继续阅读，感受到她的心跳稳定下来，呼吸均匀，几分钟后她就快速入睡，像个死重般蜷缩在他身边。他并不介意，这其实
很舒服。
Remus stopped reading after Marlene had fallen asleep. He gently closed his book and just sat pondering for a while. He could smell the salt of her tears drying on her skin, and the anxiety in her blood. And he couldn’t get Danny out of his mind, in an imagined Ministry of Magic cell - probably underground, probably bare and dark and cold…  
玛琳入睡后，雷木斯停止了阅读。他轻轻地合上书本，静静地坐着思索了一会儿。他能闻到她眼泪在皮肤上干了的咸味和她血液中的焦虑。他无法摆脱对丹尼的想象，设想他在魔法部的牢房里——可能在地下，可能是光秃秃、黑暗而寒冷的……
The pain would be a real shock, if you’d never experienced it before, Remus thought. He could well imagine that the second full moon would feel even worse; because you’d know what was coming. No wonder Danny didn’t want to talk about it.  
雷木斯想，如果你从未经历过，这种痛苦将是一个真正的冲击。他可以很容易地想象，第二次满月的感觉会更糟；因为你会知道即将发生什么。难怪丹尼不想谈论这件事。
If what Marlene said was true, then her brother had no one else to ask about it. No one to tell him that if you tried to fight the transformation; if you tried to brace yourself against it, then it only hurt more. That murtlap essence was best for the initial cuts, but if you used muggle disinfectant too then the skin knit back together neater. Then there were the things that Remus wasn’t sure if anyone knew - about the scent of magic, or how you could draw from it. How it made you stronger, as long as you could channel it right. How being a werewolf meant lots of things, and not all of them were awful.  
如果玛琳说的是真的，那她的哥哥就没有其他人可以问了。没有人告诉他，如果你试图抵抗变形；如果你试图让自己做好准备，那么痛苦会更剧烈。那种海刺藤精华对于最初的伤口最有效，但如果你也使用麻瓜消毒剂，皮肤会更整齐地愈合。然后还有雷木斯不确定是否有人知道的事情——关于魔法的气味，或者如何从中汲取。如何让你变得更强，只要你能正确引导它。成为狼人意味着很多事情，而并非所有都是可怕的。
No closer to sleep, Remus reached for the blank bit of parchment and began to write.  
还没有更接近睡眠，雷木斯伸手拿起那张空白的羊皮纸，开始写字。

 

 * * *

I feel my brain like porridge coming outta my ears

And I was anticipating reverie

Taken leave of my senses and I'm in arrears

My legs buckle over, I'm living on my knees

I gotta breakdown, yeah

You gimme breakdown, yeah

I'm gonna breakdown, yeah, uh-huh

 

Friday 24th March 1978
5:30 pm

“You don’t have to walk me,” Remus snapped, irritably, “I know where the hospital wing is.”  

“你不必送我，”雷木斯恼火地说，“我知道医务室在哪里。”

 

“I know,” Sirius replied, cheerfully, getting up anyway.  
“我知道，”天狼星答道，仍然愉快地起身。
James, Peter and Lily all looked down at their food  
詹姆斯、彼得和莉莉都低头看着他们的食物
“You haven’t finished your dinner.” Remus frowned.  
“你还没吃完晚餐。”雷木斯皱了皱眉。
“Nor have you.”  
“你也没吃完。”
“That’s because I don’t want to puke all over myself when the crippling agony hits.” Remus muttered, darkly.  
“那是因为我不想在剧烈的痛苦袭来时呕吐一身。”雷木斯低声咕哝道，语气阴郁。
Sirius glanced down at their friends, staring stalwartly at their empty plates.  
天狼星看了一眼他们的朋友们，坚定地盯着他们的空盘子。
“C’mon, Moony, let's go…” he said, a bit more gently.  
“来吧，月亮，”他说，语气稍微温柔些，“我们走吧……”
Remus shoved his hands deep in his robe pockets and strode quickly out of the Great Hall, forcing Sirius to jog slightly to keep up. “Hey!” The dark haired boy hurried after him.  
雷木斯把手深深地塞进袍子口袋里，迅速走出大厅，逼得天狼星稍微小跑以跟上。“嘿！”黑发男孩急忙跟上他。
Remus didn’t slow down until they were halfway to the hospital wing.  
雷木斯没有减速，直到他们走到医务室的一半路程。
“Ok, I get it, you’re in one of your dark moods,” Sirius puffed.  
“好吧，我明白了，你正处于你那种阴郁的情绪中，”天狼星气喘吁吁地说。
“I’m always in a dark mood.” Remus tutted. “You ought to stop smoking, how are we going to beat Slytherin if you’re so out of breath you can’t keep up with me?”  
“我总是心情阴郁。”雷木斯咂了咂嘴。“你应该戒烟，我们怎么打败斯莱特林，如果你气喘吁吁，跟不上我？”
“You can talk,” Sirius straightened up. “This is the first time I’ve seen you without a fag in your mouth for weeks. Anyway. What’s wrong?”  
“你说得倒轻松，”天狼星挺直了身子。“这是我第一次看到你几周来没有烟在嘴里。不管怎样，怎么了？”
“Really? You have to ask.” Remus sped up again.  
“真的？你还要问。”雷木斯再次加快了步伐。
“Ok, ok,” Sirius grabbed his arm to slow him down, “You’re not sleeping and you couldn’t have dinner even though pudding was millionaire shortbread, which is your favourite… Fair enough, I’d be grumpy too.”  
“好吧，好吧，”天狼星抓住他的胳膊让他慢下来，“你没睡觉，而且即使甜点是你最喜欢的百万富翁短面包，你也没吃晚饭……说得过去，我也会不高兴。”
“I’m not ‘grumpy’.” Remus objected.  
“我才不是‘不高兴’。”雷木斯反驳道。
“Touchy, then.”  
“那么，情绪敏感。”
“Fuck off.” Remus practically growled. “Leave me alone if you’re going to be an arse.”  
“滚开。”雷木斯几乎是咆哮着说。“如果你要做个混蛋，就别来烦我。”
“I’m just trying to keep things in perspective!”  
“我只是想保持事情的视角！”
“You don’t understand.”  
“你不理解。”
“Make me understand!”  
“让我理解！”
They were near-ish the hospital wing now, and everyone was at dinner, so the corridor was empty - which was lucky, because Remus didn’t check before he completely lost his rag.  
他们现在离医务室差不多已经很近了，大家都在吃晚餐，所以走廊空荡荡的——这很幸运，因为雷木斯在完全失去理智之前并没有检查。
“Make you understand?!” He raved, “Fucking hell, ok, go on then. Understand that I’m climbing the bloody walls with worrying and stressing and… it’s NEWTs and the bloody moon and my fucking mother crying because I can’t see her tomorrow because my fucking dad couldn’t control his fucking temper and now I’m… and Marlene crying over her brother, which wasn’t even my fucking fault, but it bloody well feels like it, and school’s nearly finished, and there’s a war on, and a quidditch match and this big prank, and my hip hurts, and I’m just tired, and I really, really wanted pudding!”  
“让你理解？！”他激动地咆哮，“他妈的，好吧，那就这样吧。理解一下我正在为担忧和压力而爬墙……这有新魔法水平考试，操蛋的月亮，还有我他妈的母亲哭泣，因为我明天不能见她，因为我他妈的父亲控制不住他他妈的脾气，现在我……玛琳为她的哥哥哭泣，这甚至不是我他妈的错，但它他妈的感觉像是，而且学校快结束了，还有一场战争，一个魁地奇比赛和一个大恶作剧，我的胯部很痛，我只是累了，我真的，真的想要甜点！”
He felt foolish, once it was over, but a bit better too. Like there had been a balloon inflating in his chest all this time, and it had finally popped, giving him space to breathe again. He stood there, glaring at Sirius, waiting for a reaction.  
当一切结束后，他觉得自己很傻，但也好了一些。就像他胸口一直有一个气球在膨胀，而它终于爆了，让他再次有了呼吸的空间。他站在那里，瞪着天狼星，等待反应。
“My goodness.” The portrait across from them said. She was a very stern looking witch, seated in a high backed wooden chair. “I’ve never heard such disgusting language.”  
“天哪。”对面的画像说。她是一位看起来非常严肃的女巫，坐在一把高背木椅上。“我从未听过如此恶心的语言。”
“Oh piss off you daft old trollop.” Sirius shot at her, in a very good imitation of Remus. He looked at Remus again, and his face cracked into a smile, “You want to sit down for a bit? I think that’s the most you’ve ever said in one go.”  
“去你的，你这个愚蠢的老妖婆。”天狼星用非常好的雷木斯模仿语气回击她。他再次看向雷木斯，脸上露出了笑容，“你想坐一会儿吗？我觉得这是你一次性说过的最多的话。”
Remus exhaled, and smiled weakly back.  
雷木斯叹了口气，微笑着回望。
“Sorry.”  
“对不起。”
“For what? Come on, Madam Pomfrey’ll be having kittens…” They carried on their way, and the air was cleared, and nothing seemed quite so grim. Still, Remus hated Sirius having to go; knowing that the next time they’d see each other neither of them would be quite themselves.  
“对什么？快点，波莫弗雷夫人要急疯了……”他们继续前行，空气清新了一些，一切看起来不再那么阴郁。尽管如此，雷木斯还是讨厌天狼星离开；知道下次见面时，他们都不会完全是自己。
“So the way I see it,” Sirius said, still cheerful, after all that, “If I run back to the hall as fast as I can, I can get the last of the millionaire shortbread and wrap it up for you to have for breakfast. Anything else I can do to help?”  
“所以我认为，”天狼星说，在经历了这一切后仍然愉快，“如果我尽快跑回大厅，我可以拿到最后一块百万富翁短面包，包起来给你当早餐。还有什么我可以帮忙的？”
“You’re such a wanker sometimes.”  
“你有时候真是个混蛋。”
“Yep.”  
“嗯。”
“Actually, there is something…”  
“其实，有件事……”
“Anything.”  
“什么都行。”
“Er… could you post this, for me?” Remus handed him a sealed envelope. Sirius took it, looking down with a frown.  
“嗯……你能帮我寄这个吗？”雷木斯递给他一个封好的信封。天狼星接过来，皱着眉头看着它。
“
Are you sure?”  
“你确定吗？”
“No. But it’s the right thing to do.”  
“不。但这是正确的做法。”
“Ok. I’ll do it right now.”  
“好的。我现在就去做。”
“Thank you.”  
“谢谢。”
“Anything for our Moon---”  
“为了我们的月亮，什么都可以——”
Remus shut him up with a kiss.  

雷木斯用一个吻让他闭嘴。

 

 

* * *

Whatever makes me tick

It takes away my concentration

Sets my hands trembling, gives me frustration

Breakdown, yeah. I’m gonna breakdown yeah.

I hear that two is company,

For me it's plenty trouble

Though my double thoughts are clearer

Now that I am seeing double

Breakdown, yeah

 

Saturday 25th March 1978

The transformation hadn’t been as bad as he’d expected - maybe because nothing can ever be that bad, when you truly expect the worst. And the night itself was wonderful; he had run and run and run, until Prongs and Wormtail were lost, miles behind them, and it was just the wolf and the dog, snapping at each other playfully, goading each other on.  
这次变身没有他预期的那么糟糕——也许是因为当你真的期待最糟糕的情况时，什么都不会那么糟糕。而夜晚本身也很美妙；他不停地奔跑，直到詹姆斯和彼得被甩在几英里之外，只剩下狼和狗在嬉戏地咬着对方，激励着对方。
In the morning, once Remus had writhed and twisted back into his human body, he felt as though his bones were made of cooked spaghetti, he was so exhausted. He stumbled back to the hospital wing with Madam Pomfrey, half asleep, and was grateful to collapse into his favourite bed by the far window and sleep the whole morning away. It was blissful, to not be worrying; not fidgeting or clenching his jaw or looking for a distraction.  
早晨，当雷木斯扭曲着回到他的人类身体时，他感觉自己的骨头就像煮熟的意大利面一样，他太累了。他半睡半醒地跟着波莫弗雷夫人回到医务室，感激地倒在靠窗的最爱床上，整整睡了一上午。不必担忧，不必坐立不安，不必咬紧牙关或寻求分散注意力的事物，真是幸福。
It was late afternoon, before Marlene finally heard about the letter.  
直到下午晚些时候，玛琳才终于得知了那封信的事。
The noise of her arguing with Madam Pomfrey woke Remus. He jolted awake, heart beating faster at the sound of raised voices. The first thing he saw was Sirius, fast asleep in the chair next to him, arms folded across his chest, head lolling, feet propped up on the edge of the hospital bedframe. There was a plate of at least twenty millionaire shortcakes on the bedside table.  
她与波莫弗雷夫人争吵的声音吵醒了雷木斯。他被惊醒了，听到提高的声音，心跳加速。他看到的第一件事是天狼星在他旁边的椅子上睡得很香，双臂交叉在胸前，头低垂，脚搭在医务床边的边框上。床头柜上摆着一盘至少二十块的百万富翁短面包。
Sirius’s eyes snapped open a few seconds after Remus, and he blinked, surprised, and frowned.  
天狼星在雷木斯几秒钟后也睁开了眼睛，惊讶地眨了眨眼，皱起了眉头。
“Is that McKinnon?!”  
“那是麦金农吗？！”
“LET ME SEE HIM POPPY!”  
“让我见见他，波莫弗雷夫人！”
“MISS MCKINNON, I ABSOLUTELY WILL NOT HAVE THIS--”  
“麦金农小姐，我绝对不允许这种事——”
“I KNOW HE’S HERE!”  
“我知道他在这里！”
“I SHALL CALL PROFESSOR MCGONAGALL!”  
“我要去叫麦格教授！”
“REMUS?! REMUS LUPIN!”  
“雷木斯？！雷木斯·卢平！”
“I’m here, Marlene,” Remus began to get out of bed, ready to face the music. If it was all over, he’d still made it seven years. He was still legally allowed to perform magic, even if he did get exposed. “It’s ok, Madam Pomfrey,” he called, as Marlene came clattering across the ward, yanking back the screen which hid him.  
“我在这儿，玛琳，”雷木斯开始下床，准备面对一切。如果一切结束了，他也已经坚持了七年。他仍然在法律上被允许施展魔法，即使他被暴露了。“没关系，波莫弗雷夫人，”他喊道，玛琳大步走过病房，拉开了遮住他的帘子。
“Is it true?!” Her hair flew about her face as she stormed in, her eyes wide and wild.  
“是真的吗？！”她闯进来时，头发飞舞，眼睛瞪得大大的，显得疯狂。
She stared at him, and Remus knew she was really seeing him, for the first time; analysing. A natural Healer, Marlene looked at the bed, and Sirius, and Remus’s scars and battered frame, and he knew she was remembering every time he had been tired, or missed a lesson, or had a new scratch. The light of truth flashed her her eyes, and she burst into tears. “You fucking bastard.”  
她盯着他，雷木斯知道她真正第一次看到他；在分析。作为一个天生的治疗师，玛琳看着床，天狼星，以及雷木斯的伤疤和疲惫的身体，他知道她在回忆他每次疲倦、错过课程或有新伤的时刻。真相的光芒闪过她的眼睛，她突然泪水涌出。“你这该死的混蛋。”

 

Notes:Lyrics are from Breakdown by The Buzzcocks.

 

Chapter 144: Seventh Year: ChoicesHer phobia is infection

She needs one to survive

It's her built-in protection

Without fear she'd give up and die

 

He's a germ free adolescent

Cleanliness is her obsession

Cleans her teeth ten times a day

Scrub away, scrub away, scrub away

The S.R. way.

 

“You fucking bastard!”  
“你这该死的混蛋！”
“Oi!” Sirius was on his feet, at once.  
“喂！”天狼星立刻站了起来。
“It’s ok,” Remus said - not sure who he was talking to; Sirius, who had leapt into defence mode, or Marlene, sobbing and red faced and angry.  
“没关系，”雷木斯说道——不确定他在对谁说话；是对已经进入防御模式的天狼星，还是对玛琳，哭泣着、满脸通红、愤怒的她。
“Bastard!” She said again, defiantly, rubbing at her eyes.  
“混蛋！”她再次喊道，带着挑战的语气，擦拭着眼睛。
“Miss McKinnon!” Madam Pomfrey appeared, looking uncharacteristically flustered, “I will have you escorted out if you cannot be civil.”  
“麦金农小姐！”波莫弗雷夫人出现了，看起来异常不安，“如果你不能保持礼貌，我会让人把你请出去。”
“And you!” Marlene turned on her, “You said you didn't know anything about it! You said you’d never worked with one before!”  
“还有你！”玛琳转向她，“你说你什么都不知道！你说你从未处理过这种事！”
“Don’t blame her, Marlene please…” Remus said, sitting down on the bed again, feeling a bit woozy, “She was only trying to protect me!”  
“不要怪她，玛琳，拜托……”雷木斯说着，再次坐回床上，感觉有些眩晕，“她只是想保护我！”
“How long?!” Marlene spun around and glared at him again.  
“多久了？！”玛琳转过身，再次瞪视着他。
“... since I was five.”  
“……从我五岁时就开始了。”
“Bastard!”  
“混蛋！”
“Marlene, please…”  
“玛琳，拜托……”
She flung a piece of parchment down on the bed. It was a letter, folded up and a bit dog-eared from all the fuss. Remus reached for it with shaking hands. Marlene stood there, stone-faced, waiting for him to read it.  
她把一张纸扔到床上。那是一封信，折叠起来，经过这么多折腾已经有点磨损。雷木斯用颤抖的手伸手去拿。玛琳站在那里，脸色冷漠，等待他读完。
He unfolded it and looked down, and tried his hardest. Most of the time now, he had no trouble at all reading. But he was still very tired, and so nervous that all of a sudden he felt eleven years old again, the letters seeming to shift and change as he tried to make sense of them.  
他展开信纸，看着下面，尽力去读。现在他大多数时间阅读没有问题。但是他仍然非常疲倦，神经紧张，以至于突然间他感觉自己又回到了十一岁，字母似乎在变化，难以理解。
“Sorry,” he shook his head, “Sorry, I’ve got a headache, what does it… er…?”  
“对不起，”他摇了摇头，“对不起，我头痛，这上面写了什么……嗯……？”
Sirius took it from him, and in doing so, placed himself conspicuously between Remus and Marlene. He cleared his throat, frowning a bit.  
天狼星接过信，在这样做的同时，他明显地站在雷木斯和玛琳之间。他清了清嗓子，略微皱起了眉头。
“It’s from Danny McKinnon… bloody hell, Moony, what have you done?”  
“这是丹尼·麦金农写的……天哪，雷木斯，你做了什么？”
“Please just tell me what it says,” Remus shook his head, leaning forward and cradling his forehead in his hands. He really was getting a headache. Marlene was tapping her foot impatiently, and Madam Pomfrey was still hovering, obviously unsure whether or not to pull rank on this whole situation.  
“请告诉我上面写了什么，”雷木斯摇了摇头，身体前倾，把额头捧在手中。他真的开始头痛了。玛琳不耐烦地跺着脚，波莫弗雷夫人仍在徘徊，显然不确定是否要对这个情况施加权威。
Sirius scanned the page, much more comfortable with all the attention.  
天狼星扫描了一下信纸，对所有的关注显得更加自在。
“He says ‘thank you’.” He said.  
“他说‘谢谢’。”他说。
“What?!” Remus looked up, squinting,  
“什么？！”雷木斯抬起头，眯着眼睛看。
“Well, that’s the gist …” Sirius replied, still reading, “...He received a letter when he arrived home this morning from one of Marlene’s friends, who ‘claims to be a werewolf’. It had a lot of useful advice, and he’d like to meet you. He says he won’t tell anybody, and he has no idea who you are anyway.”  
“嗯，这就是要点……”天狼星回答，继续阅读，“……他今天早上到家时收到了来自玛琳一个朋友的信，那个朋友‘声称是狼人’。信里有很多有用的建议，他想见你。他说他不会告诉任何人，他也不知道你是谁。”
“But I do.” Marlene said. She had stopped crying now, and her voice was a bit calmer, but Remus could feel the heat of emotion radiating from her.  
“但我知道。”玛琳说道。她现在不再哭泣，声音稍微平静了一些，但雷木斯能感受到她身上的情绪热度。
“Yes.” Remus nodded, his neck stiff, “I knew you’d work it out.”  
“是的。”雷木斯点头，脖子僵硬，“我知道你会弄明白的。”
“And you sent the letter anyway?” She faltered for a moment.  
“你还寄出了那封信？”她顿了顿。
“I wanted to help.” He shrugged.  
“我想帮忙。”他耸了耸肩。
There was a long pause. Remus would have liked to lie down, but felt that it wouldn’t be well received.  
沉默了很久。雷木斯本来想躺下，但觉得这样做不会被好好对待。
“Dumbledore knows? And McGonagall?” Marlene was speaking much more quietly now, as if she could hardly believe it.  
“邓布利多知道吗？麦格教授也知道吗？”玛琳现在说话小声得多，仿佛难以置信。
“Yes.”  
“是的。”
“It’s so dangerous.” She whispered, “You could have killed someone.”  
“这太危险了。”她低声说，“你本可以害死某人的。”
“No.” Sirius said, hands on his hips, “It’s all been perfectly safe, ever since first year, hasn’t it, Poppy? Remus would never hurt anyone.”  
“不。”天狼星说道，双手插在腰间，“从一年级开始就一直非常安全，不是吗，波莫弗雷夫人？雷木斯绝不会伤害任何人。”
“Remus wouldn’t.” Marlene met his eyes, “But the wolf might.”  
“雷木斯不会。”玛琳与他的目光相遇，“但狼可能会。”
“I haven’t, not ever.” Remus felt the need to confirm. “We’ve done everything possible.”  
“我没有，绝不会。”雷木斯感到需要确认，“我们已经做了一切可能的保护措施。”
“Are you registered?” She snapped.  
“你有注册吗？”她冷冷地问。
“Er… well almost everything possible.” He conceded.  
“呃……几乎所有可能的措施。”他承认道。
“And you… you just wanted to help Danny? You weren’t trying to… I don’t know, get him on side?”  
“而你……你只是想帮丹尼？你不是想……我不知道，让他站到你这边吗？”
“What side are you talking about, McKinnon?!” Sirius stepped forward, threateningly, “Moony’s on our side. He’s your friend.”  
“麦金农你说的是什么边啊？！”天狼星威胁性地迈前一步，“雷木斯在我们这边。他是你的朋友。”
“I thought he was.” Marlene replied. She wasn’t afraid of Sirius; she could best him on the quidditch pitch any day, and Madam Pomfrey was standing right there.  
“我以为他是。”玛琳回答。她不怕天狼星；她可以在魁地奇场上打败他，波莫弗雷夫人就站在那里。
“I had to keep it secret, Marlene,” Remus pleaded, the tension too unbearable, “I had to, otherwise I could never have come to Hogwarts at all. You know what it’s like when there’s something… different about you. You know what people are like.”  
“玛琳，我不得不保密，”雷木斯
恳求道，紧张到难以忍受，“我必须这样做，否则我根本无法来到霍格沃茨。你知道当你有一些……与众不同的东西时是什么感觉。你知道人们是什么样的。”
He met her eye as he said this, and saw her turn cold with fear as it dawned on her exactly what he was alluding to.  
他说这话时与她对视，看到她随着意识到他暗示的是什么而变得恐惧。
“How dare you.” She said. “How dare you.”  
“你怎么敢。”她说，“你怎么敢。”
“No, I didn’t mean--” He held his hands up, but it was too late.  
“不，我不是那个意思——”他举起手，但已经为时已晚。
“Stay away from my family!” She snapped, before turning on her heel and storming away, in much the same way as she had arrived.  
“离我的家人远点！”她厉声道，然后转身离开，就像她来时一样。
Remus exhaled. He didn’t really feel afraid, though he had no idea what Marlene planned to do next. He wondered vaguely if he could do his NEWT exams by correspondence - or if the Potters would let him stay at theirs without James or Sirius being there. But his head was too much of a muddle to make a proper plan, and he thought he’d rather just get some sleep while he could.  
雷木斯叹了口气。他并不真正感到害怕，尽管他不知道玛琳接下来打算做什么。他模糊地想知道是否可以通过通讯方式参加NEWTS考试——或者波特夫妇是否会让他在没有詹姆斯或天狼星的情况下住在他们家。但他的头脑太混乱了，无法制定一个合理的计划，他觉得不如趁机好好睡一觉。
He lay back down on the bed, Madam Pomfrey and Sirius watching him.  
他躺回床上，波莫弗雷夫人和天狼星在看着他。
“I’m ok.” He said, “Honestly. Just going to have a little rest.”  
“我没事。”他说，“真的。只是要小休一下。”
“I’m going to speak to Professor McGonagall at once.” Madam Pomfrey said, finally.  
“我马上去找麦格教授。”波莫弗雷夫人终于说道。
“I think,” Remus said, sleepily, closing his eyes, “You might be better off talking to Marlene, once she’s calmed down. She respects your opinion. Don’t get her in trouble, she hasn’t done anything wrong.”  
“我觉得，”雷木斯睡意朦胧地说，闭上眼睛，“你还是去找玛琳谈谈吧，等她冷静下来。她尊重你的意见。不要让她陷入麻烦，她没有做错任何事。”
Madam Pomfrey gave him a very soft look, then, and came over to smooth his bedsheets a bit, touching his hand gently before leaving.  
波莫弗雷夫人给了他一个非常柔和的目光，然后走过来轻轻整理了一下他的床单，在离开前轻轻触碰了他的手。
“Hasn’t done anything wrong.” Sirius muttered, scuffing his feet against the flagstone floor. “She’s being a bigoted little cow.”  
“没做错任何事。”天狼星嘟囔道，脚在石板地上摩擦。“她真是个偏执的小母牛。”
“It’s not an uncommon point of view,” Remus sighed, “I might as well get used to it some time.”  
“这并不是一个不常见的观点，”雷木斯叹了口气，“我可能还是得早点习惯。”
“I ought to go and--”  
“我应该去……”
“No.” Remus said, sharply, “Leave her alone.”  
“不。”雷木斯尖锐地说，“别打扰她。”
“But she’s going to--”  
“但她要……”
“She’s going to talk to her friends, first.” Remus said, firmly. “Lily and Mary. I’d rather she talked to them. They’re the best people in this situation.” He yawned.  
“她会先去找她的朋友们谈谈。”雷木斯坚定地说，“莉莉和玛丽。我希望她去找他们。他们在这种情况下是最合适的人。”他打了个哈欠。
“Bloody hell, Moony.” Sirius shook his head. “How can you be so calm?!”  
“天哪，雷木斯。”天狼星摇了摇头。“你怎么能这么冷静？！ ”
“I’m knackered.” Remus replied. And it was the last thing he said for hours.  
“我累坏了。”雷木斯回答道。接下来几小时内他没有再说话。

 * * *

The thing was, whichever way it went, Remus couldn’t see much of a future for himself at Hogwarts anyway. He was grateful, obviously, for everything Dumbledore, McGonagall and Madam Pomfrey had done for him. He’d loved every one of his subjects (except Potions, maybe) and above all he had a group of friends who were dearer to him than any family would ever be. But the good things would stay good, if he had to go.  
问题是，无论结果如何，雷木斯自己也看不到在霍格沃茨的未来。他显然对邓布利多、麦格教授和波莫弗雷夫人所做的一切心怀感激。他爱过每一门课程（也许除了魔药课），最重要的是，他有一群比任何家人都亲近的朋友。但即使他必须离开，那些美好的事物也会保持美好。
He might have more time to spend with Hope. More time to dedicate to winning this terrible war. Remus was no longer really learning anything at school that he hadn’t already got from books. He yearned for practical experience; he wanted to be truly tested. You didn’t need NEWTs for that, just a well stocked library and enough nerve. Remus had everything he needed now, to do the thing he had wanted to do almost all his life.  
他可能会有更多时间与霍普在一起。更多时间致力于赢得这场可怕的战争。雷木斯在学校里已经没有真正学到任何书本以外的东西。他渴望实践经验；他想要真正的考验。你不需要NEWTS，只需要一个充足的图书馆和足够的勇气。雷木斯现在拥有了一切，他可以做他几乎一生都想做的事。
If Marlene got him dismissed from school, then Remus was finally free to seek out Greyback.  
如果玛琳让他被学校开除，那么雷木斯就可以最终自由去寻找格雷伯克。
The idea had been ticking away ever since he learnt the werewolf's name. And that night he’d written to Danny, everything seemed very clear.  
这个想法自从他了解到那只狼人名字以来就一直在盘旋。那天晚上他给丹尼写了信，一切似乎变得非常清晰。
It was the thing he was born to do. Almost as if he had inherited the task from Lyall.  
这正是他生来要做的事。几乎就像是他从莱尔那里继承了这个任务。
Gawky, insignificant, second-class Remus Lupin was never going to bring down anyone so insidiously terrible and all powerful as Lord Voldemort. But the wolf in him knew he might have a chance at Fenrir Greyback. Remus knew it might kill him, but he was bloody well going to do some damage first.  
笨拙、不重要、二等公民的雷木斯·卢平永远无法击败像伏地魔那样阴险恐怖而全能的敌人。但他内心的狼知道他可能有机会对付芬里尔·格雷伯克。雷木斯知道这可能会杀了他，但他一定要先造成一些伤害。
He’d said nothing to Sirius about this. As far as they’d come together, Remus was deeply ashamed of his own desire for revenge; his inability to tame that reckless rage. Sirius looked to him for self control; for a reasonable, measured response, and Remus wasn’t about to shatter that illusion and risk ruining everything that worked about their dynamic.  
他没有对天狼星提起这事。尽管他们一起走过了很多路，雷木斯对自己复仇的欲望深感羞愧；对那种鲁莽的愤怒无法驾驭。天狼星对他寄予自控的期望；期望一个合理、冷静的回应，雷木斯不想打破这种幻想，冒险破坏他们关系中一切有效的部分。
Anyway, Remus was eighteen now, and muggle or wizard, he could make choices for himself, no matter how dangerous. And if it took upsetting Marlene to kick everything off, then at least he’d been able to help her brother in some small way. One of Matron’s fatalistic catchphrases popped into his head, then: “ no good deed goes unpunished”. Though what good deeds Matron had ever done, he didn’t know.  
无论如何，雷木斯现在已经十八岁，无论是麻瓜还是巫师，他都可以为自己做出选择，不管多么危险。如果要让玛琳不高兴才能开始一切，那么至少他能以某种小方式帮助她的兄弟。然后，院长的宿命论口号出现在他的脑海中：“善行不免受惩罚”。尽管他不知道院长曾经做过什么善事。
It was dinner time, when he woke for the second time that day. Sirius wasn’t there any more, but the marauder’s map was tucked under Remus’s pillow. He withdrew it and saw that the marauders were all in the common room, Mary and Lily close by. There was a chicken pie on a plate by his bedside, magically kept warm somehow - Remus hadn’t worked it out yet, maybe a charm on the plate?  
这是一天中他第二次醒来的晚餐时间。天狼星已经不在了，但地图被藏在雷木斯的枕头下。他拿出地图，看到悍马们都在公共休息室，玛丽和莉莉也在附近。他床边的盘子上有一块鸡肉派，不知怎么的被魔法保持温暖——雷木斯还没搞明白，可能是盘子上的某个咒语？
He decided he would eat before anything else, and did so in silence, thinking at a mile a minute, as if his brain was making up for all the time he’d wasted sleeping. He scanned the map for Marlene. She was in the girls’ dorm, with Yaz.  
他决定先吃东西，然后一言不发地吃着，思维飞快运转，就像他的脑袋在弥补所有睡觉浪费的时间一样。他扫描了地图，寻找玛琳。她在女生宿舍，和雅兹在一起。
He didn’t know if that was good or bad. No angry mobs had come by brandishing pitchforks yet, which was probably a good sign. Madam Pomfrey came over just as he was finishing his second slice of millionaire shortbread. The thick oozy caramel was very comforting.  
他不知道这是否好或坏。还没有愤怒的暴民拿着叉子来找他，这可能是个好兆头。就在他吃完第二片千层短饼时，波莫弗雷夫人过来了。厚厚的焦糖非常令人安慰。
“How are you feeling, dear?” She asked, deep frown lines in her face.  
“你感觉怎么样，亲爱的？”她问，脸上带着深深的皱纹。
“Fine!” He said, brightly. He held out the plate to her, “Want one? I’ll never eat them all.” This was a lie and they both knew it, but Madam Pomfrey was polite enough to go along with him.  
“很好！”他说，神采奕奕地。把盘子递给她，“要一块吗？我永远吃不完。”这句话是谎言，他们都知道，但波莫弗雷夫人足够礼貌，愿意顺着他。
“Well… as there’s no one else on the ward today,” she smiled, sitting in the chair beside him and accepting a sweet. She conjured up two saucers, then poured steaming hot tea from her wand, and it was all very pleasant, but Remus could feel a Big Talk coming on.  
“好吧……因为今天病房里没有其他人，”她微笑着，坐在他旁边的椅子上，接受了一块糖果。她用魔杖召唤了两个茶杯，然后倒出了冒着热气的茶，一切都很愉快，但雷木斯能感觉到一场重要的谈话即将开始。
“I’ll go, after this,” he said, “Get out of your hair.”  
“我吃完这个就走，”他说，“不会再打扰你。”
“You’re never any trouble, Remus,” she replied kindly, blowing on her tea to cool it. “Even when you were a little boy.”  
“你从来没有麻烦过，雷木斯，”她善意地回答道，吹着茶水以使其冷却。“即使你还是个小男孩的时候也是如此。”
“I was a right little git, in first year.” Remus countered. She smiled and shook her head,  
“我一年级的时候是个讨厌鬼。”雷木斯反驳道。她笑了，摇了摇头，
“Not at all. A diamond in the rough.”  
“完全不是。你是块未经雕琢的璞玉。”
“Oh.” He said, feeling himself heat up. Anyone else he’d have told to ‘shuddup’ or ‘piss off’, but he would never, ever have a rude word to say to Madam Pomfrey.  
“哦。”他说
，感觉自己脸红了。其他人他可能会告诉他们“闭嘴”或“滚开”，但他绝对不会对波莫弗雷夫人说一句粗鲁的话。
“It’s flown by, the last few years,” she sighed, “I remember that little scrap of a thing you were; all eyes and elbows. You’ve grown into a fine young man.”  
“这几年过得很快，”她叹了口气，“我记得你以前那副小模样；全是眼睛和肘子。你已经成长为一个出色的年轻人。”
He wished she’d stop, as nice as all of this was; he didn’t know what to do with it. “And you deserve every success, Remus, do you hear me?” She continued, “It’s not going to be easy for you, after school - and I know you know that.”  
他希望她停下来，尽管这一切都很美好；他不知道该如何应对。“雷木斯，你值得拥有每一份成功，你听见了吗？”她继续说道，“学校毕业后对你来说不会容易——我知道你知道这一点。”
He nodded.  
他点了点头。
“I’ll be ok.”  
“我会没事的。”
“You will.” She smiled, her eyes brightening with tears, “And if you ever need anything, you know where to reach me.”  
“你会的。”她微笑着，眼中闪烁着泪光，“如果你需要任何帮助，你知道在哪里找到我。”
“Of course.”  
“当然。”
“I knew Danny McKinnon, you know,” She said, clearing her throat, here it comes, Remus thought. But she’d cunningly overpowered him with all that nice stuff, and he just had to grit his teeth and listen now.  
“你知道，我认识丹尼·麦金农，”她说道，清了清喉咙，雷木斯想，这就来了。但她巧妙地用所有那些温暖的话打破了他的防线，他只能咬紧牙关听下去。
“Yeah?” He said, casually, taking another slice of cake.  
“是吗？”他随意地说，拿了一块蛋糕。
“Yes, when he was a student here. Had him in here a hundred times for patching up - he was Gryffindor Beater, like Marlene. He was a bit more outgoing than she is.”  
“是的，当他还是这里的学生时。我这儿接待了他一百次来修补伤口——他是格兰芬多的击球手，和玛琳一样。他比她更外向一些。”
“I dunno,” Remus returned, dryly, “She’s hardly a shrinking violet.”  
“我不知道，”雷木斯干涩地回答，“她可不是什么胆小鬼。”
Madam Pomfrey smirked, despite herself,  
波莫弗雷夫人忍不住微笑，
“No, quite. She has that McKinnon tenacity, and a keen sense of right and wrong.”  
“是的，确实如此。她有麦金农的坚韧，还有对对错的敏锐感。”
“She does.” He sighed. He’d always liked that about Marlene; her straightforwardness, “And I know what you’re going to say - that everything isn’t that simple, that there are shades of grey, and that it doesn’t matter what people think about you, it matters what you do…”  
“确实如此。”他叹了口气。他一直喜欢玛琳的这种直率，“我知道你要说什么——一切并不像表面那么简单，有灰色地带，不在乎别人对你的看法，重要的是你做了什么……”
“Well… yes.”  
“嗯……是的。”
“I know all that, and it’s fine. I knew all that when I wrote to Danny, I even know how Marlene would react. But in the end, it didn't matter. The only thing that mattered was helping him.”  
“我知道这些，也没关系。我写信给丹尼时就知道了，我甚至知道玛琳会有什么反应。但最后，这些都无所谓。唯一重要的是帮助他。”
“I’m proud of you, Remus.”  
“我为你感到骄傲，雷木斯。”
That threw him for a loop. His throat constricted, and he almost choked trying to swallow the last of his slice, the sugar turning to acid on its way down. He spluttered and coughed, reaching for the tea to wash it down. Madam Pomfrey got up, smiling. She patted him on the shoulder as he recovered.  
这让他有些惊讶。他的喉咙收缩，几乎因为吞下最后一片蛋糕而窒息，糖在下咽的过程中变成了酸。他呛到并咳嗽，伸手去拿茶水来冲淡。波莫弗雷夫人站起来，微笑着。她在他恢复时拍了拍他的肩膀。
“I’ll let you get on.”  
“我让你继续吧。”
He took a few moments to compose himself before getting up. He brushed the crumbs from the sheets and made the bed, though he knew he didn't really need to. The rest of the sweets he wrapped up into some parchment and carefully slid the package into his bag. He might need them, later.  
他花了几分钟来整理自己，然后才起身。他扫去床单上的碎屑，整理了床铺，虽然他知道自己其实不需要这样做。他把剩下的糖果包在一些羊皮纸里，小心翼翼地把包裹滑进了他的包里。他可能会在以后需要它们。
Remus was almost surprised by how calm he felt. There was a sense of closing; of coming to an inevitable end. Someone was always going to find out, he told himself. He’d have been an idiot to think they could all hide such a big thing forever. They’d done a bloody good job, but it had all been luck, and they’d taken so many risks. At least this way, it had been Remus’s choice; he’d controlled it as much as he could. This way, the marauders were safe too. No one would know what they’d all been up to every full moon.  
雷木斯几乎对自己感到平静感到惊讶。感觉到了一种结局的感觉；一种不可避免的结局。他告诉自己，总会有人发现的。他要是以为他们能永远隐藏这样一个大秘密，那才真是傻子。他们做得非常好，但全凭运气，他们冒了很多风险。至少这样一来，这个决定是雷木斯自己的选择；他尽可能地掌控了局面。这样一来，悍马们也安全了。没有人会知道他们在每个满月期间都在干什么。
He made his way slowly back to Gryffindor Tower. He was all stiff from sleeping all day, and was grateful for the opportunity to stretch his legs in privacy. Sirius hadn’t mentioned the hip problem for a while, but Remus saw him purse his lips, or frown whenever he noticed Remus limping or rubbing his side.  
他慢慢地回到了格兰芬多塔楼。他因为整天睡觉而全身僵硬，感激能有机会在隐私中伸展一下腿。天狼星已经有一段时间没有提到髋部问题了，但雷木斯注意到他每当看到雷木斯跛行或揉着侧腰时，就会抿紧嘴唇或皱眉。
“Blatherskite,” he said to the fat lady, who barely looked up from filing her fingernails to let him through.  
“胡说八道，”他说着，对着肥婆，那位几乎没有抬头看自己，只是让他进去了。
He entered the room and felt six pairs of eyes on him at once. Steeling himself and pasting on a careless smile, he approached his friends, sitting in their usual place, taking up two sofas and an armchair.  
他进入房间时，感到六双眼睛同时盯着他。鼓起勇气，挂上一个随意的笑容，他走向他的朋友们，他们坐在他们的常坐位置上，占据了两张沙发和一个扶手椅。
“Moony!” Sirius got up from where he’d been sprawling to make room, “I was just going to come up and see if you were awake.”  
“月亮！”天狼星从他伸展开的姿势中站起来，腾出位置，“我正打算上来看看你是否醒了。”
“I’m awake,” he said redundantly, taking his seat.  
“我醒了，”他说，重复了一遍，坐下了。
“Sirius told us what you did.” Peter said, as if he couldn’t contain himself. He was fiddling with a chess piece - there was a game going on, but Remus couldn’t tell who Peter was playing.  
“天狼星告诉我们你做了什么。”彼得说，似乎无法抑制自己。他在摆弄一个棋子——游戏正在进行，但雷木斯看不出彼得在和谁对弈。
“Good,” Remus nodded. “Er… anyone spoken to Marlene?”  
“很好，”雷木斯点头。“呃……
有人和玛琳谈过吗？”
“We got yelled at,” Mary sighed, indicating herself and Lily. “I think she's mostly hurt that she was the last to find out.”  
“我们被训斥了，”玛丽叹了口气，指着自己和莉莉。“我觉得她主要是因为是最后一个知道这件事而感到伤心。”
“Mm.”  
“嗯。”
“She's not said much else, though. Been locked away with Yaz.”  
“不过，她没说太多其他的话。一直锁在和雅兹在一起。”
“Right.”  
“对。”
“Listen, Moony,” James leaned over, eyes very serious, “We’ve been talking, and remember fifth year? Dumbledore stopped Snape from telling everyone. He can stop Marlene too, if it comes to that.”  
“听着，月亮，”詹姆斯俯身过来，眼神非常严肃，“我们一直在讨论，还记得第五年吗？邓布利多阻止了斯内普告诉大家。他也可以阻止玛琳，如果到了那一步的话。”
“He might.” Remus nodded, though he wasn’t so sure. He might serve Dumbledore better out of school now than he could have at sixteen. Especially considering the contacts Remus had already made. “But leave him out if it for now, ok?”  
“他可能会。”雷木斯点了点头，尽管他并不太确定。他现在可能比在十六岁时更能为邓布利多服务。尤其是考虑到雷木斯已经建立的联系。“但现在先不让他插手，好吗？”
“Why did you do it?!” Peter asked, still clutching the chess piece.  
“你为什么要这样做？！”彼得问道，仍然紧握着棋子。
“To help Danny.” Remus replied, surprised. He looked at all of them, “He was alone, no one was helping him, Marlene told me that herself.”  
“为了帮助丹尼。”雷木斯回答，感到惊讶。他看着他们所有人，“他一个人，没人帮他，玛琳亲口告诉我的。”
“But Remus…” Lily said, “You knew how she would feel about it. You knew she wouldn’t understand.”  
“但雷木斯……”莉莉说，“你知道她会对这件事有怎样的感受。你知道她不会理解。”
“I knew that. But it was for Danny.” Remus repeated, firmly.  
“我知道那点。但这是为了丹尼。”雷木斯坚定地重复道。
They all promised to give it time, and see what Marlene decided to do next. Lily and Mary vowed that they would do everything they could, that night in their dorm, they would explain, try to convince her. Remus thanked them, because he knew how much they cared about him.  
他们都承诺给玛琳一些时间，看看她接下来决定做什么。莉莉和玛丽发誓他们会尽全力，那晚在宿舍里，他们会解释，尽力说服她。雷木斯感谢他们，因为他知道他们有多么关心他。
They had a quiet evening. Remus played chess with Peter and lost, then Sirius took over and they tied. James and Lily quizzed each other on potion ingredients and Mary half heartedly worked on job applications.  
他们度过了一个安静的晚上。雷木斯和彼得下棋输了，然后天狼星接管了，他们打成了平局。詹姆斯和莉莉互相提问关于魔药的成分，玛丽半心半意地处理工作申请。
“Half boring muggle secretarial stuff to please mum and half boring ministry of magic stuff to please McGonagall,” She sighed.  
“有一半无聊的麻瓜秘书工作是为了让妈妈高兴，另一半无聊的魔法部工作是为了让麦格教授高兴，”她叹了口气。
Eventually they went to bed, one by one, and though Remus had barely been awake for three hours that day, he climbed the stairs yawning. Sirius had been very patient. He hadn’t said so much as a word yet, and Remus knew how difficult that must be for him. So when they were finally in bed, and as alone as they could ever be at Hogwarts, he lay quietly on his back and stared up at the velvet hangings, and let Sirius speak.  
最后，他们一个一个上了床。尽管雷木斯那天几乎只醒了三个小时，但他还是打着哈欠爬上了楼梯。天狼星一直非常耐心。他还没有说过一句话，雷木斯知道这对他来说一定很困难。因此，当他们终于躺在床上，尽可能地独处时，他静静地躺在背上，仰望着天鹅绒帷幔，让天狼星说话。
“I won’t let her do this.” Sirius whispered into his ear, reaching for his hand, “I’ll talk to her, Mary and Lily’ll talk to her, and we’ll make her understand. McGonagall and Madam Pomfrey - they’ll want to help you, she'll listen to them if she won’t listen to her friends. Or Dumbledore. James could kick her off the team - anything. We won’t lose you, Moony, you’ve worked too hard, you’re not getting kicked out just for trying to be nice to that ungrateful, stuck up, intolerant…”  
“我不会让她这样做。”天狼星低声对他说，伸手握住他的手，“我会和她谈谈，玛丽和莉莉也会和她谈谈，我们会让她明白的。麦格教授和波莫弗雷夫人——他们会想要帮助你，如果她不听她的朋友，那她会听他们的。或者邓布利多。詹姆斯可以把她踢出球队——任何事情。我们不会失去你，月亮，你付出了太多努力，你不会因为试图对那个不知恩怜、傲慢、无法容忍的……人好而被踢出去的……”
“It's going to be ok, Padfoot.” Remus said.  
“会没事的，垫脚石。”雷木斯说道。
“Exactly!” Sirius nodded, his hair rustling against the pillow, “Exactly, because we’re going to stop her.”  
“没错！”天狼星点头，他的头发在枕头上沙沙作响，“没错，因为我们会阻止她。”
“No, I mean - it doesn’t matter what happens; it's going to be ok. If I leave in three months or I have to go tomorrow, everything will still be ok.”  
“不，我是说——无论发生什么；都会没事的。如果我三个月后离开，或者明天必须离开，一切仍然会没事。”
“But your NEWTs!”  
“但你的巫师等级考试！”
“Well I was looking forward to completely destroying you in History and Charms…”  
“嗯，我本来期待在历史和咒语上彻底击败你的……”
“And Arithmancy, I’ve been copying off you all year.”  
“还有算命学，我整年都在抄你的东西。”
“And Arithmancy.” Remus laughed. “But… well the NEWTs don’t mean much. I still won’t be able to enter any of the ministry training programmes without registering as a werewolf - and I’m not going to do that, not ever. I dunno if I even really want to do that sort of job. What I want is to start changing things. That's why I wrote to Danny in the first place.”  
“还有算命学。”雷木斯笑了。“不过……嗯，巫师等级考试没什么意义。我仍然无法进入任何魔法部培训项目而不注册为狼人——而且我绝不会这么做。我不确定我是否真的想做那种工作。我想做的是开始改变现状。这就是我最初写信给丹尼的原因。”
“...you mean you want to get kicked out?!”  
“……你是说你想被开除？！”
“I don’t think it will come to that. I don’t think Marlene would, even if she’s angry. But she might ask me to leave, and if it's what she wants, then I will.”  
“我不认为会变成这样。我不认为玛琳会这么做，即使她生气。但她可能会让我离开，如果这是她想要的，那我会离开。”
“And join the war.” Sirius finished. His voice sounded strange. Not bad, but Remus knew he understood.  
“然后参战。”天狼星补充道。他的声音听起来很奇怪。不是坏的，但雷木斯知道他理解了。
“Yes, I suppose you could put it that way.” Remus nodded.  
“是的，我想你可以这么说。”雷木斯点了点头。
“I’ll come with you, then. I don’t need NEWTs either, I’m a Black.”  
“那我会和你一起去。我也不需要巫师等级考试，我是布莱克家族的人。”
“I wouldn't ask you to do that.”  
“我不会要求你这么做。”
“I know. But I will. We’ll go together.”  
“我知道。但我会的。我们会一起去
的。”
“I suppose we will.”  
“我想我们会的。”
They lay together in silence. The air was heavy with the understanding that the next few months might bring dramatic changes, and neither of them were quite ready for that. But, together, they could face it all.  
他们静静地躺在一起。空气中弥漫着对接下来几个月可能带来剧变的理解，他们都还没有完全准备好。但在一起，他们可以面对一切。

 

Notes:Song at the beginning is Germ Free Adolescents by X-ray Spex

 

Chapter 145: Seventh Year: What We Lack 

 

They were wonderful promises, but it wasn’t to be. Remus would not have the chance to make a mysterious and dignified early exit from Hogwarts, and Sirius would not get the opportunity to prove he would follow his Moony anywhere.

这些承诺都很美好，但注定不会实现。雷木斯没有机会神秘而庄重地提前离开霍格沃茨，天狼星也没有机会证明他会跟随他的月亮到任何地方。

 

 

Later - after the war was over and everything else was over too - Remus would wonder whether things might have gone differently if he and Sirius had left school then. Perhaps they could have kept each other closer, or by removing themselves they could have kept other people safer.

后来——战争结束，一切都结束了——雷木斯会想，如果他和天狼星那时就离开学校，事情是否会有所不同。也许他们可以让彼此更加亲近，或者通过离开，他们可以让其他人更加安全。

 

 

Anyway. It didn’t happen, and it did no good to dwell on.

反正。这件事没有发生，沉溺于此也没有好处。

 

 

For years and years afterwards, once the agony of all those funerals and obituaries and memorials and speeches had faded, Remus would be left with memories of his last months at Hogwarts, when they had been stupid and naive and indescribably happy without even knowing it.

在随后的多年里，一旦那些葬礼、讣告、纪念活动和演讲的痛苦消退，雷木斯将只剩下对霍格沃茨最后几个月的回忆，那时他们无知、天真、幸福得无法形容，甚至不知道。

 

Wednesday 29th March 1978

The weekend passed quietly; there was homework to complete and quidditch to train for and an enormously complicated prank to plan, and Marlene did not make a move in any direction.
周末平静地度过了；有作业要完成，还有魁地奇训练和一个极其复杂的恶作剧要计划，玛琳没有在任何方向上有所行动。

Sirius and James reported that she attended quidditch practice, and played as well as she ever had, but hadn't spoken to them. Mary said she was still upset, but that she hadn’t made her mind up whether or not to tell.
天狼星和詹姆斯报告说她参加了魁地奇训练，表现得和以前一样好，但没有跟他们说话。玛丽说她仍然很不高兴，但她还没决定是否要说出来。

They were well into the next week by the time Marlene finally decided to approach Remus again. She caught him alone - which was rare, these days.
等到玛琳最终决定再次接触雷木斯时，他们已经进入了下一周。她抓住了他独自一人——这在这些日子里很少见。

He was tidying up the Charms classroom following a revision session, just before the Wednesday ‘inter-house-prank-planning-co-operative’ meeting. Usually Chris helped, but he was down with a head cold, and had taken the afternoon off. Remus had half wanted to call off the group altogether. It all seemed so futile; learning and learning and learning - for what? To pass an exam, get a good mark, and then? If Greyback didn’t kill him before he was twenty then he would still be unemployable. But everyone seemed to like the study groups, and he hated letting them down.
他在一次复习课后整理咒语教室，正好在星期三的“跨学院恶作剧计划合作”会议之前。通常是克里斯帮忙，但他感冒了，下午请了假。雷木斯一度想完全取消小组活动。一切似乎如此徒劳；学习、学习、再学习——为了什么？为了通过考试，获得好成绩，然后呢？如果格雷伯克在他二十岁之前没有杀了他，他仍然会找不到工作。但每个人似乎都喜欢这些学习小组，他讨厌让他们失望。

She entered the room smelling of herbs from the greenhouse - rosemary and sage and rich earthy soil. He turned, and unconsciously backed himself against a wall.
她走进房间，身上带着温室里草药的气味——迷迭香、鼠尾草和丰富的泥土气息。他转过身来，不自觉地靠在了墙上。

“Hello.” He said.
“你好。”他说道。

She stood still for a while, staring at him in total silence, before replying.
她站了一会儿，一言不发地盯着他，才回答道。

“Hello. I’m furious with you.”
“你好。我对你很生气。”

“I know.” He nodded, trying to be understanding, “I think that’s fair enough. Are… um. Are you ready to talk about it?”
“我知道。”他点了点头，尽量表现得理解，“我觉得这很公平。你……嗯。你准备好谈谈了吗？”

“No.” She shot, folding her arms. She glared at him, and he averted his eyes, like a supplicant begging forgiveness. He heard her fidget a bit, and sigh impatiently. “But Danny says I have to.”
“不。”她冷冷地说，抱着胳膊。她瞪着他，他像一个乞求原谅的祈求者一样移开了视线。他听到她有些焦躁不安，叹了口气。“但丹尼说我必须这样做。”

Remus consciously avoided smiling, but couldn’t ignore the flood of relief he felt at those words. He looked up again, carefully.
雷木斯刻意避免微笑，但无法忽视听到这些话后感到的释然。他再次小心翼翼地抬起头。

“You’ve spoken to him properly, then?”
“那你跟他好好谈过了吗？”

“Yes. He said he tried the murtlap essence combined with muggle TCP, and he’s healing faster. And you were right about taking a sleeping draught.”
“是的。他说他尝试了将鼠尾草精华与麻瓜TCP结合使用，他的伤愈合得更快了。你说得对，服用安眠药。”

“It’s the best thing, I’ve found. For healing.” Remus replied, warily, averting his eyes again. She made him feel so ashamed of himself.
“我发现这是最好的治疗方法。”雷木斯小心翼翼地回答，再次移开视线。她让他感到很羞愧。

“Everyone knew except me.” Marlene said. She was leaning against the opposite wall now; the whole room between them, the jumble of chairs and desks. “Even Mary.”
“除了我，大家都知道。”玛琳说道。她现在靠在对面的墙上；他们之间隔着整个房间，满是杂乱的椅子和桌子。“连玛丽都知道。”

“She worked it out, I didn’t tell her.”
“她猜到了，我没有告诉她。”

“I always thought you were weird because you were queer.”
“我一直认为你很奇怪，因为你是个怪人。”

He frowned a bit. Was he weird? He didn’t say anything, he couldn’t think of anything that would make it better.
他微微皱了皱眉。他很奇怪吗？他什么也没说，也想不出有什么能让事情变得更好的话。

“You really hurt my feelings, Remus.” Marlene continued, “You lied to me for years. I thought we were friends, I shared things with you I haven’t told anyone else.”
“你真的伤害了我的感情，雷木斯。”玛琳继续说道，“你对我撒谎了好几年。我以为我们是朋友，我和你分享了我没告诉其他任何人的事情。”

“We are friends!” Remus protested, “I’m your friend, anyway.”
“我们是朋友！”雷木斯抗议道，“我至少是你的朋友。”

He sighed heavily. Would it always be like this, when people found out? “Look, I couldn’t tell you; there were too many people involved… Madam Pomfrey, and even Dumbledore. I had to keep it quiet for their sakes, too. And… you’ve made it quite clear, in the past, how you feel about people like me.”
他重重地叹了口气。人们知道真相时总是这样吗？“听着，我不能告诉你；涉及的人太多了……波莫弗雷夫人，甚至还有邓布利多。我也不得不为了他们的利益保密。而且……你过去已经很明确地表达过你对像我这样的人是什么感觉。”

“You should have told me.”
“你应该告诉我。”

“What would you have done?” Remus was getting annoyed now. “Complained? Told everyone? Got me expelled?”
“那你会怎么做？”雷木斯现在有些恼火。“抱怨？告诉大家？让我被开除？”

“I might not have.” She bit her lip and looked away. The less certain she was, the more angry Remus grew.
“我可能不会。”她咬了咬嘴唇，移开了视线。她越是不确定，雷木斯就越是生气。

“Well I didn’t much fancy taking the risk!” He said, “I haven’t got a family, or a real home to go to, in case you’d forgotten. I haven’t got anything going for me outside of this school, so forgive me for doing everything I could to stay.”
“我可不想冒这个险！”他说道，“我没有家人，也没有真正的家可去，万一你忘了的话。我在这所学校之外一无所有，所以请原谅我尽一切可能留在这里。”

“I understand that,” She looked up, quickly, reaching her hands out, “--and I’d never want to cause you any trouble, but Remus, can’t you see how dangerous--”
“我理解这一点，”她迅速抬头，伸出手，“——而且我绝不想给你带来麻烦，但雷木斯，你难道看不出这有多危险——”

“I was eleven! I was only a kid, and this old man shows up and tells me I’m going to magic school - what would you have done?!”
“我才十一岁！我只是个孩子，这个老人出现告诉我我将上魔法学校——你会怎么做？！”

“Don’t shout at me!” She frowned, shrinking a bit. “I didn’t come to shout.”
“不要对我大喊！”她皱了皱眉，缩了缩身子。“我不是来吼的。”

“Sorry.” He muttered. “I didn’t get my chance the other day.”
“对不起。”他喃喃道。“前几天我没有机会。”

“I’m sorry about that.”
“对不起。”

“Good.”
“好。”

They were quiet after that, both looking at the ground, both fidgeting with their hands. Remus could hear Marlene’s heart thudding in a steady, anxious rhythm.
之后他们都很安静，两人都低着头，手指不停地动来动去。雷木斯能听到玛琳心跳的稳重而焦虑的节奏。

“Look.” He said, keeping his voice low and steady, unclenching his fists. “If you want me to leave Hogwarts, then I will. As long as you promise not to get anyone else in trouble, I’m not going to put up a fight.”
“听着。”他说，保持声音低沉而稳定，放松了拳头。“如果你想让我离开霍格沃茨，我就会离开。只要你保证不把其他人也牵扯进去，我不会做任何反抗。”

“But your NEWTs…”
“但你的普通巫师资格考试……”

“They won’t matter if you’re going to tell everyone how dangerous I am.”
“如果你打算告诉大家我有多危险，那它们就无所谓了。”

“You sound like Danny.”
“你听起来像丹尼。”

Quiet again. Remus shook his head, tired and exasperated. He tried a different tack.
再次安静下来。雷木斯摇了摇头，感到疲惫和恼火。他换了种方式。

“How is he, now? The letter said he wanted to meet me?”
“他现在怎么样了？信上说他想见我？”

“He's ok.” She nodded, her eyes a bit bright. “I think it cheered him up, knowing that someone else was going through the same thing.”
“他没事。”她点点头，眼中有些光亮。“我觉得知道还有其他人经历相同的事情让他心情好多了。”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, “It's something I would have liked. James and Sirius and Pete… they’ve always made sure I never felt alone. So I know how much of a difference it makes.”
“是的，”雷木斯点头道，“这是我也希望的。詹姆斯、天狼星和皮特……他们总是确保我不会感到孤独。所以我知道这有多大的不同。”

Marlene nodded and wiped her eyes.
玛琳点了点头，擦了擦眼睛。

“I’m angry.” She said, tiredly. “But I don’t know if I’m angry with you. You just… it was such a shock, and I’m not sure how many more shocks I can take, these days.”
“我很生气。”她疲惫地说，“但我不知道我是否对你生气。你只是……这真是个震惊，我不确定这些天我还能接受多少这样的震惊。”

He laughed, and didn’t really know why.
他笑了笑，实际上并不知道为什么。

She smiled, weakly. “I’m not going to say anything. I don’t want you to go anywhere. Danny says… he says we need to focus on our similarities, not our differences. Now more than ever. Lily and Mary said the same. I know they’re right, it’s just harder than I expected.”
她虚弱地笑了笑。“我不会说什么的。我不希望你离开。丹尼说……他说我们需要关注我们的相似之处，而不是我们的差异。现在比以往任何时候都更重要。莉莉和玛丽也这么说。我知道她们是对的，只是比我预期的要困难。”

“I can’t have you hating me.” He said, warily.
“我不能让你恨我。”他说，小心翼翼地。

“I don’t hate you.”
“我不恨你。”

“Hating what I am is the same thing.”
“恨我是什么样的人和恨我一样。”

“I’m trying, Remus.” She blinked away tears. “I swear, I’ll try.”
“我在努力，雷木斯。”她抹去了眼泪。“我发誓，我会尽力而为。”

“Thank you.” He nodded.
“谢谢。”他点了点头。

For a split second he was disappointed; he’d been so ready for a change. Knowing he’d have to wait a bit longer stung for a moment, but dissipated quickly, like a door closing. That was that. He would finish school and beat everyone in History - Arithmancy too, probably - and watch the final quidditch game, and get too drunk celebrating with his friends. Greyback would wait.
在那一瞬间，他感到失望；他已经迫不及待地想要改变。知道还要再等一会儿有些刺痛，但很快消散，就像一扇门关上了。就是这样。他将完成学业，击败所有人在历史学上的成绩——可能还有算命术——观看最后的魁地奇比赛，和朋友们庆祝时喝得醉醺醺的。格雷伯克会等的。

“Can I help you with this?” Marlene gestured at the messy classroom. “Potter and Black and their gang of miscreants will be here in a minute to plan their raid on Slytherin…”
“我可以帮你处理这个吗？”玛琳指着那个乱七八糟的教室。“波特和布莱克和他们那帮调皮捣蛋的家伙会很快来这里计划袭击斯莱特林……”

“Yeah, ok,” Remus nodded, and they both began moving the desks. The confrontation seemed to be over, and for now they were both satisfied. He was glad; it had been awful not having Marlene as a friend.
“好，没问题。”雷木斯点了点头，他们开始搬动桌子。争论似乎结束了，现在他们都感到满意。他很高兴；没有玛琳作为朋友是件可怕的事。

Remus and Chris usually used magic to move the classroom furniture back, but Marlene had never been good at locomotion spells, so she just started lifting and pushing things. Remus didn’t want to show off now that they were back on tentative talking terms, so he did his best to match her.
雷木斯和克里斯通常用魔法来搬回教室的家具，但玛琳从未擅长移动咒语，所以她只是开始搬抬东西。现在他们又恢复了试探性的对话，雷木斯不想炫耀，所以尽力配合她。

“I’m going to talk to Mary.” Marlene said, suddenly, lifting a chair and pushing it under a desk. “Yaz wants me to. I told Danny already.”
“我要去找玛丽谈谈。”玛琳突然说道，抬起一把椅子，把它推到一张桌子下。“雅兹让我去。我已经告诉丹尼了。”

“That's good.” Remus smiled, encouragingly. “I’m sure Mary will be fine. She’s the least judgmental person I know.”
“那很好。”雷木斯微笑着鼓励道。“我相信玛丽会没事的。她是我认识的最不具评判性的人。”

“Yeah you’re probably right.” Marlene watched him, thoughtfully as he moved the final table back into place. “Remus?”
“是的，你可能是对的。”玛琳注视着他，思索着他把最后一张桌子摆回原位。“雷木斯？”

“Hm?”
“嗯？”

“Is your limp because of the transformations?”
“你的跛行是因为变形吗？”

“Am I limping?” Remus stood a bit straighter, self conscious.
“我在跛行吗？”雷木斯站得稍微笔直了一些，感到有些自觉。

“Sometimes more than others,” she replied, matter of factly. “I always thought… with your upbringing. Someone did it to you.”
“有时候比其他时候更明显，”她直截了当地回答。“我总是认为……以你的成长背景。有人对你做过这种事。”

 

He shook his head.
他摇了摇头。

“When I was thirteen or so, I think something clicked back into place a bit wonky.” He shrugged. “Gets a bit stiff now and then. I hardly think about it now.”
“当我十三岁左右的时候，我觉得有些东西好像回到了一个不太正常的状态。”他耸了耸肩。“现在有时候会有点僵硬。我现在几乎不怎么考虑它了。”

“Mmm.” She replied, looking thoughtful.
“嗯。”她回答道，显得很深思。

“-- How many times ?!”
“——多少次 ?！”

The door flew open and Lily entered, looking furious, James trailing behind her, Peter and Sirius close behind, both smirking. “We said no pranks until the end of term! We’re supposed to be keeping a low profile, you’re Head Boy !”
门猛地打开，莉莉怒气冲冲地进来了，詹姆斯跟在她身后，皮特和天狼星紧随其后，两人都带着讽刺的笑容。“我们说过考试结束前不要恶作剧！我们应该保持低调，你可是级长！”

“C’mon, Evans,” James said, hands out, “That was nothing, barely even a prank, it was… er…” he cast a pleading glance at Sirius,
“拜托，埃文斯，”詹姆斯说，双手摊开，“这没什么，几乎不算恶作剧，那个……呃……”他向天狼星投去求助的目光，

“High spirits!” Sirius supplied.
“高涨的精神！”天狼星补充道。

“High spirits!” James nodded, grinning.
“高涨的精神！”詹姆斯点了点头，咧嘴笑了。

“All of the bathroom mirrors suddenly reflecting back troll faces is high spirits?!” Lily rounded on them both.
“所有浴室的镜子突然映出巨怪的脸就是高涨的精神？！”莉莉转向他们俩。

It was no good, all three boys collapsed into peals of laughter.
没用，三个男孩都笑得前仰后合。

Remus sniggered too; he’d done half the research for that one. The week before he’d spent hours searching through books of troll dynasty histories for portraits to get all the features right. He hoped he’d get a chance to catch some of the reactions before Flitwick managed to break the glamour spell they’d used.
雷木斯也咯咯笑了；他为这次恶作剧做了半数的研究。前一周，他花了好几个小时在研究巨怪王朝历史的书籍中查找肖像，以确保所有特征都准确。他希望能在弗利维克破除他们使用的魅惑咒语之前，抓住一些反应的机会。

“You nutters.” Marlene smiled shyly.
“你们这些疯子。”玛琳害羞地笑了。

“Marlene!” Lily gasped.
“玛琳！”莉莉惊呼道。

They all turned to look at her, and then to Remus, agape. He made a point of smiling back at them all, relaxing his shoulders and clapping his hands together.
他们都转过头来看着她，然后又看向雷木斯，目瞪口呆。他特意对他们所有人微笑，放松了肩膀，拍了拍手。

“Come on then! This co-operative isn’t going to run itself…”
“那走吧！这个合作项目不会自己运作的……”

Sirius still had some opinions about Marlene, of course. Remus refused to hear them. He wanted the matter closed, he wanted to move on. And he wanted to meet Danny, as soon as he possibly could. For the first time, for better or for worse, Remus felt he had an ally out there. Someone who was like him, on their side. He wrote another letter, then scrapped it and tried again. Then again, and again. There was so much to say Remus wasn’t sure where to start.
天狼星当然对玛琳还有一些意见。雷木斯拒绝听取。他想要把这个问题解决，他想要继续前进。他还想尽快见到丹尼。第一次，无论好坏，雷木斯感到他在外面有一个盟友。一个像他一样、站在他们这一边的人。他写了另一封信，然后又废弃了，再次尝试。一次又一次。雷木斯有太多话要说，不知道从何说起。

“What do you want to talk to him for, though?” Sirius yawned one night in bed, as Remus gave up on another attempt to properly introduce himself. “You know more about being a werewolf than he does, it's not as if he’ll have any special insight.”
“不过你想跟他谈什么？”天狼星在床上打了个哈欠，一边雷木斯放弃了另一种正确介绍自己的尝试。“你对成为狼人了解的比他多，他不会有特别的见解。”

“It's not really about that.” Remus yawned back, putting out his wand light and lying down. He rubbed the knuckles and fingers on his right hand. Some days he felt as if he never put his quill down; he was always writing, if not feverishly revising his notes for NEWTs, then making complex calculations in aid of the big prank, or writing to Grant or Ferox or Danny.
“这不是主要问题。”雷木斯也打了个哈欠，熄灭了魔杖光芒，躺下了。他揉了揉右手的指关节和手指。有时他感觉自己好像从未放下过笔；要么在为普通巫师资格考试疯狂地复习笔记，要么进行复杂的计算以帮助大型恶作剧，或者写信给格兰特、费罗克斯或丹尼。

“Wait until school’s finished, then.” Sirius advised. “Safer for both of you.”
“等到学校结束再说吧。”天狼星建议道。“对你们俩都更安全。”

“There are three moons between now and then.” Remus replied, trying to get comfortable. The sheets always ended up wrinkled in Sirius’s bed, he had no idea how the other boy managed it.
“从现在到那时之间有三个月亮。”雷木斯回答道，试图让自己舒适一点。床单总是会在天狼星的床上皱成一团，他不知道另一个男孩是怎么做到的。

“I know that,” Sirius replied, indignantly. “But there’s not much you can do, is there?”
“我知道，”天狼星愤愤不平地回答，“但你也没什么能做的，不是吗？”

“S’pose not.”
“也许是吧。”

“And you don’t owe him anything.”
“而且你也不欠他什么。”

“No.” Remus chose his words carefully. “But I owe it to myself to do the right thing, don’t I?”
“没有。”雷木斯小心地选择了词语。“但我欠我自己做正确的事，不是吗？”

“Is that what got into your head?” Sirius was frowning, Remus could tell.
“这就是你脑子里想的？”天狼星皱着眉，雷木斯能看出来。

A flutter in his belly told him they were heading for a fight, and he could avert it right now by just changing the subject.
腹中的躁动告诉他他们正朝着争吵的方向发展，他可以通过改变话题来立即避免。

“What do you mean, ‘what got into my head’?!” Remus snapped.
“你说‘是什么让我的脑袋里出现这些想法’是什么意思？！”雷木斯厉声说道。

“When you wrote to Danny in the first place. You’ve got to admit it was a bit reckless.”
“当你第一次写信给丹尼的时候。你得承认这有点鲁莽。”

“Excuse me?!”

“Well for someone who’s spent seven years trying to keep every aspect of himself completely private, it was a bit bonkers to just go and send a letter to a stranger--”

“--my friend’s brother-- ”
“——我朋友的兄弟——”

“--spilling your guts about everything-- ”
“——倾诉你所有的事——”

“Not everything!”
“不是所有事！”

“--but if it was all in the service of doing the right thing, then I suppose that’s fine .”
“——但如果这一切都是为了做正确的事，那我想这也没问题。”

“Look, if you’re pissed off with me then just say so, this sarcastic crap doesn’t suit you, Black.” Remus rolled over onto his side.
“听着，如果你对我生气就直接说，这种讽刺的态度不适合你，布莱克。”雷木斯翻身侧躺。

“I’m not pissed off.” Sirius said.
“我没生气。”天狼星说。

“Good.”
“很好。”

Remus knew that wasn’t the end of it. He waited, practically champing at the bit.
雷木斯知道这还不是结束。他等着，几乎是急不可耐。

“...I’ve just been thinking, that’s all.” Sirius said, finally. Remus smirked to himself, before rolling back over, frowning,
“……我只是一直在想这些。”天狼星终于说道。雷木斯对自己露出了得意的笑容，然后翻了个身，皱着眉头，

“What?”
“什么事？”

“It’s like you wanted to leave, or something.”
“好像你想离开，或者说些什么。”

“Obviously I wanted to leave,” Remus hissed, going in, “I told you. It’s pointless, me doing NEWTs, pissing about with silly exams and clubs and pranks, when things are happening out there, right now . I had a chance to help, and I took it. So what if I didn’t care about the consequences?! Calling me reckless?! I thought you’d understand! What happened to wanting to get back at your family? What happened to wanting to put a stop to it?”
“显然我想离开，”雷木斯咬牙切齿地说，“我告诉过你了。做普通巫师资格考试、浪费时间在愚蠢的考试、社团和恶作剧上是毫无意义的，外面正在发生事情。我有机会去帮助，我就去做了。我不在乎后果又怎么样？！叫我鲁莽？！我以为你会理解的！你想报复你的家人呢？你想终结这一切呢？”

“I do want to…” Sirius said, sounding smaller.
“我确实想……”天狼星的声音变得有些小。

“Well you’re not acting like it. You seem more fussed about that stupid quidditch match than the war. Maybe they’re the same thing to you.”
“那么你并没有表现出这样。你似乎比战争更关心那个愚蠢的魁地奇比赛。也许对你来说它们是一样的。”

“Merlin!’ Sirius replied, weakly, “You don’t stop until you’ve tasted blood, do you?”
“梅林！”天狼星无力地回答道，“你不尝到血的味道是不会停下来的，对吧？”

“Must be the wolf in me.” Remus said, shortly.
“这可能是我内心的狼。”雷木斯简短地说。

He rolled over again and shut his eyes.
他再次翻身，闭上了眼睛。

 

Chapter 146~150Chapter Summary

146. Seventh Year: Superego (2018-04-09)
147. Seventh Year: Night and Day (2018-04-11)
148. Seventh Year: The Final (2018-04-16)
149. Seventh Year: Legacy - Part One (2018-05-08)
150. Seventh Year: Legacy - Part Two (2018-05-14)

Chapter 146: Seventh Year: Superego 

Oh mine eyes have seen the glory of the theories of Freud,

He has taught me all the evils that my ego must avoid.

Repression of the impulses results in paranoid

As the id goes marching on.

 

Saturday 1st April 1978

“Wotcher!”  

“你好！”

“Hello.”  
“你好。”
“Gawd, cheer up a bit, sunshine! After I went to all that effort to book a bloody audience wiv’ ya!”  
“天哪，开朗点儿，阳光！我可是花了不少劲儿才预约了这次该死的会面！”
“Sorry! I’m really, really happy to hear from you.”  
“对不起！我真的非常非常高兴听到你的声音。”
“Christ, you get posher by the day.”  
“天哪，你变得越来越讲究了。”
Remus laughed, despite himself. The sound echoed back through the receiver, and made him think about Grant’s voice travelling all the way through the telephone wire, from the very bottom of England, up through to him in the Scottish Highlands. Muggles were pretty magic too, really.  
雷木斯忍不住笑了。声音通过听筒回响，让他想到格兰特的声音通过电话线从英格兰的最底端传到苏格兰高地的他这里。麻瓜其实也很神奇。
“How are you?” He asked, “Still enjoying the seaside?”  
“你怎么样？”他问道，“还在享受海边的生活吗？”
“Winter was fucking dire.” Grant replied, settling into the conversation. Remus could hear the cigarette between his teeth, the grind-click of a zippo lighter. He longed to see the other boy, to see his face and watch his expressions. “Rain. Freezing cold wind - it comes in off the sea, rattles the windows worse than at St Eddy’s. Mind you, the students made up for it.”  
“冬天糟透了。”格兰特回答道，进入谈话状态。雷木斯能听到他牙齿间的香烟声，以及打火机的咔嗒声。他渴望见到另一个男孩，看看他的脸和表情。“下雨。冷得刺骨的风——从海里吹来，吓得窗户比在圣艾迪的还要响。不过，学生们弥补了这些。”
“Students?”  
“学生们？”
“At the Art College, and Brighton Poly. You get loads of our sort, at art schools. I was seeing an engineer, a poet and a painter.”  
“在艺术学院和布赖顿理工学院。你会在艺术学校遇到很多我们这种人。我见过一个工程师、一个诗人和一个画家。”
“Is that three separate people, or one very clever person?” Remus asked, wryly.  
“那是三个人，还是一个非常聪明的人？”雷木斯挖苦道。
“Cheeky beggar. Wouldn’t you like to know.” Grant snickered. “What about you, anyway? How’s lover boy?”  
“无礼的家伙。你想知道吗？”格兰特轻笑道。“那你呢？‘情人’怎么样？”
Remus snorted derisively.  
雷木斯冷笑了一下。
“Fine.”  
“还好。”
“Fine?”  
“还好？”
“Fine.”  
“还好。”
Grant exhaled loudly.  
格兰特长叹了一声。
“Lord, not another fight, is it? Tell you what, sweetheart, you want to get on top of these moods of yours.”  
“天哪，又不是吵架吧？告诉你，亲爱的，你得控制好这些情绪。”
“What moods?!” Remus frowned. Grant laughed,  
“什么情绪？！”雷木斯皱了皱眉。格兰特笑了，
“You’re the moodiest bloke I know, worse than a girl on the blob when something’s pissed you off. And you ‘aven’t half got a mouth on ya. I’ve ‘ad broken ribs hurt less than some things you’ve said.”  
“你是我认识的情绪最不稳定的人，比起那些生气时像女孩儿一样的情绪波动更严重。而且你的嘴也没轻没重。我受过的肋骨骨折比你说过的一些话还要少受伤。”
“You never said…”  
“你从没说过……”
“No, well, I let you get away with it because it's easier than picking a fight. ‘sides, it’s not your fault. I'm the same, in’t I? We all are, institutionalised kids.”  
“没有，我让你过得去，因为这比起吵架更简单。而且，这不是你的错。我也一样，不是吗？我们都是被制度化的孩子。”
“Institutionalised?!”
It was an enormous word coming from Grant, but it felt rude to say so. God, Remus thought to himself, when did I become such a snob?  
“制度化？！”这是格兰特说出来的一个大词，但觉得这样说有点不礼貌。天哪，雷木斯在心里想，我什么时候变得这么势利了？
“Yep, ‘pparently that’s what we are. The poet told me - ‘e was doing a course in psychology. Said I’m afraid to stay with one person too long ‘cos I was abandoned too much when I was small. Dumped him after that, obviously.”  
“没错，显然这就是我们。那位诗人告诉我——他在修心理学课程。他说我害怕和一个人待得太久，因为我小时候被抛弃过多。之后我当然就甩了他。”
“I’ve been with Sirius for ages.” Remus replied, defensively. “It’s only ever been him.”  
“我和天狼星在一起很久了。”雷木斯 defensively地回答道。“只有他一个人。”
“Got the same problem, though.” Grant mused, as though they were just passing the time of day, “When was the last time you let anyone be nice to you without saying something 'orrible back?”  
“不过问题一样。”格兰特若有所思地说，好像只是闲聊一样，“你上次让别人对你好而不反击是什么时候？”
Remus pressed his lips together.  
雷木斯抿紧了嘴唇。
“I don’t do that.” He said, though he already knew Grant was right. Bastard.  
“我不会那样做。”他说道，虽然他已经知道格兰特说得对。混蛋。
“If you say so.” Grant returned, casually. “How’s everything else, anyway?”  
“如果你这么说。”格兰特随意地回答。“那其他方面怎么样？”
“I met my mother.”  
“我见到了我母亲。”
“Crikey.”  
“天哪。”
“Yeah. She’s ok.”  
“是的。她还好。”
“That what’s got you all moody?”  
“这就是让你情绪低落的原因？”
“No. Maybe.”  
“不是。也许吧。”
“Wouldn’t blame you if it was. I lose it for weeks after I see mine. Loves telling me how much she hates me.” He always sounded as if he was smiling, even as he said this. It made it more unpleasant somehow.  
“如果是这样我也不会怪你。我见到我妈后会失控好几个星期。她喜欢告诉我她有多么讨厌我。”他说这话时总是带着笑意，这让人听着更不舒服。
“Well. Mine didn’t say that.” Remus said. “Actually, she said she loves me.”  
“嗯。我母亲没有那样说。”雷木斯说。“实际上，她说她爱我。”
“That’s nice, then.”  
“那就好。”
“Yeah.”  
“是的。”
“You don’t have to say it back, y’know. She dumped you, the callous cow, she’s got no right to expect it.”  
“你不需要回应的。她甩了你，这个冷酷的母亲，她没有权利期待你的回应。”
Remus reeled back a little at that, shocked.  
雷木斯对此感到震惊，稍微退后了一步。
“She had her reasons. Anyway, it’s not like I don’t feel anything for her. It’s just hard to say. S’pose your psychologist friend would think that’s down to me being ‘institutionalised’.”  
“她有她的理由。反正，我并不是对她没有感情。只是很难说出来。可能你那心理学家朋友会认为这是因为我‘被制度化’了。”
“S’pose so.”  
“可能是吧。”
“But you never had a problem. With, er… affection.”  
“但你从来没有问题。关于，呃……感情。”
Grant laughed again, a joyful cackle.  
格兰特再次笑了，发出了愉快的笑声。
“If you don’t reckon shagging every lad who looks at me sideways is a problem.”  
“如果你不认为和每个看着我斜眼的家伙上床是个问题的话。”
“I just meant you’re more open …”  
“我只是觉得你更开放……”
Remus couldn’t go on, Grant’s laughter was drowning everything out.  
雷木斯无法继续说下去，格兰特的笑声淹没了一切。
“Sorry!” He wheezed, “Gawd, I forgot how funny you were.”  
“对不起！”他喘着气说，“天哪，我忘了
你有多搞笑。”
“I thought I was moody.”  
“我还以为我很情绪化。”
“You’re a complicated man, Remus bloody Lupin. S’why I love you.”  
“你是个复杂的男人，雷木斯·该死的·卢平。这就是我爱你的原因。”
Remus groaned. Grant laughed again. “Don’t worry, not in a queer way.”  
雷木斯呻吟了一声。格兰特再次笑了。“别担心，不是那种奇怪的方式。”
That made Remus laugh, and for a good few minutes after that laughter was all that passed between them, through miles and miles of telephone wire.  

这让雷木斯笑了，而在接下来的几分钟里，笑声成为了他们之间唯一的交流，穿越了数英里长的电话线。
* * *

 

 

Remus walked back to Hogsmeade with a lighter step than he’d had an hour before. Just talking to someone outside of Hogwarts, someone outside of the war, was a wonderful relief.
雷木斯比一个小时前走回霍格斯米德的步伐轻快了许多。仅仅和一个霍格沃茨以外的人交谈，和一个战斗之外的人交流，真是一种极大的解脱。

(“I wish there was a phone at school I could use,” he’d said, apologetically, “I’d call you all the time.”
（“我希望学校里有一部电话可以用，”他带着歉意说道，“我会一直给你打电话。”）

“When we’re eccentric millionaires,” Grant mused, “We can pay someone to carry a phone around for us, everywhere we go. The engineer said they’ll be able to do that, maybe by the eighties.”
“当我们成为古怪的百万富翁时，”格兰特沉思道，“我们可以雇人随身携带电话，无论我们走到哪里。工程师说，也许在八十年代他们就能做到这一点。”

“I don’t see how that would work,” Remus frowned, “Where would you plug it in?”
“我不明白这怎么能行，”雷木斯皱眉道，“那要在哪里插上呢？”

“You’re the one at the posh school, you tell me.”)
“你在那所讲究的学校里，你告诉我吧。”）

He’d promised to meet the others in The Three Broomsticks after the phone call, which had taken weeks to plan. Sirius hadn’t said anything when Remus headed towards the phone box outside of town - maybe a few weeks ago he’d have offered to walk with him, but they still weren't being nice to each other. They weren’t being nasty, but they weren’t happy. It was tiring, but giving ground seemed like even harder work.
他在电话之后承诺去“三把扫帚”与其他人见面，这次电话的安排花了好几个星期。雷木斯前往镇外的电话亭时，天狼星没有说什么——也许几周前他会提出陪他一起走，但他们现在还是彼此不太友好。他们没有恶意，但也不快乐。这让人疲惫，而让步似乎更困难。

Remus took a moment for himself before entering the pub. He smoked, leaning against the wall under the signpost. It was a bright spring day, and the first weekend he’d had in ages which wasn’t organised within an inch of its life. He watched the busy high street, happy students walking this way and that with their friends, shopping bags bulging and faces beaming. How different was he, from them? Was he any less?
雷木斯在进入酒吧之前给自己留了一会儿时间。他抽烟，靠在路标下的墙上。那是一个明亮的春天日子，也是他很久以来第一个没有被安排得过于紧凑的周末。他看着繁忙的主要街道，快乐的学生们与朋友们走来走去，购物袋鼓鼓的，脸上满是笑容。他与他们有多么不同？他是不是更差呢？

Not to his friends, he thought, confidently. Not to Sirius.
他自信地想着，对他的朋友们来说不是这样。对天狼星也不是。

Suddenly, he caught a familiar scent on the wind, and he searched the crowd quickly to find Chris, hurrying past.
突然，他在风中闻到了熟悉的气味，他迅速在人群中寻找克里斯，发现他正匆匆路过。

“Oi! Oi, Christopher!” Remus called to him.
“喂！喂，克里斯托弗！”雷木斯呼喊道。

The mousy boy stopped, saw who was shouting, then came over - a bit reluctantly.
那个像小老鼠一样的男孩停下了，看到是谁在喊，然后过来——有些勉强。

“Hello, Remus,” he nodded, looking agitated. He didn’t have his usual bag of books, and his clothes were smarter than usual. He smelled slightly different too - a new soap, or… it couldn’t be cologne?!
“你好，雷木斯，”他点点头，看起来很不安。他没有带着平常的书包，衣服也比平时更讲究。他闻起来也有点不同——是新的香皂，还是……不可能是香水吧？！

“Hiya, not seen you in ages,” Remus smiled down at him.
“嗨，好久没见了，”雷木斯对他笑道。

“Yeah, been so busy… then I had that cold, remember?” Christopher didn’t quite meet his eyes. He was blushing; but Christopher was always blushing, so Remus didn’t put much stock in it.
“是的，最近忙得不可开交……然后我得了感冒，你还记得吗？”克里斯托弗没有直视他的眼睛。他脸红了；但克里斯托弗总是脸红的，所以雷木斯没太在意。

“Oh yeah, feeling better?”
“哦，是的，感觉好些了吗？”

“Yes, thanks.
“是的，谢谢。

“Come in, the others are all inside…”
“进来吧，其他人都在里面……”

“Oh… no, sorry, Remus, um. I’m meeting someone…”
“哦……不，抱歉，雷木斯，嗯。我正在和人见面……”

“Oh!” Remus looked him up and down again. Well now it made a bit more sense. “Who?”
“哦！”雷木斯再次打量了他一眼。现在这有点说得通了。“谁？”

“Erm. Not anyone you know… sorry, but… do you mind? I’m going to be late.”
“嗯。不认识的人……抱歉，不过……你介意吗？我会迟到的。”

“‘Course! Sorry…” Remus said, a little bit annoyed. Christopher had never brushed him off like that before. He watched him hurry off down the street and turn a corner.
“当然！对不起……”雷木斯有些恼火地说道。克里斯托弗以前从未这样冷落过他。他看着他匆忙走下街道并转过一个拐角。

Fine.
很好。

Remus stubbed out his cigarette in the pot of red geraniums on the doorstep of the pub, then pushed the door open and entered. James, Lily, Mary, Peter, Marlene and Yaz were sitting in a booth in the far corner, the table laden with empty glasses.
雷木斯在酒吧门口的红色天竺葵盆栽里熄灭了香烟，然后推开门走了进去。詹姆斯、莉莉、玛丽、彼得、玛琳和亚兹坐在远处角落的一个包厢里，桌上满是空酒杯。

He smiled walking over to them, ducking his head under the low black ceiling beams and raising a hand in greeting.
他对他们微笑着走过去，低头避过低矮的黑色天花板横梁，并举手致意。

“Moony!” James grinned, waving back. Peter and Mary moved along on the plush green velvet seat to make room for him.
“月亮！”詹姆斯笑着，挥手回应。彼得和玛丽在柔软的绿色天鹅绒座位上挪了挪，为他腾出地方。

“How was your phone call?” Lily asked, brightly.
“电话打得怎么样？”莉莉明亮地问道。

“Good, thanks.” Remus nodded. “What have you lot been up to?”
“很好，谢谢。”雷木斯点点头。“你们都在忙些什么？”

“Planning the end of year party.” Mary smiled eagerly.
“在计划年终派对。”玛丽兴奋地笑道。

“My folks said they’ll host.” James said. “We’ll invite the whole year. Most of them, anyway…”
“我父母说他们会主办。”詹姆斯说道。“我们会邀请整个年级。大多数人，反正……”

“Sounds great.” Remus grinned back.
“听起来不错。”雷木斯笑着回应。

Things had been awkward between all of them, because it was painfully obvious that he and Sirius were fighting. Lily tried to be practical and act as if she was above it all, but James was perpetually caught between them, and never knew where to look.
他们之间的关系一直很尴尬，因为很明显他和天狼星在争吵。莉莉试图表现得实际一些，好像她超越了一切，但詹姆斯却永远在他们之间徘徊，不知道该看哪里。

“Right, come and get them…!” Sirius suddenly appeared over James’s shoulder from the bar, a tray of pints in his arms. He looked up and saw Remus, and the smile died on his lips.
“好了，过来拿酒……”天狼星突然从酒吧的吧台上出现在詹姆斯的肩膀上，手里端着一盘啤酒。他抬起头看到雷木斯，笑容在他嘴唇上消失了。

Everyone looked away, embarrassed, and Remus felt something harden in his chest. A stream of scathing one-liners flashed up in his mind; spiteful, sharp things. It took an enormous effort to push them down. He didn’t want it to be easier to be cruel than kind. He refused to be that kind of person. St Edmund’s couldn't be all he ever was.
大家都转过头，尴尬地避开了目光，雷木斯感觉到胸口有些东西变得坚硬。他脑海中闪过一连串尖刻的讽刺话语；恶意而尖锐的东西。压制这些情绪需要付出巨大的努力。他不希望对别人冷酷比善良更容易。他拒绝成为那种人。圣爱德蒙德学院不能是他全部的存在。

“Hiya,” he smiled, lowering his head so that his hair fell into his eyes and he had to push the curls back. He was such a mess, he ought to get it cut.
“嗨，”他微笑着说，低下头让头发垂入眼中，并不得不把卷发推回去。他现在一团糟，应该去剪个发。

“Hi.” Sirius set the tray down with a clank. “I’ll go back and get you--”
“你好。”天狼星把托盘放下，发出一声响。“我去拿给你……”

“Remus can have mine,” Mary said, getting out of the booth, “Samuel from my Charms group has been throwing me looks all afternoon… have my seat, Black.” She nudged him into the seat, and Sirius gingerly took his place beside Remus.
“雷木斯可以坐我的位置，”玛丽说着，起身离开包厢，“我的咒语课上的萨缪尔整下午都在盯着我看……黑，你坐我的座位吧。”她把他推到座位上，天狼星小心翼翼地坐在雷木斯旁边。

“See you later!” Mary trilled, sashaying across the pub floor to a group of Ravenclaw boys.
“稍后见！”玛丽高兴地说着，摇曳着走向一群拉文克劳的男孩。

Marlene grinned and shook her head at Yaz, who laughed and squeezed her hand on top of the table. Remus’s heart skipped and he glanced around furtively.
玛琳对亚兹露出笑容，摇了摇头，亚兹笑着把手握在桌子上。雷木斯的心跳漏了一拍，他偷偷环顾四周。

No one else was looking - their little booth was in an awkward corner of the room, away from the windows and poorly lit by gaslights. No doubt the privacy was why they’d chosen it, Remus saw now that all of his friends were rosy cheeked and glassy eyed from beer. Lily was practically sitting in James’s lap, and his right hand had vanished up the back of her jumper.
没有其他人在看——他们的小包厢在房间的一个尴尬角落，远离窗户，灯光微弱。毫无疑问，隐私是他们选择这个位置的原因，雷木斯现在看到他所有的朋友脸上都带着酒红色的酒意和闪烁的眼神。莉莉几乎坐在詹姆斯的腿上，他的右手消失在她的毛衣后面。

“How was the call?” Sirius asked, neutrally, looking down at his beer.
“电话打得怎么样？”天狼星冷淡地问，低头看着他的啤酒。

“Good.” Remus replied quietly, “He sounded really well. Happy.”
“很好。”雷木斯低声回答，“他听起来很健康。很开心。”

“That's nice.”
“那很好。”

Remus took a deep swig of beer for courage. Peter was talking quidditch with Marlene and Yaz, James and Lily only had eyes for each other. He turned to Sirius, twisting sideways in the seat,
雷木斯大口喝了酒以鼓起勇气。彼得在和玛琳及亚兹谈起魁地奇，詹姆斯和莉莉只顾对视。他转向天狼星，侧身坐在座位上，

“I’m such a prick.” He said.
“我真是个混蛋。”他说。

“Yep.” Sirius drank too, still not really looking at Remus, though the corner of his lips turned up as he tilted his head back.
“是的。”天狼星也喝了酒，仍然没有真正看雷木斯，尽管他向后仰头时嘴角微微上扬。

The flash of white skin on his neck as he swallowed caught Remus’s attention. He budged up on the seat, closer to Sirius.
他吞咽时脖子上白皙的皮肤引起了雷木斯的注意。他在座位上挪近了些，靠近天狼星。

“I’m sorry.” He whispered, so that only Sirius could hear him.
“对不起。”他低声说，只有天狼星能听到。

“I can’t talk to you about anything sometimes without you biting my head off.” Sirius grumbled. “You get into these moods and I can’t reach you.”
“有时候我跟你谈什么事都不行，你总是会发火。”天狼星抱怨道。“你会进入这种情绪，我就无法触及到你。”

“I know…” Remus said, trying not to get too sidetracked by the way Sirius’s adam’s apple bobbed, or the way his pulse fluttered in that hollow above his collar bone, or his lovely slender wrists, and how he’d love to hold them fast and…
“我知道……”雷木斯说，试图不被天狼星的喉结上下跳动，或者他颈部上方凹陷处的脉搏跳动，或者他那纤细的手腕所分散注意力，他多么想紧紧握住这些……

Remus looked around once more, just in case, before leaning in even closer, pushing Sirius’s hair back with his fingers and kissing that beautiful neck, flicking his tongue up, just behind his earlobe. He heard Sirius’s sharp intake of breath, and the blood rushing so fast in his veins it sounded like fizzing, and Remus’s own temperature began to rise.
雷木斯再次环顾四周，以防万一，然后更靠近一点，轻轻推开天狼星的头发，用手指轻吻那美丽的脖子，舌头轻舔耳垂后面。他听到天狼星的急促吸气声，血液在他血管中急速流动，听起来像是气泡声，雷木斯的体温也开始上升。

“I’m really sorry,” he said again, “It’s my fault, and I’ll do better.”
“我真的很抱歉，”他说道，“这是我的错，我会做得更好。”

“Better?” Sirius muttered, his head bowed so that his hair fell over his face.
“更好？”天狼星低声道，头低下，头发垂到脸上。

“Better. I’m sorry. I lose my temper when people tell me what to do, but I’m going to try.”
“更好。我很抱歉。我会对人发脾气当别人告诉我该怎么做，但我会尝试。”

Sirius’s head inclined towards him, and Remus pulled away so that they could look each other in the eye. He wasn’t angry, or guarded anymore, which was a relief.
天狼星的头向他倾斜，雷木斯退开，让他们可以对视。他不再生气或防备，这让他松了口气。

“S’pose it’s not really my job to tell you what to do in the first place…” Sirius said, giving way so easily. He couldn’t hold grudges, except maybe for his family. He was too good, inside and out. Remus felt another pang of guilt at that, and it fortified his resolve. He would do everything to change; to deserve Sirius’s blind loyalty.
“我想这本来就不是我的工作去告诉你该怎么做……”天狼星说，轻易地让步。他无法心怀怨恨，除了对他的家人。他内外都太好了。雷木斯对此感到更深的内疚，这增强了他的决心。他会尽一切努力改变自己，去配得上天狼星的盲目忠诚。

“No, but I don’t have to be such a dick about it,” Remus countered, moving back a bit more and reaching for his drink. “I’ll make it up to you, I promise.”
“不是，但我不必这样做个混蛋，”雷木斯反驳道，稍微退后一点，伸手去拿饮料。“我会弥补的，我保证。”

“Oh yeah?” Sirius cocked an eyebrow. All things forgiven, his mind had clearly returned to its usual preoccupation.
“哦，是吗？”天狼星挑了挑眉毛。所有问题都得到原谅，他的心思显然回到了他习惯的专注上。

“Later.” Remus returned, imperiously, giving him a light slap on the thigh.
“之后。”雷木斯傲慢地回应，轻拍他的腿部。

“So what did Grant say?” Sirius settled back comfortably into the corner of the booth. The uncomfortable part over, his posture relaxed, he rested a boot against the nearest free stool, leaning forward on his knee.
“那么，格兰特说了什么？”天狼星舒适地靠在包厢的角落里。尴尬的部分结束后，他的姿势放松了，把一只靴子靠在最近的空凳上，身体前倾靠在膝盖上。

“Oh, we just caught up,” Remus said, swilling his beer lightly, “He’s still working in Brighton, has his own flat; wants to get a car for weekends.”
“哦，我们只是聊了聊，”雷木斯说，轻轻摇晃他的啤酒，“他还在布赖顿工作，有自己的公寓；想要买辆车来周末用。”

“We could go there, after school’s finished.” Sirius suggested, “If you wanted? If there’s time for a holiday.”
“我们可以去那里，学校结束后。”天狼星建议，“如果你愿意的话？如果有假期时间的话。”

“Maybe,” Remus nodded, drinking again. None of them knew what would happen when school ended; not really. Even James and Lily were hazy on the details.
“也许吧，”雷木斯点了点头，再次喝酒。没人知道学校结束后会发生什么；实际上没有。即使是詹姆斯和莉莉对细节也模糊不清。

“--so I told him I’d hex his bollocks off if he asked me one more time.” Yaz was just saying, Marlene giggling and hiding her face in her hands,
“——所以我告诉他如果他再问我一次，我会用咒语弄断他的命根子。”亚兹正说着，玛琳笑着掩饰自己的脸，

“You’re awful!”
“你真是太可怕了！”

“Well he needs to learn his lesson!”
“那他需要好好学一课！”

“Who?” James and Sirius both asked, neither one of them wanting to be left out of any gossip.
“谁？”詹姆斯和天狼星同时问，两人都不愿意错过任何八卦。

“Ugh, Lockhart,” Yaz tossed her head haughtily, her ponytail swinging.
“唔，洛克哈特，”亚兹傲慢地扔了扔头发，她的马尾摆动着。

“Is he bothering you lot again?” James frowned, “I told him to stay away from my team! I’ll tell Flitwick--”
“他又来烦你们了吗？”詹姆斯皱眉道，“我告诉过他离我的队伍远点！我会告诉弗利特维克——”

“Don’t worry, he got the message this time,” Marlene laughed, “Yaz is convincing.”
“别担心，这次他明白了，”玛琳笑道，“亚兹说得很有说服力。”

“What does he want?” Sirius asked.
“他想要什么？”天狼星问。

“He just keeps sniffing around, trying to find out what we’re up to.” James sighed, shaking his head, “Reckons he’s being left out. He’s like a more hygiene conscious version of Snape in fifth year.”
“他只是不断地打探，试图弄清楚我们在干什么。”詹姆斯叹了口气，摇了摇头，“他觉得自己被排除在外。他就像是比斯内普第五年更注重卫生的版本。”

Lily elbowed him in the ribs, which only made James laugh.
莉莉用肘子戳了戳他，这只让詹姆斯笑了起来。

“Left out of what?” Remus frowned, “He doesn’t even play, and he’s a Ravenclaw - they lost the last game.”
“被排除在什么之外？”雷木斯皱眉道，“他甚至不参加比赛，而且他还是拉文克劳——他们输掉了上一场比赛。”

“Moony!” Sirius exclaimed, “Did you just demonstrate quidditch knowledge?!”
“穆尼！”天狼星惊呼，“你刚刚展示了对魁地奇的了解？！”

Everybody laughed at him, and Remus mock-sulked, drinking more beer.
大家都笑了，雷木斯装作生气的样子，喝了更多的啤酒。

“Hard to avoid it in our bloody dorm.” He retorted.
“在我们该死的宿舍里很难避免。”他反驳道。

“Anyway, it’s not the quidditch team he’s interested in.” James shook his head, grinning, “It’s the other thing.” He said this very ominously, eyebrows knit together and casting suspicious looks around the pub. Ah, Remus thought; the prank.
“反正，他对的不是魁地奇队感兴趣。”詹姆斯摇了摇头，笑着说，“是另一个东西。”他说得非常神秘，眉头紧皱，怀疑地环顾着酒吧。啊，雷木斯想；恶作剧。

“He hasn’t asked me,” Remus said, with a shrug.
“他没问过我，”雷木斯耸耸肩说。

“That’s because you’ve got everyone fooled,” Marlene replied. “The whole school somehow thinks you’re the mild one out of this lot.”
“那是因为你把所有人都骗了，”玛琳回答道。“整个学校不知怎么的认为你是这群人中最温和的一个。”

Remus smiled at her very sweetly.
雷木斯对她甜甜地笑了笑。

“Are you suggesting I’m not?” He raised an eyebrow, grinning at her.
“你是在暗示我不是吗？”他扬起一只眉毛，冲她笑道。

Beside him, Sirius made a small strained noise in the back of his throat. His pulse still hadn’t quite settled down yet.
在他旁边，天狼星喉咙里发出了一声轻微的紧张声音。他的脉搏仍未完全平静下来。

“Right,” Lily stood up, draining her drink and wiping her lips on the back of her sleeve, “We’ve got two hours before I’ve got to start herding the prefects back, and I need to go to Scrivenshaft's before it closes. Potter?”
“好了，”莉莉站起来，喝光了饮料，用袖子擦了擦嘴，“我们还有两个小时才要开始把学生会的成员带回去，我得在斯克里文斯哈夫特关门前去一趟。波特？”

“Yep, coming,” James necked the dregs of his own pint.
“好的，马上来，”詹姆斯喝下了自己杯中的残酒。

“We both need broom polish, if you want to come, Pete?” Marlene said, kindly. Wormtail had been left out of a lot, lately; even Dorcas was ignoring him.
“我们俩都需要扫帚抛光剂，如果你想来的话，皮特？”玛琳善意地说。最近，虫尾蛇被冷落了很多；连多卡斯都在忽视他。

“Great!” He stood up eagerly, following James out of the booth.
“太好了！”他兴奋地站起来，跟着詹姆斯离开包厢。

“Black?” Marlene looked at Sirius. “Didn’t you want new gloves?”
“黑？”玛琳看着天狼星。“你不是想要新的手套吗？”

“I’ll order them from Quidditch Monthly.” He replied, barely looking up at her.
“我会从《魁地奇月刊》上订购。”他回答道，几乎没抬头看她。

“Suit yourself,” she shrugged. There was a bit of commotion as they all got their things together and settled the bill, but finally Remus and Sirius were left alone. Remus turned to him slowly, trying to look innocent.
“随你便，”她耸耸肩。大家在整理东西和结账时有些喧闹，但最终雷木斯和天狼星被留在了那里。雷木斯慢慢转向他，试图表现得无辜。

“What do you fancy doing, then? Walk? Honeyduke’s?”
“那你想做什么呢？散步？霍尼杜克糖果店？”

“When the dorm room is guaranteed to be empty for at least two hours?!” Sirius licked his lips.
“当宿舍房间确保至少空置两个小时的时候？！”天狼星舔了舔嘴唇。

“More like an hour and a half, by the time we get up there…”
“差不多一个半小时，到我们上去的时候……”

“Better get a move on then.”
“那最好快点行动。”

“Oi,” Remus smirked, standing up, hands in his pockets. “I thought I told you I don’t like being told what to do.”
“喂，”雷木斯带着得意的笑容站起身来，双手插在口袋里。“我不是告诉过你我不喜欢被人指示吗？”

They walked out of the pub single file, and Remus held the door open. As Sirius edged past him, shuffling sideways, he leaned forward subtly and whispered,
他们单行走出酒吧，雷木斯撑着门。天狼星挤过他，侧身走开时，他轻轻前倾，低声说道，

“You’ll just have to tell me what to do, then.”
“那你就得告诉我该做什么了。”

Remus grinned.
雷木斯咧嘴一笑。

Notes:Song at the beginning is 'Psychotherapy' by Melanie.

Weird British words dictionary:
Brighton Poly - Brighton Polytechnic (Now the University of Brighton). Polys were higher education centres which focused on the sciences, engineering and other vocational subjects. They couldn't offer degrees, and were seen as 'second-rate' universities. The majority of Polytechnics became Universities under the Further and Higher Education Act 1992.

'Girl on the blob' - 'blob' is UK slang for a period/menstruation.

Brighton Poly - 布莱顿理工学院（现在的布莱顿大学）。理工学院（Polys）是专注于科学、工程及其他职业课程的高等教育机构。它们不能授予学位，被视为“二流”大学。大多数理工学院在1992年的《进一步和高等教育法案》中变成了大学。

'Girl on the blob' - “blob”是英国俚语，指月经/生理期。 

 

 

Chapter 147: Seventh Year: Night and Day 

God save the queen.

The fascist regime.

They made you a moron;

A potential H bomb.

 

God save the queen.

She ain’t no human being

And there’s no future

And England’s dreaming...

 
Friday 28th April 1978
“Remus… Remus. Fuck’s sake, wake up…”
“Piss off.” Remus grumbled, shaken awake. “S’the middle of the night.”


“You’re grinding your teeth again.” Sirius complained.
“I can’t help it. Go to sleep.”
 
“Between your gnashing and Prongs’ snoring and Wormtail getting up every five minutes, how can I?!”
“Oi!” A voice came from across the room, “I have a nervous bladder膀胱!”
“You shouldn’t drink so much before bed!” Sirius hissed back.
“Sor- ry , mother .” Peter retorted反駁, grumpily暴躁的, “I didn’t realise意識到 you were monitoring my biology.”
“You trip over your dirty laundry every time you get up!”
“Actually, it was Moony’s books!”
“Not mine!” Remus called, “For the prank惡作劇!”
“All of you, shut up!” James yelled.
They were quiet, for a minute.
“Bloody Wormtail.” Sirius muttered into his pillow, rolling over.
“Great, now I need the loo…” Remus grumbled, getting out of bed, his bare feet hitting the cold floorboards.
He didn’t turn the light on in the bathroom, in an attempt to stay semi-asleep, but it was no good. By the time he’d got up, crossed the room, peed and washed his hands, Remus was fully awake. And his jaw hurt, so Sirius must have been right about the grinding. It was for the same reason Peter had been up and down all night, and probably the same reason Sirius couldn’t sleep. NEWTs started next week.
他没有打开浴室的灯，试图保持半睡眠状态，但没有用。等他起床，穿过房间，尿尿，洗手的时候，雷木斯已经完全醒了。而且他的下巴很痛，天狼星一定说得对，磨牙了。这也是彼得整夜上上下下的原因，也可能是天狼星无法入睡的原因。NEWTS 下周开始。
As he exited the little bathroom, Peter rushed forward to go in again, reaching for the panel of light switches on the wall as he did, and hitting the wrong one. Remus winced, feeling as if his retinas had blown out as startling artificial brightness filled the room.
当他走出小浴室时，彼得急忙冲向浴室，伸手去摸墙上的灯开关面板，却按错了一个。雷木斯痛苦地皱起了眉头，仿佛视网膜都被刺眼的人工亮光炸毁了一样。
“Wormtail you prick!” Sirius growled from the bed. Remus had left the curtains part way open, and the light struck across his face like a laser beam.
“虫尾，你个混蛋！”天狼星从床上低吼道。雷木斯把窗帘留了一点开，光线像激光束一样射在他的脸上。
“Sorry, sorry!” Peter said, hopping from foot to foot as he fumbled with the switches on the wall, “I didn’t mean to get that one…”
“对不起，对不起！”彼得一边在墙上的开关上摸索，一边脚踏实地地跳着，“我不是故意按那个的……”
“I can’t wait until I don’t have to share a room with you any more, you little rodent,” Sirius spat, sitting up, “Don’t you ever think about anyone else?!”
“我等不及要不再和你共用一个房间了，你这个小老鼠，”天狼星坐起来吐槽道，“你难道从来不考虑别人吗？！”
“Shut up, dickhead,” Peter replied, sounding sleepy and upset, “Think I like sharing with you and Moony?!”
“闭嘴，混蛋，”彼得回答道，听起来又困又烦恼，“我觉得自己喜欢和你们俩共享一个房间吗？！”
“What about me and Moony?!” Sirius sat up, sharply.
“我和Moony怎么样？！”天狼星猛地坐起身来。
“Just go to the loo, Peter,” Remus sighed, flicking on the bathroom light and then flicking off the big overhead bedroom light, so that they were cast into darkness once more. Peter slammed the door and locked it.
“彼得，去厕所吧，”雷木斯叹了口气，打开了浴室的灯，然后关闭了卧室的大吊灯，让房间再次陷入黑暗。彼得砰地一声关上了门，并锁上了。
“Silly little sod…” Sirius grumbled to himself.
“傻乎乎的小家伙……”天狼星自言自语道。
“Sirius!” Remus snapped, in that authoritative voice that always worked, “Stop whining.”
“天狼星！”雷木斯用那种总是有效的威严语气尖锐地说道，“别再抱怨了。”
Sirius pressed his lips together, falling instantly quiet, eyes trained on Remus.
天狼星抿了抿嘴唇，立刻安静下来，眼睛盯着雷木斯。
“Good boy,” Remus smirked. He rubbed the back of his head, glancing at the clock on Peter’s bedside table. Half past three. “I’m going downstairs, I won’t be able to sleep now.” He said. “And you can have some peace.”
“乖孩子，”雷木斯露出了得意的笑容。他揉了揉自己的后脑勺，看了一眼彼得床头柜上的时钟。三点半。他说：“我要下楼了，我现在没法再睡觉了。”他说道，“你可以安静一会儿。”
They’d been sharing Remus’s bed for the past few nights now, and though it was large, it wasn’t really meant for two fully grown boys. Unfortunately they no longer had a choice, since Sirius’s own bed had disappeared earlier that week. They’d been practicing for the prank, and hit a bit of a snag with the main incantation. Sirius remained cheerfully optimistic that it would show up again eventually, but Remus was less sure.
他们已经在过去的几晚里共用雷木斯的床，虽然床很大，但其实并不适合两个完全长大的男孩。不幸的是，他们现在没有选择，因为天狼星自己的床在那周早些时候消失了。他们一直在为恶作剧练习，遇到了主咒语的小麻烦。天狼星依然乐观地认为它最终会出现，但雷木斯却不太确定。
He went quietly down the stairs, book under his arm.
他安静地下楼，胳膊下夹着一本书。
Remus loved the common room when it was empty; it was filled with some of his very happiest memories of Hogwarts.
雷木斯喜欢空荡荡的公共休息室；这里充满了他在霍格沃茨最幸福的回忆。
He went over and opened the big bay window. He was always too warm, and forever getting yelled at for opening windows to let cold air in - but no one was around to complain. Remus inhaled the scent of the forest, and the castle; the night sky and the snow from the mountains; the velvety smooth water of the lake and every blade of grass on the quidditch pitch. Hogwarts. He wondered if he would ever feel so at home anywhere ever again.
他走过去打开了大 bay 窗户。他总是觉得太热，经常因为开窗让冷空气进来而被训斥——但现在没有人来抱怨。雷木斯深吸了一口森林和城堡的气息；夜空和山上的雪；湖水的柔滑和平稳，所有的魁地奇场上的草叶。霍格沃茨。他想知道他是否会再在任何地方感到如此的归属感。
Remus shook his head, realising how silly and sentimental he was being. He left the windows wide and turned back into the room, settling down on the big velvet couch and opening his book. He flicked his wand at the kettle hanging over the fire, and it began to heat up. He flicked through his book at his tea brewed, trying to find his place.
雷木斯摇了摇头，意识到自己有多么傻乎乎和多愁善感。他把窗户留开，转回房间，坐到大天鹅绒沙发上，打开了书。他挥了挥魔杖对着悬挂在火上的水壶，它开始加热。他在茶水煮好的时候翻阅自己的书，试图找到位置。
Where would he get his books, after Hogwarts? It was easy enough to join a muggle library - but did wizards have them too? Another question for Sirius - or maybe Chris, when Remus saw him next. Christopher had been very elusive since they’d bumped into each other in Hogsmeade.
他毕业后要从哪里获取书籍呢？加入一个麻瓜图书馆很容易——但巫师们也有图书馆吗？这是另一个问题要问天狼星——或者也许是克里斯，等雷木斯下一次见到他的时候。自从他们在霍格斯密德碰面后，克里斯托弗变得非常难以捉摸。
Just as the kettle boiled, Remus’s ears pricked at the sound of familiar footsteps descending the dormitory staircase. He smiled a secret smile to himself, and without turning around, simply summoned a second teacup from the cabinet, getting ready to pour.
就在水壶烧开时，雷木斯的耳朵竖了起来，听到熟悉的脚步声从宿舍楼梯上下来。他对自己秘密地笑了笑，没有转身，只是从柜子里召唤出第二个茶杯，准备倒茶。
“Thought you wanted to sleep?” He said, mildly, as Sirius padded across the carpet wrapped in his bed blanket, and sat in the warm spot Remus had left on the couch.
“我以为你想睡觉呢？”他说道，语气温和，当天狼星裹着床单走过地毯，坐在雷木斯留在沙发上的温暖位置上。
“Prongs’ snoring still.” Sirius yawned, pulling the blanket tighter as Remus brought over the tea. “Bloody hell, it’s freezing down here.”
“Prongs还在打鼾。”天狼星打了个哈
欠，拉紧了毯子，当雷木斯把茶端过来的时候说道。“天呐，这里太冷了。”
“I’ll shut the window--”
“我去关窗户——”
“No, it’s ok. I’ll warm up.”
“不，没事。我会暖和起来的。”
Remus sat down with his tea, muttering; “Levio liber,” at his book, so that he could read it with his tea in one hand and an arm around Sirius, who leaned sleepily against his shoulder. Will it be like this? Remus wondered, after Hogwarts? Nights on the couch with no one bothering us.
雷木斯坐下，喝着茶，喃喃自语：“Levio liber，”对着他的书，这样他可以一只手拿着茶，一只手搂着天狼星，天狼星慵懒地靠在他的肩膀上。霍格沃茨之后会是这样吗？雷木斯想。沙发上的夜晚没有人打扰我们。
“What you reading?” Sirius asked, watching the heavy book levitating just above Remus’s lap.
“你在读什么？”天狼星问，看着那本沉重的书在雷木斯的膝盖上方漂浮。
“Oh, something I found on legilimency.”
“哦，是我找到的一本关于读心术的书。”
“Eh?” Sirius raised his head, a small frown forming. “Why?”
“嗯？”天狼星抬起头，露出了一丝小小的皱眉。“为什么？”
“Just interested.” Remus replied. “Wanted to read something outside of my NEWT core texts, and I thought - mind reading; cool. Who wouldn't want to?”
“只是感兴趣。”雷木斯回答道。“想读点儿NEWTs核心课程之外的东西，我觉得——读心术；很酷。谁不想呢？”
“I think it ought to be illegal.” Sirius said, suddenly prickly, though Remus didn’t know why. “It’s an invasion of privacy - practically a dark art.”
“我觉得这应该是非法的。”天狼星突然变得尖刻，尽管雷木斯不明白原因。“这是一种隐私侵犯——实际上是一种黑暗艺术。”
“Well, I’m only reading about it.” Remus said, carefully.
“嗯，我只是读一读这方面的书。”雷木斯小心地说道。
“I didn’t mean you would…” Sirius sighed, settling back down. Seeing it had upset Sirius, Remus allowed the book to set itself down, and stroked his hair, gently, because he always liked it, even if he pretended he didn’t. He felt Sirius relax against him again, before saying in an odd voice; “Sorry, I didn’t mean to snap. It’s just that my mother can do it. She’s a legilimens.”
“我不是说你会……”天狼星叹了口气，重新靠回去。看到这让天狼星不高兴，雷木斯让书自己落下，温柔地抚摸他的头发，因为他总是喜欢这样，即使他假装不喜欢。他感觉到天狼星再次放松在他身边，然后用一种奇怪的声音说道：“对不起，我不是想发火。只是我妈妈能做到这一点。她是个读心术师。”
“Oh…”
“哦……”
“So she could find out what we were up to - where our ‘loyalties lay’.”
“所以她可以知道我们在干什么——我们‘忠诚的所在’。”
“I’m sorry, Padfoot.” Remus squeezed his arm. That protective feeling came back, cold and sweet like adrenaline.
“对不起，Padfoot。”雷木斯握了握他的手臂。那种保护的感觉再次涌上心头，冷冰冰的，如同肾上腺素般甜蜜。
“Don’t be. I’m well shot of her, mad old bat. And I’d sort of learnt to deflect it, by the end. Made her so angry.” He let out a hollow chuckle.
“别这样。我早就摆脱了她，那个疯老太婆。到最后我已经学会了如何抵挡她了。让她非常生气。”他发出了一声空洞的笑声。
“You learnt occlumency?” Remus raised his eyebrows, “That's incredible!”
“你学会了心灵防御术？”雷木斯挑了挑眉，“这太厉害了！”
“Not exactly…” Sirius frowned again, but this time Remus knew it was because he was thinking very hard. He sat up, pulling away from Remus, and leaned over to set his tea down on the coffee table,
“不是完全那样……”天狼星再次皱起了眉头，但这次雷木斯知道是因为他在认真思考。他坐起身，离开雷木斯，倾身把茶放在咖啡桌上，
“It’s more like... you just learn not to think the things she wants you to think. It got worse when we were teenagers, you know, she was worried about ‘impure thoughts’. Toujours pur. So I’d just… distract her by thinking something else.”
“更像是……你只是学会不去想她想让你想的东西。我们青少年时期情况更糟，你知道的，她担心‘不纯洁的思想’。Toujours pur。所以我只是……通过想其他东西来分散她的注意力。”
“So she wouldn’t find out about Mary?” Remus asked, “Or the other muggle born girls?”
“所以她不会发现Mary的事？”雷木斯问，“或者其他麻瓜出生的女孩？”
“Um.” Sirius fidgeted with his hands, looking away, “Yeah, that. And… well, whatever, anything I didn’t want her to know. Trouble is, you end up confusing yourself. It's like tying your own thoughts up in knots. Hard to unpick... ‘fraid you used to get the raw end of that, a bit.”
“嗯。”天狼星扭动着手，移开视线，“是的，就是那个。还有……无论如何，任何我不想让她知道的事。麻烦的是，你最终会让自己迷糊。就像把自己的思想打成死结一样。很难解开……恐怕你曾经也受到过一点伤害。”
He met Remus’s eyes then, and he looked so ashamed and sorry, that Remus realised exactly what he meant. Was that why it had all been so difficult, in the beginning? Why Sirius had been so insistent on pretending nothing was going on between them?
然后他看向雷木斯的眼睛，他看起来非常羞愧和抱歉，让雷木斯明白了他的意思。这就是一开始一切都那么困难的原因吗？为什么天狼星如此坚持装作他们之间什么都没发生？
Remus put down his own tea and hugged Sirius tightly. He hated her. He hated the war, and he hated himself for not being able to say the right words. This was one of those times it might have really mattered, too.
雷木斯放下自己的茶，紧紧拥抱天狼星。他恨她。他恨战争，他恨自己没有说出正确的话。这也是可能真的很重要的时刻之一。
“Sirius...” he said, heart pounding as they released each other finally, “I’m so…”
“天狼星……”他说，心跳加速，当他们终于放开彼此时，“我太……”
“It's fine, Moony. It’s over now.” Sirius smiled at him bravely.
“没关系，Moony。现在一切都结束了。”天狼星勇敢地对他微笑。
“I know, but I want you to know, I want to tell you… I really really… I...”
“我知道，但我想让你知道，我想告诉你……我真的真的……我……”
“I know.” Sirius kissed him gently, wrapping his arms around him once more and squeezing him back. “Me too.”
“我知道。”天狼星温柔地吻了他一次，再次把他抱在怀里，紧紧地回抱着他。“我也是。”

* * *

Well we got no choice

All the girls and boys

Makin' all that noise

'Cause they found new toys

Well we can't salute ya can't find a flag

If that don't suit ya that's a drag.

 

Friday 5th May 1978


 “I failed.” Marlene whispered as they left the exam hall, wringing her hands together. “我失败了。”玛琳离开考试厅时低声说，双手搓在一起。
“You did not.” Mary slung her arm around her friend’s shoulder. “你没有。”玛丽搂住了她朋友的肩膀。
“At least it’s over.” Marlene sighed. “至少考试结束了。”玛琳叹了口气。
“Don’t, you’re making me all emotional.” Mary laughed. “How about you, Lupin?” She reached out to link her arm with his as the three of them walked down the corridor towards the grounds. “别这样，你让我也变得很情绪化。”玛丽笑道，“你怎么样，Lupin？”她伸出手臂与他搭在一起，三人沿着走廊走向操场。
“Am I emotional?” He asked, raising an eyebrow. “我很情绪化吗？”他扬起一眉毛问道。
“How do you think you did ?” Mary clarified, “I know you’re stoic.” “你觉得你表现怎么样？”玛丽澄清道，“我知道你很冷静。”
“Ok, I think. The question on basilisks threw me a bit, but I think I managed.” “嗯，我觉得还不错。关于蛇怪的问题有点让我困惑，但我想我应付得了。”
“Stoic and modest, my dream man.” Mary sighed. “冷静又谦虚，我的梦中情人。”玛丽叹了口气。
“I have to go,” Marlene said, as they turned a corner, “Sorry, I said I’d meet--” “我得走了，”玛琳说，当他们转过一个拐角时，“抱歉，我说过我会见——”
“Yasmin.” Mary finished for her, a bit cattily. She let Marlene out from under her arm. “Off you, pop, then.” “Yasmin。”玛丽有些尖刻地替她完成了句子。她让玛琳从她的怀抱中出来。“走吧，去吧。”
“Moody cow,” Marlene poked her tongue out, “You know I love you forever.” “情绪化的家伙，”玛琳吐了吐舌头，“你知道我永远爱你。”
“Back at you,” Mary scrunched up her nose. “See you at dinner.” “回敬你，”玛丽皱了皱鼻子。“晚餐见。”
“Bye, Marlene,” Remus said, politely. They were friends again, but it still felt weird. “再见，玛琳，”雷木斯礼貌地说道。他们又成了朋友，但仍然感觉很奇怪。
“See you!” “再见！”
Mary kept her grip on Remus’s arm, and looked up at him, “You’re not about to abandon me for a raven-haired quidditch player too, are you?” She asked, “Honestly, it’s like a club you’re all in.” 玛丽握住雷木斯的手臂，抬头看着他，“你也不会因为一个黑发的魁地奇选手而抛弃我吧？”她问道，“老实说，你们就像一个俱乐部一样。”
“Oh shut up,” he laughed, “And no. He’s got his Muggle Studies exam.” “闭嘴，”他笑道，“没有。他有他的麻瓜研究考试。”
“So you’re mine?! “那你是我的？！”
“All yours.” He nodded. She grinned and kissed his cheek. They kept walking, heading for the sunshine. “全都是你的。”他点头说道。她咧嘴一笑，亲吻了他的脸颊。他们继续走，朝阳光走去。
“I think I mucked up the bit on cockatrices,” Mary mused, “I couldn’t ever take them seriously enough to study - I mean for god’s sake, half-dragon, half-chicken?! Fucking nonsense. Still, I reckon I passed ok.” “我觉得我把cockatrices那部分搞砸了，”玛丽沉思道，“我从来没法认真学习它们——我的天啊，半龙半鸡？！真是胡说八道。尽管如此，我觉得我考得还不错。”
“I’m sure you did,” Remus said, “You worked hard - we all did.” “我相信你做得很好，”雷木斯说道，“你努力了——我们都努力了。”
“Worked harder when Ferox was teaching,” Mary grinned. “当Ferox在教课时工作得更努力，”玛丽咧嘴一笑道。
“God, me too,” Remus replied casually, causing Mary to burst into giggles. He liked shocking her; it was hard to do, most of the time. Mind you, she took everything in her stride. “天呐，我也是，”雷木斯随意地回答道，玛丽笑得前仰后合。他喜欢让她吃惊；大多数时候这很难做到。值得一提的是，她总是泰然自若。 
No sooner had they turned the last corner than she stopped in her tracks, a look of distaste crossing her face. “他们刚转过最后一个拐角，她立刻停住了，脸上露出厌恶的表情。
“Ugh, it’s Rotherhide.” “呃，是Rotherhide。”
Remus followed her line of vision. They were just at the final archway which led out into the grounds. It was a sunny day, if a little bit cool, and after a rainy start to the year every student not in lessons or exams was out enjoying the weather. Roman Rotherhide, the seventh year Ravenclaw heartthrob, was loitering with a few of his friends just ahead. He and Mary and been on and off for years, and judging by the look on her face, they were most definitely ‘off’ now. 雷木斯跟着她的视线。他们正站在通向操场的最后一个拱门下。天气晴朗，虽然有点凉，经过年初的雨季后，所有没有上课或考试的学生都在享受天气。七年级的Ravenclaw帅哥Roman Rotherhide正在前面和几个朋友徘徊。他和玛丽多年来一直断断续续地交往，按她脸上的表情来看，他们现在绝对是“断了”。
“What’s he done?” Remus asked. “他做了什么？”雷木斯问道。
“Nothing, he just annoys me.” She said. “Some days all of them do.” “没什么，他只是让我讨厌。”她说道。“有时候他们全都这样。”
“Boys?” “男孩们？”
“Wizards.” “巫师们。”
“Fair enough. Come on, let’s just keep walking.” “说得好。来吧，我们继续走。”
“Snog me!” Mary turned to him, “Go on, it’ll drive him mad. Quick, he’s looking!” “亲吻我！”玛丽转向他说，“去吧，这会让他疯掉的。快点，他在看着呢！”
“Mary!” Remus laughed, veering away from her, “No!” “玛丽！”雷木斯笑着说，躲开她，“不！”
“Please!” “拜托！”
“No!” “不！”
“Ugh, some friend you are,” she grumbled. “Come on, then…” “唉，你真是个朋友，”她抱怨道。“那就这样吧……”
“You’re mental.” Remus shook his head, following her. He sighed and slipped his hand in hers. “There, will that do?” “你真是疯了。”雷木斯摇了摇头，跟着她。他叹了口气，把手伸进她的手里。“这样可以吗？”
“My hero,” she grinned up at him, squeezing his hand back, swinging it back and forth so that Roman was sure to notice. “我的英雄，”她对他咧嘴一笑，紧握他的手来回摆动，让Roman肯定注意到。
They settled underneath a large beech tree near the lake. Remus lay on his back with his arms behind his head, watching the boughs creak slowly above, while Mary began to file and paint her fingernails. 他们在湖边的一棵大山毛榉树下安顿下来。雷木斯仰面躺着，双臂枕在脑后，看着上方树枝慢慢摇晃，而玛丽开始修剪和涂抹她的指甲。
Sirius had made Remus promise not to start revising for anything else once his Care of Magical Creatures exam was finished, and for once Remus didn’t argue. He was right in the sweet spot between full moons where he felt the most healthy and human - plus, lessons were finished forever, which meant he had no homework, and everyone was in a good mood lately - why lock himself away in the library? 天狼星让雷木斯答应在他的神奇生物护理考试结束后不要开始复习其他科目，而这次雷木斯没有争论。他正处于满月之间的最佳时机，这时候他感觉最健康和最像人类——而且，课程永远结束了，这意味着他没有作业，最近每个人的心
情都很好——为什么要把自己锁在图书馆里呢？
“God, I can’t wait for it all to be over.” Mary said, “I’ll miss all of you, obviously, but I’m done with school.” “天呐，我等不及一切都结束了。”玛丽说道，“我会想念你们所有人，但我对学校已经厌倦了。”
“Do you know what you’re doing after?” Remus asked, closing his eyes and staring at the bright red veins of his eyelids. “你知道你毕业后要做什么吗？”雷木斯问道，闭上眼睛，盯着眼睑上的鲜红血管。
“Mum wants me to do a typing course, get a ‘proper job’.” “妈妈希望我去学打字课程，找份‘正经工作’。”
“You could if you wanted,” Remus mused, “You could charm a typewriter, easy.” “如果你愿意的话，你可以的，”雷木斯沉思道，“你可以轻松地给打字机施个咒语。”
“Ha, I ought to. That’d show mum. Anyway, I’ll probably get myself up the duff and have to get married by the time I’m nineteen, like she did. Then it’s cooking, laundry and church for the rest of my life.” “哈哈，我应该这样做。那会让妈妈刮目相看。无论如何，我可能会像她一样在十九岁时怀孕结婚。然后余生就是做饭、洗衣和上教堂。”
“What a cheerful thought.” Remus snorted. “真是个让人开心的想法。”雷木斯哼了一声。
“Lily said you lot were going to help Dumbledore.” Mary said, suddenly. “莉莉说你们要去帮助邓布利多。”玛丽突然说道。
Remus opened his eyes and turned his head, squinting up at her. She was wearing a pair of white framed cat-eye sunglasses, so he couldn’t see her eyes, but her mouth was serious, no longer chirpy. 雷木斯睁开眼睛，转过头，眯着眼睛看着她。她戴着一副白色框架的猫眼太阳镜，所以他看不到她的眼睛，但她的嘴巴很严肃，不再欢快。
“That’s right.” He said. “没错。”他说道。
“So… what? You’re all going finish school and go and save the world?” “所以……怎么了？你们都要完成学业然后去拯救世界？”
“Well.” Remus said, steadily, “We’ll start by winning the war, anyway.” “嗯。”雷木斯稳重地说道，“我们会先从赢得战争开始。”
“Remus, please don’t.” “雷木斯，拜托不要。”
He sat up, then, annoyed. “Why are you bringing this up?” 他坐起身来，显得有些恼火。“你为什么提这个？”
“Because Lily’s lost all sense of reason since she’s been with Potter. Potter and Black think they’re untouchable anyway and Peter can’t think for himself. You’re the sensible one.” “因为莉莉自从和波特在一起后失去了理智。波特和布莱克认为他们是不可侵犯的，彼得也不能自己思考。你是那个理智的人。”
“No I’m not.” “我不是。”
“I just… I think about the attacks at Christmas. Marlene’s brother. The way people are looking at each other these days. I’m frightened. It’s going to get worse.” “我只是……我考虑到圣诞节的袭击。玛琳的哥哥。人们现在互相看待的方式。我感到害怕。这会变得更糟。”
“Yes, it is.” He said, his voice hard. “Unless someone stops it.” “是的，确实如此。”他说，声音变得坚硬。“除非有人阻止它。”
“But why does it have to be you? Any of you?! Let Dumbledore fight, if he’s so powerful as everyone says. Why does he need kids to help him?” “但为什么非得是你们？任何一个人？！如果邓布利多像大家说的那样强大，那就让他自己去战斗吧。为什么他需要孩子们来帮助他？”
“We’re not kids. Mary, this isn’t about Dumbledore, or even Voldemort, it’s… it’s about the whole wizarding world. The community; making it a place where we can all--” “我们不是孩子，玛丽，这不仅仅是关于邓布利多，甚至不是伏地魔的问题，这是……这是关于整个魔法世界。社区；让它成为一个我们都可以——”
“Remus, you’re never going to be one of them.” “雷木斯，你永远不会成为他们中的一员。”
“Excuse me?” “什么？”
“Look. Do you know why my family ended up in the UK? My grandad fought in the war. He got medals and all that crap, ‘the gratitude of the empire’. They said they couldn’t have beat Hitler without the soldiers of the commonwealth. You want to know what happened to that gratitude when the war was over? When he moved here for a better life? Do you know what they called him?” She shook her head angrily. “Things don’t change because of stupid heroics. People don’t change. Even if we win the war, even if that creepy Dark Lord bloke is imprisoned, or defeated, or whatever. Potter and Black might get the victory parades, but no one’s going to… you’re going to be an outsider forever. Look at the way Danny’s been treated.” “看。你知道为什么我的家族会来到英国吗？我祖父在战争中作战。他获得了奖章和那些破事，‘帝国的感激’。他们说没有英联邦的士兵，他们无法击败希特勒。你想知道战争结束后的感激之情去了哪里吗？当他为了更好的生活搬到这里时？你知道他们怎么称呼他吗？”她愤怒地摇了摇头。“事情不会因为愚蠢的英雄行为而改变。人们不会改变。即使我们赢得战争，即使那个可怕的黑暗魔头被囚禁，或被击败，或其他什么。波特和布莱克可能会得到胜利游行，但没有人会……你将永远是个局外人。看看丹尼被对待的方式。”
“Mary.” Remus said, his tone very cold now. How had they even got into this? They never fought, “I’m not going to discuss this any further.” “玛丽。”雷木斯说道，语气非常冷漠。他们怎么会谈到这个呢？他们从来没有争吵过，“我不想再讨论这个了。”
“Don’t be angry with me.” She said, “I’m only trying to--” “别对我生气。”她说，“我只是想……”
“I know. But I’m not interested.” “我知道。但我不感兴趣。”
“...Remus, I--” “……雷木斯，我——”
“Why don’t we practice some charms? Exam’s in two days.” He stood up, pulling out his wand. Mary remained seated on the grass. She looked up at him, lowering her sunglasses, her brown eyes reproachful. She pursed her lips, then gave a little shrug. “我们来练习一些咒语吧？考试在两天后。”他站起来，抽出魔杖。玛丽仍然坐在草地上。她抬头看着他，低下太阳镜，棕色的眼睛带着责备。她抿了抿嘴唇，然后耸了耸肩。“好吧。让我先把指甲做完。”

 

Chapter 148: Seventh Year: The Final 

Arseholes, bastards, fucking cunts and pricks

Aerosole the bricks

A lawless brat from a council flat, oh oh

A little bit of this, and a little bit of that, oh oh.

Dirty tricks.

From the Mile End Road

To the matchstick Becontree

Pulling strokes and taking liberties...

 
Oh fuck. Oh buggering hell. How on earth had this happened?! How had he let it get this far?! Remus’s mouth was dry, his palms damp, and the less said about his insides the better. He wished he had Sirius nearby, or even James, to help him calm down. But no one could help him now. He was on his own.  
哦，操。哦，真是糟糕透顶。这到底是怎么发生的？！他怎么让事情发展到这一步？！雷木斯的嘴巴干燥，手掌湿润，更别提他的内心了。他希望身边有天狼星，甚至詹姆斯，来帮助他冷静下来。但现在没有人能帮他。他只能靠自己。
McGonagall turned to him,  
麦格转向他，  
“Ready, Mr Lupin?”  
“准备好了吗，Lupin先生？”
He swallowed, hard, and nodded. Time to bite the bullet.  
他艰难地咽了口唾沫，点了点头。是时候咬紧牙关了。
Fuck’s sake. This was all Christopher’s fault.  
真是的。这都是Christopher的错。
* * *
The whole mess had started four days earlier. The marauders were in the library studying for their very last exam; Arithmancy. Well, Peter didn’t take Arithmancy, but he was there anyway; ostensibly for moral support, but mostly to provide sustenance. He’d been a godsend to Remus in particular, making hourly trips down to the kitchens and back with cauldron cakes, pasties, bacon butties and jam tarts.  
一切的麻烦开始于四天前。四人组正在图书馆为他们的最后一场考试——算命术——做准备。嗯，彼得没有修算命术，但他还是在那里；名义上是为了提供精神支持，但主要是提供食物。他对雷木斯尤其是救星，往返厨房，带来了锅炉蛋糕、饼点、培根三明治和果酱挞。
“It’s half eleven,” Sirius yawned, “C’mon, I don’t think my brain can absorb any more knowledge tonight.”  
“现在十一点半了，”天狼星打了个哈欠，“来吧，我觉得我今晚的大脑再也无法吸收更多知识了。”
“I didn’t think your brain ever absorbed any---ow!” James winced as Sirius kicked him under the table.  
“我不觉得你的大脑曾经吸收过什么——哎！”詹姆斯因为天狼星踢了他一脚而皱了皱眉。
“C’mon,” he repeated, “It’ll be curfew soon, anyway.”  
“来吧，”他重复道，“反正很快就要熄灯了。”
“We’re with the head boy, I don’t think curfew matters.” Remus replied, scribbling as fast as his quill would let him.  
“我们和头头在一起，我觉得熄灯时间无所谓。”雷木斯回答道，一边尽快地写着。
But James had caught Sirius’s yawn. He removed his glasses and rubbed his eyes, leaning away from the desk.  
但詹姆斯注意到了天狼星的打哈欠。他摘下眼镜，揉了揉眼睛，靠在桌子上。
“Nah, Padfoot’s right - we’ve been here hours. Let’s call it quits and have a refresher session tomorrow?”  
“不，Padfoot说得对——我们已经在这里几个小时了。我们就此罢休，明天再来复习怎么样？”
Peter was looking at Remus hopefully, clearly bored out of his mind. Remus frowned at all of them.  
彼得期待地看着雷木斯，显然无聊至极。雷木斯对他们所有人皱了皱眉。
“You lot go, if you want, but I‘ll kick myself if I waste any time on this - it’s our last exam!”  
“你们要走的话可以，但如果我在这上面浪费时间，我会自责的——这是我们最后一场考试！”
“You’re hardly wasting time,” Sirius said, “You’ve been in the library so much this term they’re considering putting up a plaque in your honour.”  
“你几乎没有浪费时间，”天狼星说道，“你这学期在图书馆待得太多，他们正在考虑为你立个纪念牌。”
“It’s necessary.” Remus said, “I want to beat Snape.”  
“这是必要的。”雷木斯说道，“我想击败斯内普。”
“And you will.” Sirius soothed, “Come on, you’re getting black rings under your eyes.”  
“你会的。”天狼星安慰道，“来吧，你的眼睛下方有黑圈了。”
“Oh no,” Remus sighed, sarcastically, packing away his papers, “My roguish good looks, ruined…”  
“哦，不，”雷木斯讽刺地叹了口气，整理着他的文件，“我的魅力外表，被毁了……”
“Shut up, you handsome prick.” Sirius elbowed him lightly.  
“闭嘴，你这个帅气的混蛋。”天狼星轻轻地肘碰了他一下。
They gathered the rest of their books, cleaned up the crumbs as best they could, and headed for the library exit. There were still plenty of students studying, all in varying states of distress.  
他们收拾好剩下的书本，尽可能地清理了碎屑，朝图书馆的出口走去。还有很多学生在学习，都处于不同的焦虑状态。
“I can’t wait for it all to be over,” Peter whispered, “Imagine! No more homework, forever!”  
“我迫不及待地想让一切结束，”彼得低声说，“想象一下！再也没有作业了，永远！”
Remus must have looked stricken at this, because Sirius barked with laughter and threw an arm around his shoulders (that was a brotherly gesture, Remus decided, so he permitted it in public).  
雷木斯一定是露出了惊愕的表情，因为天狼星哈哈大笑着把手臂搭在他的肩膀上（这是兄弟般的举动，雷木斯决定，因此他允许了这在公开场合）。
“You’ll still have deadlines,” James mused, yawning again as they entered the dimly lit castle corridors. “If you want to do ministry work. Dad complains about them all the time.”  
“你仍然会有截止日期，”詹姆斯沉思道，进入昏暗的城堡走廊时又打了个哈欠。“如果你想做政府工作。爸爸总是抱怨这些。”
“Doubt I’ll ever be as important as your dad,” Peter replied, shoving his hands in his pockets.  
“我怀疑我会像你爸爸一样重要，”彼得回答道，把手插进了口袋里。
“How are the applications going, anyway?” James asked him.  
“申请进展怎么样？”詹姆斯问他。
“Oh. All right. Mum says my step-dad might be able to put in a good word… you know, in case I don’t hear back from anywhere.”  
“哦，还行。妈妈说我继父可能会帮我说几句话……你知道的，以防我没有收到任何回复。”
“It won’t be because of you, Wormy,” James said, “They’re making cuts everywhere - because of the war. Things are hard all over.”  
“这不是因为你，Wormy，”詹姆斯说道，“他们到处都在削减开支——因为战争。 everywhere都很艰难。”
“Not for quidditch players.” Peter muttered.  
“对于魁地奇运动员来说不是这样。”彼得低声说道。
Sirius shook his head disapprovingly, but said nothing.  
天狼星不赞同地摇了摇头，但什么也没说。
“I’m not going to be a quidditch player,” James said, lightly, “Not until the war’s won.”  
“我不会成为魁地奇运动员，”詹姆斯轻松地说道，“战争胜利之前不会。”
The unspoken thing here, Remus thought, was the fact that James didn’t actually need a job, war or no war, talent or no talent. It was the same for Sirius, who was so wealthy he never talked about money at all. Though he didn’t agree with the bitterness, Remus sympathised with Peter on this; the Pettigrews were firmly middle class, and while he would always have a comfortable enough life, he’d be expected to start making money as soon as possible. Whereas Remus, who was barely working class even on a good day--  
雷木斯认为，未说出口的事实是，詹姆斯实际上并不需要一份工作，不论战争与否，有无才华。天狼星也是如此，他非常富有，从不谈论金钱。尽管他不同意这种苦涩，雷木斯对彼得感到同情；佩蒂格鲁家族坚定地属于中产阶级，尽管他将永远过得舒适，但他们会期望他尽快开始赚钱。相比之下，雷木斯即使在好日
子里也几乎算不上工人阶级——
He was interrupted from his thoughts by an odd noise up ahead, and stopped in his tracks. The others stopped too.  
他被前方的奇怪声音打断了思绪，停下了脚步。其他人也停下了。  
“What’s wrong?” Sirius asked, “Forget something?”  
“怎么了？”天狼星问道，“忘了什么？”
Remus shook his head, listening. He whispered to his friends,  
雷木斯摇了摇头，倾听着。他对朋友们低声说道，  
“There’s someone around the corner.” He could hear them breathing, but they weren’t moving - neither coming nor going, which was extremely suspicious, given the time of night.  
“角落那边有个人。”他能听到他们的呼吸声，但他们没有动——既没有过来也没有离开，这在这个时间段非常可疑。  
“Filch?” James whispered.  
“费尔奇？”詹姆斯低声问道。  
Remus shook his head,  
雷木斯摇了摇头，  
“I think it’s…” he strode ahead, turning the corner, “Chris!”  
“我觉得是……”他大步走前，转过角落，“Chris！”
“Oh, hello… um… Remus?” Christopher smiled at him dazedly.  
“哦，嗨……嗯……雷木斯？”克里斯托弗迷茫地对他笑了笑。  
He wasn’t doing anything. He was just standing there, leaning against the wall, staring into space.  
他什么也没做，只是站在那里，靠着墙，盯着空中发呆。  
“Are you ok?”  
“你还好吗？”  
“Oh yes,” the younger boy nodded again, emphatically, “Very well thanks. Very good. Very fine indeed.”  
“哦，是的，”年轻的男孩再次点了点头，坚定地说，“非常好，谢谢。非常好。确实很好。”
“Is he… stoned?” Sirius was already at Remus’s side, and was surveying Chris with thinly disguised amusement.  
“他是……嗨了吗？”天狼星已经站在雷木斯身旁，带着微微掩饰的 amused，打量着克里斯托弗。  
“I don’t think so…” Remus frowned. He reached out and touched Chris’s arm, gently, speaking slowly, “Christopher? What are you doing? It’s almost curfew, are you on patrol?”  
“我不这样认为……”雷木斯皱了皱眉。他伸出手，轻轻地摸了摸克里斯托弗的手臂，缓慢地说道，“克里斯托弗？你在干什么？快熄灯了，你在巡逻吗？”  
“Patrol?” Christopher stared at him blankly, before blinking, then nodding again, grinning, “Yes! Yes, that must be it!”  
“巡逻？”克里斯托弗茫然地盯着他，然后眨了眨眼，再次点头，笑着说，“是的！是的，这一定是了！”
“He’s confounded.” James said. “Christopher? Has anyone cast a spell on you tonight? Or near you, and it backfired?”  
“他被迷惑了。”詹姆斯说。“克里斯托弗？今晚有人对你施了魔法吗？或者在你附近，魔法反弹了吗？”  
“Maybe he did it to himself,” Wormtail suggested. “I did that once, remember?”  
“也许他自己弄的，”蛭尾建议道。“我曾经也这样过，记得吗？”  
“No, Chris wouldn’t try to confound someone.” Remus shook his head. “Chris, who was the last person you saw?”  
“不，克里斯不会试图迷惑别人。”雷木斯摇了摇头。“克里斯，最后一个你看到的人是谁？”  
“Hm? Oh er… was it… you?”  
“嗯？哦，呃……是……你吗？”  
“No,” Remus put his hands on Christopher's shoulders, meeting his eyes and trying to hold his attention, “No, not me. Concentrate. Before I got here, what were you doing?”  
“不是，”雷木斯把手放在克里斯托弗的肩膀上，与他的眼睛对视，试图引起他的注意，“不是我。集中精神。在我到这里之前，你在做什么？”
“Was I patrolling?”  
“我在巡逻吗？”
“No, I mean… oh, come on, let’s go back to the tower, eh?” Remus kept his hand on Christopher's shoulder and began gently but firmly steering him up the corridor, throwing anxious looks at the others.  
“不，我是说……哦，算了，我们回到塔楼吧，嗯？”雷木斯保持着手在克里斯托弗的肩膀上，开始温柔而坚定地引导他走过走廊，一边焦急地看着其他人。  
“Should we tell someone?” Sirius asked James, “Or… I dunno, take him to Madam Pomfrey?”  
“我们应该告诉谁吗？”天狼星问詹姆斯，“或者……我不知道，带他去找Pomfrey夫人？”  
“I’m not ill!” Christopher piped up, chirpily.  
“我没生病！”克里斯托弗高声说道，显得很开心。
James ran his hands through his hair, shrugging.  
詹姆斯揉了揉头发，耸了耸肩。  
“I dunno. We’ll ask Lily, she’ll know what to do.”  
“我不知道。我们去问莉莉，她会知道该怎么做的。”
Lily did not know what to do. She stood with a hand on her hip and a skeptical look on her face, and asked him a few questions, but was as stumped as the rest of them. He sat before her, quite happily, in an armchair, smiling back up at her. He didn’t seem to mind the interrogation, and while he couldn’t give them any real information, he answered everything with cheerful, blank politeness. Giving up, Lily clicked her tongue.  
莉莉不知道该怎么办。她一手叉腰，脸上带着怀疑的表情，问了他几个问题，但和其他人一样困惑。他坐在她面前，十分开心，微笑着看向她。他似乎不介意被审问，虽然不能给他们提供任何有用的信息，但他用愉快、呆板的礼貌回答了所有问题。莉莉无奈地咂了咂嘴。
“I mean, he looks ok… and he doesn’t seem upset… Christopher? Did you get into a fight with someone? An argument?”  
“我的意思是，他看起来还好……而且他似乎也不沮丧……克里斯托弗？你和某人打架了？争吵了吗？”  
“I don’t think so.” Christopher said, thoughtfully, his voice thick and dreamy. He yawned. “I think I’ll go to bed, if that’s alright with you lot.”  
“我不这么认为。”克里斯托弗思索地说，声音浓重而梦幻。他打了个哈欠。“如果你们没意见的话，我想去睡觉了。”
Remus, James and Lily all looked at each other helplessly. Then Lily turned to James,  
雷木斯、詹姆斯和莉莉无奈地互相看了看。然后莉莉转向詹姆斯，  
“Take him up, will you? Just make sure he doesn’t get lost on the way.”  
“把他送上去，好吗？只要确保他在路上不会迷路。”
James nodded, happy to be able to take action, and slapped Christopher on the back,  
詹姆斯点了点头，乐意采取行动，拍了拍克里斯托弗的背，  
“C’mon then, mate, let’s get you to your dorm…”  
“来吧，伙计，我们带你回宿舍……”
Lily, Remus, Sirius and Peter watched them vanish up the staircase.  
莉莉、雷木斯、天狼星和彼得看着他们消失在楼梯上。
“Weird.” Lily said. “And no one else was around?”  
“真奇怪。”莉莉说。“没有其他人吗？”
“Not that I saw,” Remus said. “But god knows how long he was standing there.”  
“我没看到，”雷木斯说。“但天知道他在那里站了多久。”
“Well, he was on the rota for patrol this evening,” she said, pulling out her little leather-bound organiser to check. “I always tell the prefects to go round in pairs, though, so he shouldn’t have been alone. He’s usually so reliable. I’ll talk to him in the morning, maybe he’ll be a bit sharper then.”  
“嗯，他今晚在巡逻名单上，”她说，拿出她的小皮革记事本查看。“不过我总是告诉值日生要成对行动，所以他不应该是一个人。他通常很可靠。我会在早上跟他谈谈，也许他那时候会清醒一些。”
“Doesn’t look like he came to any harm,” Peter said, offhandedly, flicking through an old copy of Quidditch Weekly, “Maybe he was drunk, or stoned or whatever, and he’s just trying to cover his tracks.”  
“看起来他没有受伤，”彼得随口说，一边翻看一本旧版的《魁地奇周刊》，“也许他喝醉了，或者嗨了什么的，他只是试图掩盖他的踪
迹。”
Remus disagreed - it was too wildly out of character. But then, he hadn’t seen much of Chris, lately, they’d both been so busy. He remembered bumping into the younger boy in Hogsmeade a while ago - he’d been acting strangely then, too, but Remus had just assumed he was meeting someone and didn’t want Remus to know who. And if anyone respected other people's privacy, it was Remus.  
雷木斯不同意——这太不符合克里斯托弗的性格了。但最近他没怎么见过克里斯托弗，他们俩都很忙。他记得不久前在霍格斯梅德碰到过这个年轻男孩——那时他也表现得很奇怪，但雷木斯只是以为他在见某人，不想让雷木斯知道是谁。若有谁尊重他人隐私，那就是雷木斯了。
James returned, saying Chris had seemed fine once he was in his bedroom, and they didn’t talk about it much for the rest of the evening. Just one of those things. In a school full of adolescents learning to use magic, it wasn’t entirely out of the ordinary for accidents to happen.  
詹姆斯回来了，说克里斯托弗在他的卧室里看起来很好，接着他们在晚上的时候没再多谈这件事。只是这种事情。在一个充满青少年学习魔法的学校里，发生意外并不完全不寻常。
Talk soon turned to the upcoming Gryffindor vs. Slytherin quidditch match; the final match of the year, and the final game of James and Sirius’s school careers. Remus zoned out a bit, letting his three friends work themselves up about it. Secretly he couldn’t wait for it to be done with - as much as it made them all happy, and as much as he wanted Gryffindor to win, it wasn’t half boring to listen to all the time. He picked up his Arithmancy book and returned to his revision, settling into the comfiest armchair.  
谈话很快转向即将到来的格兰芬多对斯莱特林的魁地奇比赛；今年的最后一场比赛，也是詹姆斯和天狼星学校生涯的最后一场比赛。雷木斯有些走神，让他的三个朋友对此激动不已。实际上，他迫不及待地想结束这件事——尽管这让他们都很高兴，尽管他想让格兰芬多赢，但一直听着这些也实在无聊。他拿起他的算命书，继续复习，坐进了最舒适的扶手椅里。
“Moony, c’mon, bedtime.” Sirius woke him, half an hour later. Damn.  
“月亮狗，快起来，该睡觉了。”半小时后，天狼星叫醒了他。该死。
Remus blinked, blearily, looking down at his textbook. He’d barely got past the first paragraph before falling asleep, his quill still poised between his fingers.  
雷木斯迷迷糊糊地眨了眨眼，看着他的教科书。他才刚刚读完第一段就睡着了，羽毛笔还在他的手指间悬着。  
“Bollocks.” He muttered, closing the book and stretching.  
“狗屎。”他嘟囔道，合上书本，伸了个懒腰。
Sirius chuckled,  
天狼星笑了起来，  
“Told you that was enough for one day.”  
“告诉过你今天够了。”
Remus just yawned at him, getting up. The common room had cleared out almost completely, now, except for James and Lily, who were ‘saying goodnight’ on the couch. That usually took a while, so the other three marauders left them to it, climbing the stairs to bed.  
雷木斯只是对他打了个哈欠，起身。公共休息室几乎完全清空了，现在只剩下詹姆斯和莉莉在沙发上“说晚安”。这通常需要一些时间，所以其他三个同学就让他们自己待着，爬上楼去睡觉了。
* * *  
The next morning, Remus was awoken by Sirius - or rather, the absence of Sirius. He was just crawling out of bed, and trying to be sneaky about it.  
* * *
第二天早晨，雷木斯被天狼星——或者说，是天狼星的缺席吵醒了。他正爬出床，试图偷偷摸摸地做这件事。  
“Mmm, stay…” Remus reached for him sleepily, trying to pull him back. His hands ran over the skin of Sirius’s upper arms. Sirius had fantastic skin, it was so smooth, and unblemished everywhere except for the backs of his legs. He kept talking about wanting tattoos, a thought which horrified Remus.  
“嗯，留在这里……”雷木斯昏昏欲睡地伸手去抓他，试图把他拉回来。他的手在天狼星的上臂皮肤上滑过。天狼星的皮肤非常棒，光滑无瑕，除了腿背部外的地方。他一直谈论想要纹身，这个想法让雷木斯感到恐惧。  
“Sorry, Moony,” Sirius grinned, gently untangling himself, “Big game in two days, got to practice.”  
“对不起，月亮狗，”天狼星笑着，轻轻解开自己，“两天后有场重要比赛，得练习。”
“What time is it?”  
“现在几点了？”
“Just gone five.”  
“刚过五点。”
“Ugh.” Remus flopped back down on the bed, throwing the blankets over his head, “You’re all mental.”  
“呃。”雷木斯往床上倒回去，把被子扔在头上，“你们都疯了。”
“Yup.” Sirius laughed, “Go back to sleep, I’ll see you later.”  
“是的。”天狼星笑着，“继续睡吧，我待会儿见。”
He left carefully, closing the curtains behind him. Remus rolled into the warm hollow Sirius’s body had left behind, inhaled the scent on his pillow, and drifted back to sleep.  
他小心翼翼地离开，关上了帘子。雷木斯滚进了天狼星留下的温暖凹陷处，吸入枕头上的气息，重新进入梦乡。  
He woke up just in time to catch the last of breakfast, and then returned to the library where he met Lily for more Arithmancy study.  
他刚好醒来赶上了早餐的最后部分，然后回到图书馆，和莉莉一起进行更多的算命学习。  
“I’m so tired of numbers!” Lily groaned rubbing her eyes. They were a few hours in and it would be lunch soon.  
“我对数字厌倦了！”莉莉抱怨道，揉着她的眼睛。他们已经学习了几个小时了，很快就要到午餐时间了。
“I’m going to miss it,” Remus replied, “I like the charts, they’re relaxing.”  
“我会想念它的，”雷木斯回答道，“我喜欢那些图表，它们让人放松。”
“Well I’m just glad there’s nothing like this in potions.”  
“嗯，我很高兴在药剂学中没有这样的东西。”
“James said you were looking into a job in an apothecary?”  
“詹姆斯说你在考虑药剂师的工作吗？”
“Maybe,” Lily shrugged. “I’d like to do something like that. Maybe research for St Mungo’s. Slughorn offered to write recommendations for me. But things will be complicated for a while I think. James is optimistic, but…”  
“也许吧，”莉莉耸了耸肩。“我想做一些这样的事情。也许是为圣芒戈医院做研究。斯拉赫霍恩说愿意为我写推荐信。但是我觉得事情会有点复杂。詹姆斯很乐观，但……”
“Yeah.” Remus nodded. “We’ll just have to see.”  
“是的。”雷木斯点了点头。“我们只能看看。”
“Shall we go down for lunch?” She closed her book, brushing her hair over one shoulder, “The boys’ll be finished soon, we can meet them.”  
“我们去吃午餐吧？”她合上书本，把头发挽到一边，“他们很快就会结束，我们可以去找他们。”
Remus’s stomach growled, and he gave in.  
雷木斯的肚子咕咕叫了起来，他就此妥协了。
“Go on then.”  
“那我们走吧。”
Just as they were getting up to go, the library doors swung open, and Madam Pince screeched, “No running!”  
就在他们准备离开时，图书馆的门猛地打开，品斯夫人尖叫道，“不许跑！”
“Lily! Remus! I need your help!” Christopher came charging up to them so fast his legs hit their desk, banging all the books forward.  
“莉
莉！雷木斯！我需要你们的帮助！”克里斯托弗飞快地跑到他们面前，腿撞到了桌子，把所有书都碰到了前面。  
“What’s wrong?!” Lily asked, her emerald eyes wide.  
“怎么了？！”莉莉问，眼睛睁得大大的。
“I can’t explain, you just need to see…”  
“我没法解释，你们只需要看看……”
“See what?” Remus asked, re-ordering his book pile.  
“看什么？”雷木斯问，一边重新整理书堆。  
“I’ve… I’ve done something stupid. Please just come now?” Chris pleaded. His face was red and shiny from running, and while he was definitely looking more alert than he had the evening before, he was clearly genuinely upset by something. So they went.  
“我……我做了件愚蠢的事。请你们现在过来好吗？”克里斯托弗恳求道。他的脸因跑步而红扑扑的，尽管他现在比昨天晚上看起来清醒多了，但显然还是对某件事感到非常沮丧。于是他们就去了。  
He led them to the Charms corridor, and the whole way there kept babbling about how it had been an accident, and how he hadn’t meant it to happen. Lily kept trying to get some sense out of him, but he wouldn’t give them so much as a hint.  
他把他们带到咒语走廊，一路上不停地喋喋不休地说这是一场意外，他并不想让事情发生。莉莉不断尝试从他口中得到一些线索，但他什么都不肯透露。  
Finally, he stood before the closed Charms classroom door. Professor Flitwick really ought to start locking it, Remus thought to himself, as Christopher faced them, pale and trembling. He fidgeted with the sleeves of his robes, looking down,  
最后，他站在了关闭的咒语教室门前。弗利维教授真的应该开始锁门了，雷木斯心想，克里斯托弗面向他们，脸色苍白，身体发抖。他不停摆弄着袍子的袖口，低着头，
“Ok… please don’t panic… it was an accident…”  
“好吧……请不要慌张……这是一次意外……”
“Christopher, just show us, will you?!” Snapped Lily, tapping her foot on the flagstone floor.  
“克里斯托弗，快给我们看看，好吗？！”莉莉厉声说道，脚在石板地上跺了跺。
Christopher jumped at her authoritative tone, usually reserved for students who were misbehaving, but he took a deep breath and pushed the door open, ushering them in and slamming it shut behind them.  
克里斯托弗被她权威的语气吓了一跳，这通常是用来训斥不守规矩的学生的，但他深呼吸了一下，推开了门，迎他们进去，然后把门猛地关上。
“What on earth…” Lily breathed, when they saw it.  
“这到底是什么……”莉莉惊呼道，当他们看到那一幕时。
What stood before them was an enormous, quivering, glistening blue jelly. It was easily the size of Flitwick’s desk, and just stood there in the middle of the classroom, translucent and wobbling. Remus stifled a laugh. In seven years at Hogwarts this was definitely one of the most ridiculous things he’s ever seen.  
眼前是一团巨大的、颤抖的、闪闪发光的蓝色果冻。它的大小足以与弗利维教授的桌子相匹敌，就那样在教室的中央静静地立着，透明而摇晃。雷木斯忍住了笑。在霍格沃茨的七年里，这绝对是他见过的最荒谬的事情之一。  
Christopher hung his head,  
克里斯托弗垂下了头，
“He attacked me, it was self defence!”  
“他攻击了我，这是自卫！”
Remus stopped laughing and looked again,  
雷木斯停止了笑声，再次看向那团果冻，  
“That’s a person ?! Chris! What the fuck?!”  
“那是一个人？克里斯托弗！这是什么鬼？！”
“Remus, language,” Lily elbowed him. “Christopher, who is that?”  
“雷木斯，注意你的语言，”莉莉肘击了他一下。“克里斯托弗，那是谁？”
“It’s Roy. Guilderoy.”  
“是罗伊·吉尔德罗伊。”
“Lockhart??”  
“洛克哈特？！”
“Am I going to get in trouble?” Chris blinked at them both, his brown eyes huge and frightened.  
“我会惹上麻烦吗？”克里斯托弗眨着眼睛，看着他们，眼中充满了惊恐。
“What did you… how did you?!” Lily gaped.  
“你……你怎么做的？！”莉莉惊愕地问道。
“It was a jelly legs jinx. I just expanded on it a bit - Remus taught me!”  
“这是个果冻腿的咒语。我只是稍微扩展了一下——雷木斯教我的！”
Lily glared at Remus, who held his hands up,  
莉莉瞪了雷木斯一眼，雷木斯举起了双手，  
“James taught me ! And it never had that result.”  
“是詹姆斯教我的！结果从未如此。”
“But why did you do it, Chris?” Lily asked, still staring.  
“那你为什么要这样做，克里斯托弗？”莉莉问道，依旧盯着他。
“He was going to confound me again!”  
“他打算再次迷惑我！”
“Wait, what? It was Lockhart?”  
“等等，什么？是洛克哈特？”
Christopher nodded, shrinking from Lily’s temper. He was embarrassed, Remus could tell. He looked at his feet.  
克里斯托弗点了点头，畏缩着接受莉莉的怒火。他显得很尴尬，雷木斯能看出来。他看着自己的脚。
“He did it the other day, but it backfired, I think I tried to dodge it. Maybe he's done it before, I dunno.”  
“他前几天对我施过这个咒语，但失败了。我想我试图躲开了。也许他以前也这样做过，我不清楚。”
“But why?”
“He was… he was worried I was going to tell…”
“Tell what?!”
“He was… we… he…”
“Christopher, for goodness sake!” Lily folded her arms angrily. Remus felt a stab of sympathy as Chris’s cheeks turned a deeper shade of red. “克里斯托弗，天哪！”莉莉生气地抱住双臂。雷穆斯看到克里斯的脸颊变得更加红润，心中感到一丝同情。
“Look, Lily, it doesn’t matter now, does It?” He said, turning to her to try and shift focus away from Christopher. “We ought to get Lockhart looked at, first…” “看，莉莉，现在这没什么关系，对吧？”他转向她，试图将注意力从克里斯身上移开。“我们应该先让洛克哈特看病……”
He wasn’t sure how he managed it, but in the end he convinced Lily to go and get Madam Pomfrey, while he and Christopher waited with the jellified Lockhart. 他不确定自己是怎么做到的，但最终他说服了莉莉去找庞弗雷夫人，而他和克里斯则和被果冻化的洛克哈特等在一起。
Once she’d gone, Christopher seemed to become even more anxious, “我会被开除的！”
“No, you’re not,” Remus leaned against the wall casually, pulling out his cigarette case. He offered one to Chris, who shook his head, fidgeting and worrying the cuffs of his sleeves. “James and Sirius have done worse than this.” “不，你不会的，”雷穆斯随意地靠在墙上，拿出香烟盒。他递给克里斯一支，克里斯摇了摇头，坐立不安地担心着袖口。“詹姆斯和天狼星做过比这更糟糕的事。”
“I’ve never even had a detention before!” “我以前从未被罚过！”
“Seriously?!” Remus raised his eyebrows as he lit his fag, “Well it's not that bad. You’ll survive. So… do you want to tell me what's been going on?” “真的？！”雷穆斯扬起眉毛点燃香烟，“嗯，这没那么糟糕。你会熬过去的。那么……你想告诉我发生了什么事吗？”
Christopher looked at him, his cheeks darkening again. 克里斯看着他，脸颊再次变暗。
“It was just… we just…” “只是……我们只是……”
“I’m guessing this is who you were meeting in Hogsmeade that time?” Remus prompted, trying to make it easier. “我猜这是你那次在霍格斯梅德见的人？”雷穆斯引导道，试图让事情变得简单些。
Chris looked at his feet again and nodded. 克里斯再次看向自己的脚，点了点头。
“Ok,” Remus exhaled smoke. He was surprised, obviously, and more than intrigued, but he had to try not to show it if he was going to get any more out if Chris. “So, you met up a few times?” Another nod, “And then…” Remus tried to piece it together, “Something went wrong? You had a fight?” “好的，”雷穆斯吐出烟雾。他显然感到惊讶，并且非常感兴趣，但他必须努力不让它表现出来，以便从克里斯那里得到更多的情况。“那么，你们见过几次面？”再点一次头，“然后……”雷穆斯试图将事情拼凑起来，“出了什么问题？你们吵架了吗？”
“Sort of, I… um…” “有点，我……嗯……”
God, this was excruciating. 天哪，这真是折磨人。
“Look, Chris, I don’t care, ok? He’s a prat who had it coming to him either way, and if you and he… well it doesn't matter, does it?” “听着，克里斯，我不在乎，好吗？他本来就应该得到这种下场，如果你和他……嗯，这无所谓，对吧？”
“I don’t want you to think I’m stupid, or… or naive or something. I didn’t even fancy him that much, I swear, it was just… just kissing, and I just... you know, he showed an interest, and I thought - well, this might be my only chance.” “我不想让你觉得我很傻，或者……或者天真什么的。我其实并没有那么喜欢他，我发誓，只是……只是接吻，而且我只是……你知道，他表现出了兴趣，我想——好吧，这可能是我唯一的机会。”
“Oh…” Remus’s heart went out to him. He touched his shoulder, gripping it in what he hoped was a comforting gesture. “Of course it's not your only chance. People don’t get just one chance…” “哦……”雷穆斯对他心生怜悯。他拍了拍他的肩膀，希望这是一个安慰的姿态。“当然这不是你唯一的机会。人们不会只有一次机会……”
“Well, whatever.” Chris said, looking at the space just over Remus’s shoulder, but deliberately not at Remus. “I suppose it has a lot to do with luck. Anyway, he was a prick. Turned out all he really wanted was to find out about the prank thing. He thought you and I were… he thought I could give him inside information.” “好吧，随便。”克里斯说，目光瞄准雷穆斯肩膀上方的空地，但故意没有看向雷穆斯。“我想这和运气有很大关系。总之，他是个混蛋。结果他真正想要的只是了解恶作剧的事。他以为你和我……他以为我能给他内部信息。”
“Well you could,” Remus replied, “You did half the working out with me, you know more than Sirius knows.” “嗯，你是可以的，”雷穆斯回答，“你和我一起做了工作的一半，你知道的比天狼星知道的多。”
“I didn’t,” Chris said, “I didn’t tell him anything.” “我没有，”克里斯说，“我什么也没告诉他。”
“Good. Knew you wouldn’t.” “很好。我知道你不会的。”
Chris smiled at that, and met Remus’s eye properly for the first time. 克里斯对此露出了微笑，第一次正视雷穆斯的眼睛。
“I told him to keep his nose out. He got annoyed and called me something horrible. Then I got angry, and I told him I was going to tell everyone what we’d been up to, and he must have panicked.” “我告诉他别管闲事。他生气了，骂了我很难听的话。然后我也生气了，我告诉他我要告诉大家我们在干什么，他一定是慌了。”
Chris sighed heavily. “I wouldn't have said anything, I swear. I wouldn’t be that nasty. I was angry, that's all.” 克里斯重重地叹了口气。“我不会说任何话的，我发誓。我不会那么恶毒的。我只是生气，仅此而已。”
“I know mate,” Remus reassured him. “So he tried to confound you so you wouldn’t tell anyone?” “我知道，伙计，”雷穆斯安慰他说。“所以他试图让你迷惑，以便你不会告诉任何人？”
Chris nodded. 克里斯点了点头。
“All I can think is that I must have tried to deflect it somehow, which weakened it. Probably why I was acting so strangely yesterday.” “我能想到的就是我一定以某种方式试图抵挡它，这削弱了它。可能这就是为什么我昨天表现得那么怪异。”
“And this…” Remus gestured at the Lockhart-jelly. “And this…”雷穆斯指了指洛克哈特果冻。
“When I woke up this morning a bit more if my memory had come back. I realised what he’d done and came to confront him. I… er… I lost my temper a bit.” “当我今天早上醒来时，我的记忆多了一点。我意识到他做了什么，于是去 confront him。我……呃……我有点失控了。”
“Well.” Remus snubbed out his cigarette, “I’m not going to have a go at you for that.” “好吧。”雷穆斯熄灭了香烟，“我不会因此责备你的。”
Lily was another matter. She returned with Madam Pomfrey and Professor McGonagall. By then, Remus had already decided what he was going to do. 莉莉就另当别论了。她带着庞弗雷夫人和麦格教授回来了。到那时，雷穆斯已经决定了他要做什么。
“Will one of you boys please explain what happened here?” Their head of year said, her eyes silvery and sharp. Remus was slightly taller than her now, but somehow McGonagall always seemed larger than life, especially when she was about to tell you off. “你们中的一个男孩能不能解释一下这里发生了什么？”他们的年级主任说道，她的眼神既锐利又银白。雷穆斯现在比她稍微高一点，但麦格教授总是显得格外高大，尤其是当她准备训斥你时。
“No idea.” Remus said, promptly, ignoring Lily’s look of horror
. “不清楚。”雷穆斯迅速说道，无视莉莉震惊的表情。
“Tell her what happened,” Lily demanded, “Or I will.” “告诉她发生了什么，”莉莉要求道，“否则我就告诉她。”
“Shall I, Remus?” McGonagall asked sharply. “我来告诉她吗，雷穆斯？”麦格教授严厉地问道。
“Yes, please, Professor.” Remus replied. “是的，请告诉她，教授。”雷穆斯回答道。
McGonagall’s stern gaze swept over Christopher, who was still looking rather uncomfortable. “I’m sorry, Professor,” Chris said. “麦格教授的严厉目光扫过仍显得相当不自在的克里斯。“对不起，教授，”克里斯说。
McGonagall said nothing for a moment, studying Chris with a searching gaze. Then she turned back to Remus. “Thank you, Mr. Lupin. Now, if you three boys would kindly wait outside while we speak to Miss Evans, I would be most appreciative.” 麦格教授沉默了一会儿，用审视的目光打量着克里斯。然后她转回看向雷穆斯。“谢谢你，卢平先生。现在，如果你们三个男孩能在外面等着，我们和伊万斯小姐谈谈，我将非常感激。”
Remus nodded, and he and Christopher headed for the door. 雷穆斯点了点头，他和克里斯走向门口。
As they passed Lily, Remus said quietly, “Don’t let her take it too hard. She’ll understand in the end.” 当他们经过莉莉时，雷穆斯轻声说道：“别让她太在意。她最终会理解的。”
Lily glanced at him, but didn’t say anything. 莉莉看了看他，但什么也没说。

 

Chapter 149: Seventh Year: Legacy - Part OneAnd as we wind on down the road,

Our shadows taller than our souls...

“You could nick it, bet it wouldn’t be hard.” Sirius said, standing beside Remus in front of the trophy case. “Just vanish the glass for a second.” “你可以偷走它，打赌不会很难。”天狼星说道，站在雷穆斯身旁，面前是奖杯柜。“只需瞬间消失掉玻璃就行。”
“Professor Flitwick would notice.” Remus raised an eyebrow, distracted now by Sirius’s ghostly reflection in the glass. “Or one of the Ravenclaws.” “弗立维克教授会注意到的。”雷穆斯扬起眉毛，现在被天狼星在玻璃中的幽灵般的倒影分散了注意力。“或者某个拉文克劳的学生。”
“Nah,” the other boy caught his eye and grinned at him, teeth pearly white, “No one’ll miss it.” “不，”另一个男孩对他眨了眨眼，露出一口雪白的牙齿，“没人会注意到的。”
“I think,” Remus replied, licking his lips and returning his gaze to the little gold figure on top of the trophy, “Lyall would have preferred it to stay put. This way there’s always a piece of him at Hogwarts.” “我认为，”雷穆斯回答道，舔了舔嘴唇，重新将目光投向奖杯上的小金人，“莱尔会更愿意它保持原样。这样霍格沃茨就永远有他的一个小小的存在。”
“Ahh, have you gone all soppy because it’s the last week?” Sirius teased him. Remus smiled, unperturbed, “Ahh，你是不是因为这是最后一周而变得有些感伤了？”天狼星调侃道。雷穆斯微笑着，毫不在意，
“Yeah, a bit.” “是的，有一点。”
Sirius chuckled, and leaned towards him confidentially, “Me too.” 天狼星笑了笑，靠近他，低声说道，“我也是。”
Remus pulled a face at him. “Come on then, I’m hungry. Lunch.” 雷穆斯对他做了个鬼脸。“那么走吧，我饿了。午餐。”
They both set off down the corridor towards the Great Hall. Aside from Remus’s streak of detentions following the quidditch final, they’d all had a very relaxing week, with nothing to do but plan for the future. Which of course meant that they had done absolutely no planning for the future. 他们一同走下走廊，朝大礼堂走去。除了雷穆斯在魁地奇决赛后的拘留记录之外，他们度过了非常放松的一周，除了计划未来没有其他事情要做。而这当然意味着他们根本没有进行任何未来的规划。
“We’re not leaving anything behind.” Remus said, thoughtfully, as they walked. “我们不会留下任何东西。”雷穆斯一边走一边深思地说道。
“Eh?” Sirius asked, distracted by a group of girls who’d walked past, giggling. Remus flicked his ear. “Ow!” Sirius ducked, “They were looking at you, Remus ‘fuck-me-we-won’ Lupin. What were you saying?” “嗯？”天狼星问道，分心地看着一群路过的女孩们咯咯笑。雷穆斯弹了弹他的耳朵。“哦！”天狼星躲闪道，“她们在看你，雷穆斯‘操，咱们赢了’卢平。你刚刚说什么？”
“We won’t be leaving anything behind, like Lyall’s trophy.” “我们不会留下任何东西，比如莱尔的奖杯。”
“James and I are on the quidditch cup. And Prongs is Head Boy, doesn’t that get recorded somewhere? And Peter won that chess tournament.” “詹姆斯和我在魁地奇奖杯上。而且詹姆斯是级长，不是会有记录吗？彼得还赢得了那个国际象棋比赛。”
“Oh yeah. Must just be me, then.” Remus sighed, forlorn. “哦，对。那可能只是我吧。”雷穆斯叹了口气，显得有些失落。
“Er… there’s the whomping willow?” Sirius tried. “呃……还有那棵扑朔树呢？”天狼星尝试着说道。
Remus just scowled at him. Well, he supposed. That’s what you get for trying not to be noticed. He remained contemplative throughout lunch - which was fish and chips, with a choice of mushy or whole peas (Remus experimented with a combination of both). 雷穆斯只是对他皱起了眉头。好吧，他想。这就是你试图不被注意的结果。他在午餐时一直沉思——午餐是炸鱼薯条，还可以选择豆子（雷穆斯尝试了两者的结合）。
“All right there, Moony?” James asked, between mouthfuls. “You’re very quiet.” “怎么样，穆尼？”詹姆斯在吃东西时问道。“你很安静。”
“He’s worrying about his legacy,” Sirius announced. “He wants a trophy.” “他在担心他的遗产，”天狼星宣布道。“他想要一个奖杯。”
“Shut up, no I don’t.” Remus blushed. “闭嘴，我才不想呢。”雷穆斯脸红了。
“If you ask me, that match commentary deserved a medal. Special services to the school,” Mary laughed. “You can’t go anywhere in the castle without hearing someone shout ‘buggering christ, that was close!’ It’s brilliant.” “如果你问我，那场比赛的解说应该得到一枚奖章。对学校的特殊服务，”玛丽笑道。“你在城堡里哪里都不能去，听不到有人喊‘操的基督，那真是太惊险了！’ 真是太棒了。”
Remus grinned, feeling a bit better. He’d been quietly enjoying his fifteen minutes of fame, and had received enough gifts of cigarettes and chocolate to see him through the summer. Which was just as well, he supposed, because in a few short months he’d have to start supporting himself. 雷穆斯露出了笑容，感觉好了一些。他一直在安静地享受这十五分钟的名声，并且收到了足够的香烟和巧克力作为礼物，可以让他度过整个夏天。也好，他想，因为在短短几个月内他就得开始自食其力了。
“Don’t worry, Remu, if you know what goes off without a hitch on Friday,” James whispered, leaning in, “Then no one’ll forget us in a hurry.” “别担心，雷穆，如果你知道星期五的事顺利进行，”詹姆斯低声说道，靠近他，“那么没人会很快忘记我们。”
“I thought the point was that no one knew who did it?” Remus quirked an eyebrow. “我以为重点是没有人知道是谁做的？”雷穆斯挑了挑眉毛。
“Oh, come on.” Lily scoffed. And she had a point. “哦，拜托。”莉莉嗤之以鼻。她说得有道理。
Still, Remus couldn’t help but be a bit troubled. He didn’t want his only monument to be the whomping willow, or that godforsaken shack. 尽管如此，雷穆斯还是有点烦恼。他不想让他的唯一纪念物是那棵扑朔树，或者那座被诅咒的小屋。
“How do ghosts happen?” He asked, thoughtfully, watching Nearly Headless Nick drift by, chatting with the Fat Friar. “鬼是怎么来的？”他若有所思地问道，注视着几乎无头的尼克漂浮而过，与胖修士聊天。
“Merlin, Moony, cheer the fuck up,” Sirius groaned, mouth full of chips, “You’d have to be dead to become a ghost. And I s’pose you’d have to die here, too, on school grounds.” “梅林啊，穆尼，振作点，”天狼星嘟囔道，嘴里塞满了薯条，“你得死了才会变成鬼。我想你还得在这里，学校的场地上死去。”
Remus shrugged. Dying at Hogwarts didn’t seem very likely, unless something dire was going to happen in the next few days. 雷穆斯耸了耸肩。在霍格沃茨死去似乎不太可能，除非在接下来的几天里会发生什么严重的事情。
“A portrait, then.” He said. “...Actually, no. I don’t want to be able to talk to myself, that’s creepy.” “那么，画像吧。”他说。“……其实，不。我不想能和自己对话，那太诡异了。”
“They’re really expensive, too,” James said, “Our family never bothered.” “而且它们真的很贵，”詹姆斯说道，“我们家从未考虑过。”
“Typical Potters,” Sirius said, haughtily. His plate now clean, he set the knife and fork neatly at its centre, and it soon vanished. “Of course the Blacks are all preserved for posterity in the family gallery.” “典型的
波特家族，”天狼星傲慢地说道。他的盘子已经干净，他把刀叉整齐地放在盘子中央，很快就消失了。“当然，布莱克家族的人都被保留在家族画廊中。”
“Even you?” Remus glanced at him, “Not me.” Sirius shook his head with a small smile, “I wasn’t there when I came of age. I expect Reggie’s been done now, though. More fool him.” “连你也在里面？”雷穆斯瞥了他一眼，“不是我。”天狼星带着微笑摇了摇头，“我成年时不在那儿。我想雷吉现在已经画了。不过他真是傻。”
“Remus!” Marlene came running up to the dining table. She looked flushed and excited. “雷穆斯！”玛琳跑到餐桌旁。她看起来脸红而兴奋。
“Yeah?” Remus sat up straight, looking up at her expectantly. “嗯？”雷穆斯坐直了身子，期待地看着她。
“Can I see you for a minute? I’ve got something for you!” She was hopping from foot to foot, clearly very eager to tell him something. “我能和你说几句话吗？我有东西要给你！”她脚步不停地跳动，显然非常迫切地想告诉他什么。
“Er… ok…” Remus glanced around nervously. He didn’t like surprises, but he trusted Marlene for now, and she seemed so happy. “呃……好的……”雷穆斯紧张地四处张望。他不喜欢惊喜，但他现在信任玛琳，而且她看起来很高兴。
“Come with me,” she grabbed his hand and pulled him up. “跟我来，”她抓住他的手，把他拉起来。
“Should I…?” Sirius started, but Marlene shook her head, “It’s private! Come on, Remus!” She practically dragged him from the hall, apparently not caring that he would miss pudding now. “我应该……？”天狼星开始问道，但玛琳摇了摇头，“这是私人事！快来，雷穆斯！”她几乎把他从大厅拖走，显然不在乎他现在会错过甜点。
“Ugh, slow down, will you,” he panted, feeling his hip click as they began to traverse the first flight of stairs. “呃，慢点好不好，”他喘息着说道，感觉到在他们开始爬第一段楼梯时，髋关节发出声响。
“Sorry, I’m just so excited to show you!” “对不起，我只是太兴奋了，要给你看！”
“Show me what?!” “给我看什么？！”
“It’s private!” “这是私人事！”
He sighed, and just focussed on trying to keep up with her. Sometimes Remus felt he spent his whole life being dragged around this castle by people who were more athletic than him. When they reached Gryffindor common room Remus looked at her expectantly, and she suddenly turned shy, chewing her thumbnail. 他叹了口气，只是专注于试图跟上她。有时候雷穆斯觉得自己一辈子都在被比自己更有运动能力的人拖着在城堡里跑。当他们到达格兰芬多公共休息室时，雷穆斯期待地看着她，而她突然变得害羞，咬着自己的指甲。
“What?” He said, “Not private enough?!” He gestured about the empty room - everyone else was at dinner, probably enjoying their pudding. Hadn’t had apple crumble in ages, it would be just Remus’s luck if they were serving it today and he missed out. “怎么了？”他说，“还不够私人？！”他环顾了一下空旷的房间——其他人都在吃晚餐，可能在享受甜点。已经很久没吃苹果脆饼了，如果他们今天供应，而他又错过了，那真是雷穆斯的运气不好。
“I think we’d better go up to your dorm.” Marlene said, setting off again. “Just in case.” “我想我们最好还是上你们的宿舍去。”玛琳说道，再次出发。“以防万一。”
“Jesus Christ, Marls, what’s this all about?” Remus followed her up the stairs, “哦，天啊，玛琳，这到底是怎么回事？”雷穆斯跟着她上了楼梯，
“Oh, I’ve suddenly decided I fancy blokes, so I’ve lured you up here to seduce you,” she casually threw over her shoulder. “哦，我突然决定我喜欢男人，所以我把你引到这里来勾引你，”她漫不经心地说道。
“You spend too much time with Mary.” He returned dryly. “你和玛丽待在一起的时间太多了。”他干脆地回道。
Once they were in the bedroom, she closed the door, and Remus went to sit on his bed, his legs sore. She looked around furtively, “Why are there only three beds in here?” 一旦他们进入卧室，她关上了门，雷穆斯去坐在他的床上，感觉到腿部酸痛。她偷偷地环顾四周，“为什么这里只有三张床？”
“Acceptance testing for the prank went a bit wrong.” Remus shrugged. “恶作剧的验收测试有点出错。”雷穆斯耸了耸肩。
Marlene just shook her head like an overindulgent mother. She reached into the pocket of her robes and pulled out a small shallow jar, and held it out to Remus. 玛琳只是像一个过度溺爱的母亲一样摇了摇头。她从长袍的口袋里拿出一个小而浅的罐子，递给雷穆斯。
“Trousers off,” she said. “脱裤子，”她说道。
“Excuse me?!” “对不起？！”
“It’s for your hip!” She unscrewed the jar excitedly, her eyes bright and eager, “I made it for you, and Danny tested it and everything!” “这是给你的髋部的！”她兴奋地拧开罐子，眼睛亮晶晶的，“我为你做的，丹尼也测试过了！”
“What… what does it do?” He peered into the pot warily. Whatever was inside looked like vaseline, semi-transparent with a thick, goopy consistency. “这……这有什么用？”他警惕地窥视着罐子里的东西。里面的东西看起来像凡士林，半透明，粘稠而厚重。
“I thought about what you said about how a mixture of muggle and magical medicine works best,” she explained, “So I did some experimenting. I tried valerian and comfrey and turmeric… turned out that ginger worked the best, who would have thought? Then just combined it with the right amount of anti-inflammatory poultice, and some dittany for extra strength. Go on! Rub it on!” “我考虑了你说的关于麻瓜和魔法药物混合效果最好的话，”她解释道，“所以我做了一些实验。我尝试了缬草、苦苣和姜黄……结果发现姜最好，谁能想到呢？然后就把它与适量的消炎药膏混合，再加一些二分草以增强效果。快去！涂上！”
“Er. Ok…” Remus said, taking the jar and walking into the bathroom, locking the door behind him. He held it in his hands for a while, sniffing the contents. It smelt like ginger, which was fairly pleasant, and not too strong. “呃，好吧……”雷穆斯说，拿着罐子走进浴室，锁上门。他手里拿着罐子闻了闻。它闻起来像姜味，还是相当宜人的，不太强烈。
“You shouldn’t need too much,” Marlene called through the door, making him jump and retreat as far into the bathroom as he could. “Just smooth it onto the skin over the sore area.” “你不需要涂太多，”玛琳从门外喊道，让他吓了一跳，尽可能地退到浴室里。“只需将它涂抹在疼痛区域的皮肤上。”
“Ok,” he replied, croakily. This was weird. But he owed it to Marlene to try, if this was a peace offering. “好的，”他沙哑地回答道。这有点奇怪。但如果这是一个和解的礼物，他应该试一试。
He unbuckled his trousers and pulled them down to his thigh, underwear and all. Then, balancing the jar carefully on the side of the bath, he scooped out a small dollop of the concoction - about the size of a grape - with his fingers, and carefully rubbed it onto his bare skin. 他解开了裤子，把它们拉到大腿上，连内裤一起。然后，小心地将罐子放在浴缸边上，用手指挖出一小团药膏——大约像一颗葡萄那么大——小心地涂抹在裸露的皮肤上。
It was tingly at first, and then began to grow warm - but not unpleasantly so. He could feel it seeping into his skin, down into the joints and gristle and bone, warming and soothing as it went. It was a feeling he’d long forgotten. It was relief. 一开始有点刺痛，然后开始变暖——但并不令人不快。他能感觉到它渗透到皮肤里，深入关节、筋肉和骨头，随着它的温暖和舒缓而扩散。这是他早已遗忘的感觉。那是一种解脱。
“Marlene!” He shouted. “玛琳！”
“What?! Are you ok?!” She called anxiously. “怎么了？！你还好吗？！”她焦急地问道。
“If you still want to seduce me,” he replied, “I’d probably do anything you asked me to right now.” “如果你还想勾引我，”他回答道，“我现在可能会做任何你让我做的事。”
He heard her sniggering on the other side of the door, “It works, then?” 他听到她在门另一边窃笑，“那有效果吗？”
“It’s a bloody miracle!” “真是个该死的奇迹！”
“It’s bloody magic, you silly git,” she replied. “Come out, then!” “这是该死的魔法，你这个傻瓜，”她回应道。“出来吧！”
He hurriedly pulled his trousers back up and fastened them, striding over to the door and opening it. Not so much as a twinge. 他急忙拉起裤子，扣好，走到门边打开了门。没有一点痛感。
His hip had bothered him for so long now he could barely remember what it felt like to walk without being conscious of his limitations. He beamed at Marlene, grabbed her around the waist and spun her around. 他的髋部困扰了他这么久，他几乎记不得走路时没有感到局限的感觉是什么样的了。他对玛琳微笑，搂着她的腰旋转了一下。
“Thank you!” He said, over and over. “谢谢你！”他一遍遍地说。
She squealed, “Lupin you lunatic, let me go!” 她尖叫道，“卢平，你这疯子，放开我！”
He kissed her on the cheek and put her down. “你比看起来要强多了，”她笑着脸红，把头发别到耳后，“哦，我真高兴它有效！我曾想过好几次去找波沫弗教授帮忙，但我觉得你会更愿意我自己解决。”
“You’re a lot stronger than you look,” she laughed, blushing, tucking her hair back behind her ear, “Oh, I’m so glad it worked! I wanted to ask Madam Pomfrey to help so many times, but I thought you’d rather I kept it to myself.” “你比看起来要强多了，”她笑着脸红，把头发别到耳后，“哦，我真高兴它有效！我曾想过好几次去找波沫弗教授帮忙，但我觉得你会更愿意我自己解决。”
“Thank you,” he said again. “You’re… you’re amazing! I wish I had some way to pay you back!” “谢谢你，”他再次说道。“你真是……你真棒！我希望我能有办法报答你！”
“You have,” she shook her head, “You helped Danny, even though you’ve never met him, and you knew how dangerous it was. And… you helped me, in the end, too. I know what I want to do now. We’re going to win this war, and when it’s over I’m going to start doing some proper research into lycanthropy, you know, set up real clinics so people get the help they need. If everyone else can see what I see in you and my brother, then maybe… I dunno, maybe things can be better.” “你已经报答了，”她摇了摇头，“你帮助了丹尼，尽管你从未见过他，而且你知道这很危险。而且……你最后也帮助了我。我现在知道自己想做什么了。我们会赢得这场战争，当一切结束后，我会开始做一些真正的狼人研究，你知道，建立真正的诊所，让人们得到他们需要的帮助。如果其他人能看到我在你和我哥哥身上看到的东西，那么也许……我不知道，也许事情会变得更好。”
She was looking at her feet bashfully as she said this, but Remus couldn’t stop grinning, shifting from foot to foot just to prove to himself it didn’t hurt. Nothing hurt. He had to tell Sirius. 她在说这番话时害羞地看着自己的脚，但雷穆斯忍不住微笑，来回换脚以证明自己不再疼痛。什么都不疼。他必须告诉天狼星。
“You’re going to be an incredible healer, Marls,” he hugged her again. “Can I keep this?” He went back to the bathroom for the jar, holding it up. “你会成为一名了不起的治疗师，玛琳，”他再次拥抱她。“我可以留下这个吗？”他回到浴室拿起罐子，举了起来。
“Of course you can!” She nodded vigorously, “I don’t know how long the effects last… if you wouldn’t mind making a note of it, each time you reapply? It’ll be useful to know…” “当然可以！”她使劲点头，“我不知道效果会持续多久……如果你不介意的话，每次重新涂抹时记下效果？知道这些会很有用……”
“Yeah, yeah, anything,” he replied, carefully screwing the cap back on. “好的，好的，任何事，”他回答道，小心地拧紧盖子。
“I’d better go and find Yaz - she’s got no idea where I’ve been all day, I told her it was to do with the prank, but I don’t think she believes me...” “
我最好去找亚兹——她不知道我整天去哪了，我告诉她是跟恶作剧有关，但我觉得她不相信我……”
“They’re down in the common room, the lot of them, they just got back from dinner,” Remus replied offhandedly, still staring at the jar in awe. “他们都在公共休息室里，刚刚从晚餐回来，”雷穆斯随口说道，仍然在惊叹地看着罐子。
“How on earth could you know that?” “你怎么知道的？”
“Er…” he glanced up, awkwardly… “Good sense of smell… like really good.” “呃……”他尴尬地抬起头，“好嗅觉……真的很好。”
Her eyes widened, and she shook her head solemnly, “I’ve got so much to learn…” 她的眼睛睁大了，庄重地摇了摇头，“我还有很多东西要学……”
“Come on,” he laughed, patting her shoulder, “One thing at a time…” “来吧，”他笑着拍了拍她的肩膀，“一件事一次……”
* * *
Sirius was a true gentleman when Remus told him the good news about Marlene’s poultice, and did not say ‘I told you so’ even once. He was too happy listening to Remus babble about how much better he felt. 当雷穆斯告诉天狼星玛琳的药膏的好消息时，天狼星表现得像一个真正的绅士，甚至一次也没有说“我早就告诉过你”。他太高兴了，听雷穆斯唠叨他感觉好得多了。
“I don’t know what I ever did.” Remus sighed after they’d gone to bed later that night. “我不知道我到底做了什么。”雷穆斯在那晚他们上床后叹了口气。
“What d’you mean?” Sirius yawned. “你什么意思？”天狼星打了个哈欠。
“You know. You learnt lenticular magna for me, all the way back in first year. And Lily made me that reading aid, and you, Peter and Prongs all became animagi, just so you could spend time with me.” “你知道的。你为我学会了透镜魔法，那是在第一年。而莉莉给我做了阅读辅助工具，你、彼得和詹姆斯都成为了动画幻兽，只是为了和我在一起。”
“What’s your point?” “你想说什么？”
“I don’t know what I did,” Remus replied, shrugging, “To earn any of it.” “我不知道我做了什么，”雷穆斯回答道，耸耸肩，“来得到这些。”
“Moony,” Sirius gave him a funny look. “You’re doing that thing again.” “月亮，”天狼星给了他一个奇怪的表情。“你又开始那样了。”
“Eh?” “嗯？”
“We’re your friends! Friends help each other! As if you haven’t done things for Lily, and Marlene, and Wormtail, and James, and me… merlin, me more than anyone.” “我们是你的朋友！朋友之间互相帮助！就像你没为莉莉、玛琳、尾巴虫、詹姆斯和我做过事情一样……梅林，尤其是我。”
“I know,” Remus replied, still smiling, “I know. I suppose I just feel so lucky.” “我知道，”雷穆斯回答道，仍在微笑，“我知道。我只是觉得自己太幸运了。”
“You are soppy these days,” Sirius smirked, folding his arms behind his head. “Is this what it’s going to be like living with you? And I always thought you were such a tough nut.” “你这些天变得太多愁善感了，”天狼星露出得意的笑容，双手抱在脑后。“这就是和你住在一起的感觉吗？我一直以为你是个坚强的人。”
“Still tougher than you.” Remus glanced at him sideways. “比你还坚强。”雷穆斯侧眼看了看他。
Sirius’s eyes were closed, but he was smiling. Now seemed as good a time as any. 天狼星闭着眼睛，但他在微笑。现在似乎是一个很好的时机。
“Do you really want to live with me?” Remus asked. “你真的想和我住在一起吗？”雷穆斯问道。
“‘Course I do,” Sirius replied, eyes still closed. “当然想，”天狼星回答道，眼睛仍然闭着。
“I mean… not just with James’s parents. In our own place.” “我指的是……不仅仅是和詹姆斯的父母在一起。在我们自己的地方。”
Sirius opened his eyes, “Obviously. That’s the plan, isn’t it?” “显然。这就是计划，不是吗？”天狼星睁开眼睛。
“I…” Remus fumbled for the right words. He was very comfortable around Sirius now, feeling he could say almost anything. But sometimes it was the same old struggle. “I wasn’t sure. You know I haven’t got much money…” “我……”雷穆斯找不到合适的词语。他现在和天狼星在一起感到非常舒适，觉得几乎可以说任何事情。但有时还是会挣扎。“我不确定。你知道我没多少钱……”
“And you know I’m rolling in it,” Sirius shrugged, making the bedsheets crinkle. “What’s mine is yours, I don’t want you worrying about boring crap like that.” “你知道我有的是钱，”天狼星耸耸肩，弄皱了床单。“我的就是你的，我不想让你担心这些无聊的事情。”
“It’s only boring to you because you’ve never had to think about it.” “对你来说只有无聊，因为你从未考虑过这些。”
“Well now you don’t have to think about it either. Got it?” “好吧，现在你也不用考虑这些了。明白了吗？”
“Ok.” Remus nodded. Something to revisit later, maybe, when there wasn’t a war looming, and they could have conversations about normal, everyday things. For now, if they weren’t talking about the war, Sirius preferred daydreams. Remus settled back, “Where shall we live, then?” “好的。”雷穆斯点头。也许以后可以再谈这些，可能在战争威胁不再时，他们可以讨论一些正常的日常事务。现在，如果他们不谈战争，天狼星更喜欢做白日梦。雷穆斯靠回去，“那我们要住在哪里呢？”
“London.” Sirius said, firmly. “Muggle London.” “伦敦。”天狼星坚定地说道。“麻瓜伦敦。”
“In a big house?” “住在大房子里？”
“No.” Sirius shook his head, frowning a bit, “I don’t like big houses; too many empty rooms. If it’s just two of us, we don’t need all that space.” “不。”天狼星摇摇头，有些皱眉，“我不喜欢大房子；房间太多空着。如果只有我们两个，我们不需要那么大的空间。”
This was a remarkably sensible consideration, but Remus didn’t say anything. He understood. But if they were being sensible… 这是一个非常明智的考虑，但雷穆斯没有说什么。他理解。但如果他们要理智……
“I want you to meet Hope.” He said. Sirius opened his eyes again, “What?” “我想让你见见霍普。”他说道。天狼星再次睁开眼睛，“什么？”
“She’s dying,” Remus said, matter of factly, “Lung cancer - a thing muggles get. Anyway, it can’t be cured, and I don’t think she has more than a year.” “她快死了，”雷穆斯平静地说道，“肺癌——麻瓜会得的病。反正没法治愈，我觉得她最多活一年。”
“Moony, I’m sorry… I had no idea.” “月亮，我很抱歉……我不知道。”
“S’ok,” Remus replied, “I’ve known since the first time I met her. I’ve known I wouldn’t have long. She’s not perfect, but she cares about me. I want her to see that I have someone. That I’m not alone.” “没事，”雷穆斯回答道，“自从我第一次见到她时我就知道了。我知道我不会有太久的时间了。她不是完美的，但她关心我。我希望她能看到我身边有人。知道我不孤单。”
“Moony…” “月亮……”
“I know, I know,” Remus laughed, “I’m being soppy…” “我知道，我知道，”雷穆斯笑着说，“我在多愁善感……”
“No,” Sirius reached over and laid his hand softly on Remus’s chest. “That’s just one of the nicest things I’ve ever heard.” “不，”天狼星伸出手轻轻放在雷穆斯的胸口。“那是我听过的最美好的事情之一。”
Remus turned his head too, and they looked at each other for a bit, both smiling in the shadowy darkness of the quiet night. When his eyes began to prick, Remus laughed again, looking
away, 雷穆斯也转过头，他们对视了一会儿，在宁静夜晚的阴影中微笑。当他的眼睛开始刺痛时，雷穆斯再次笑了，转过头去，
“Christ,” he said, “Listen to us, we’re worse than Potter and Evans.” “天哪，”他说，“听听我们，我们比波特和埃文斯还糟糕。”
“Don’t tell anyone!” Sirius laughed, wiping his eyes quickly. “Only three days of school left, we’ve got reputations to maintain.” “不要告诉任何人！”天狼星笑着，迅速擦干眼泪。“只剩三天上学了，我们得保持声誉。”
 
 

Notes:
 


Lyrics at the beginning are from 'Stairway to Heaven' by Led Zeppelin. \m/

"Pudding" in the UK (at least in the sou

th, where Remu is from) is dessert. Any kind of dessert, not just that gloopy stuff Americans call pudding. Ice cream might be pudding, or a brownie, or a fruit salad etc.

 

Chapter 150: Seventh Year: Legacy - Part Two 

So here we are...

With freedom within our sweaty, greedy, grasps.

So remember this, boys and girls,

When your freedom comes along...

Don't

Pish

in the water supply,

Just because... school is out for the summer…

 

“We got lucky with the weather,” Remus commented, gazing up at the clear blue sky. “Would have been a nightmare getting them all outside if it was raining.” 雷穆斯评论道，仰望着晴朗的蓝天，“如果下雨的话，把他们都弄到外面将会是一场噩梦。”
He was not going to miss Scottish ‘summers’. 他一点也不怀念苏格兰的“夏天”。
He and Christopher were alone in the owlery, waiting. It would begin any moment. 他和克里斯托弗独自待在猫头鹰棚里，等待着。一切即将开始。
“Don’t make fun of me, ok?” Christopher whispered, looking down at the grounds from the high open windows, “But this is the most exciting thing I’ve ever done.” 克里斯托弗低声说道，望着高高的敞开窗户外的地面，“但是这是我做过的最激动人心的事情。”
Remus smiled at him fondly, and gave his hand a quick squeeze. 雷穆斯深情地对他笑了笑，轻轻握了握他的手。
“I bet you this is just the beginning. You’re going to do so many exciting things, I know it.” “我敢打赌这只是个开始。你会做很多令人兴奋的事情，我知道。”
“I dunno, it’s going to be quiet with you lot gone,” Chris replied, peering down at the lawn below them, “I bet they make Regulus head boy… ooh! That’s the signal!” 克里斯回复道，低头看着下面的草坪，“你们走了之后会很安静……哦！那是信号！”
A fountain of golden sparks shot up from behind the greenhouses, and Remus could hear Christopher’s heart begin to beat faster with the excitement. 一束金色的火花从温室后面射出，雷穆斯能听到克里斯托弗因兴奋而加快的心跳声。
“Let’s do it, then!” Remus elbowed him. “那就开始吧！”雷穆斯用胳膊肘轻推他。
They both turned to look at the owls, hundreds of them perched in rows lining the tower walls, all the way up into the rafters. Beside them was a pile of letters - all blank except for the address. And they all had the same address. 他们都转头看向猫头鹰，数百只猫头鹰排成一排栖息在塔墙上，一直到椽子上。旁边是一堆信件——除了地址外都是空白的。而且它们都有相同的地址。
Chris looked like he was ready to burst with the thrill of it all, and Remus stepped back, giving him the floor, 克里斯看起来兴奋得快要爆炸了，雷穆斯退后一步，把空间让给他，
“You know the spell, you do it.” “你知道咒语，你来施展。”
“Really?!” “真的？！”
“Yeah,” Remus grinned, “Plenty of mischief to go around after this…” “是的，”雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，“之后还有很多恶作剧……”
“Ok!” He rolled up his sleeves, licking his lips. He uttered the incantation and swept his wand broadly around the tower. A low hoot, a ruffling of feathers, and then… utter chaos as all five hundred owls suddenly leapt from their perches and swooped down towards the two boys, who both ducked for cover. “好的！”他卷起袖子，舔了舔嘴唇。他念出咒语，挥动魔杖在塔内大范围地挥舞。低沉的叫声，羽毛的摩擦声，然后……完全的混乱，五百只猫头鹰突然从栖息处跳下，向两个男孩扑去，他们都躲避起来。
Remus had never seen anything so magnificent; every single owl in Hogwarts spread its wings and soared out of the window, each one snatching a blank addressed letter as it passed. It must have taken two full minutes for them all to manage it, and when it was over, Remus and Christopher jumped at the window to watch them disappear down towards the courtyard, through the arches and on to their destination. 雷穆斯从未见过如此壮观的景象；霍格沃茨的每只猫头鹰都展开翅膀，从窗户飞出，每只都抓住一封空白的地址信。大约花了整整两分钟才完成，当一切结束后，雷穆斯和克里斯托弗跳到窗边，观看它们消失在庭院中，通过拱门，前往目的地。
“Wow!” Chris kept saying, like a yappy little dog, “Wow wow wow!” 克里斯不停地说，“哇！哇哇哇！”
Remus just grinned, and thought about James and Sirius elsewhere in the castle, watching for that signal. And Mary, Marlene and Yaz, poised and ready for their own part, and everyone else in the castle waiting, waiting for the thing they had been planning since Christmas. 雷穆斯只是咧嘴笑了笑，想到城堡里其他地方的詹姆斯和天狼星，正在等待那个信号。还有玛丽、玛琳和亚兹，准备好他们的部分，以及城堡里的其他人，等待着他们从圣诞节就开始计划的事情。
“Let’s go!” Remus said, grabbing Chris’s arm, “We can watch them all running out.” “我们走吧！”雷穆斯说，抓住克里斯的胳膊，“我们可以看他们都跑出来。”
If five hundred owls suddenly flocking to the dungeons didn’t get everyone out, then Remus was confident that James and Sirius’s patented exploding toilet seats would do the job. 如果五百只猫头鹰突然飞向地牢没有把所有人都弄出来，那么雷穆斯确信詹姆斯和天狼星专利的爆炸马桶座会完成这个任务。
They ran down the spiral staircase together (Remus taking the steps two at a time, still relishing his newfound mobility) and onto the main corridor, where pandemonium reigned supreme. 他们一起跑下螺旋楼梯（雷穆斯一次跨两级台阶，仍然享受着他新发现的行动自由）来到主走廊，这里一片混乱。
Every portrait was singing at the top of its lungs - from muggle pop songs to wizard nursery rhymes, whatever the third years had fancied when they cast the spell, Remus assumed. The suits of armour had left their posts and taken to following students around. Remus hoped that wasn’t too menacing - they weren’t actually doing anything, after all, just mimicking movements. It had been James’s idea - king of locomotion spells. 每幅画像都在高声歌唱——从麻瓜流行歌曲到巫师童谣，雷穆斯猜想这是三年级学生施法时喜欢的东西。盔甲离开了它们的岗位，开始跟随学生。雷穆斯希望这不会太具威胁性——毕竟它们实际上并没有做什么，只是在模仿动作。这是詹姆斯的主意——运动咒语之王。
“I did it, Remus, I did it!” A fourth year Ravenclaw came running out of the nearest bathroom, followed by a mass of pink bubbles, “Blew it right up!” “我做到了，雷穆斯，我做到了！”一个四年级的拉文克劳从最近的浴室跑出来，后面跟着一大堆粉红色的泡泡，“把它炸飞了！”
“Well done!” Remus clapped him on the back, congratulating him. “干得好！”雷穆斯拍了拍他的背，祝贺他。
“I can’t wait for the big finish!” “我迫不及待地想看到大结局！”
“Better hurry,” Remus advised, “Won’t be long.” “最好快点，”雷穆斯建议道，“不会太久。”
The fourth year nodded and set off towards the grounds, pink foam flooding out into the hall. 那个四年级学生点点头，朝操场走去，粉红色的泡沫涌进了走廊。
“You’ve taught so many people things they never would have learnt,” Christopher marvelled as they walked. The big clock outside the Great Hall was whirling madly, hands spinning - so was every other clock, if the sixth years’ spell had worked correctly. 克里斯托弗边走边惊叹道，“你教了这么多人他们从未学过的东西。”大厅外的大钟疯狂地旋转，指针在转——如果六年级的咒语起作用的话，其他所有钟表也是如此。
“Oh yeah,” Remus snorted, “Blowing up toilets and levitating desks. Very useful.” “哦，是的，”雷穆斯哼了一声，“炸厕所和漂浮课桌。非常有用。”
“Don’t forget all the defensive stuff,” Christopher frowned, “I’d have been confounded again if not for you.” “别忘了所有的防御技巧，”克里斯托弗皱眉道，“
要不是你，我早就被困惑咒困住了。”
They followed the steady stream of students exiting the building. Remus just hoped they’d caused enough mayhem in enough areas of the castle to get everyone outside onto the lawn. It wouldn’t be any fun if half the school missed the main event. 他们跟着不断离开建筑物的学生流。雷穆斯只希望他们在城堡的足够多地方制造了足够的混乱，把所有人都弄到草坪上。如果一半的学校错过了主要活动，那就没意思了。
“How is Lockhart?” He asked, casually. “洛哈特怎么样？”他随意地问道。
“Fine, I think. Leaving me alone, anyway.” “很好，我想。无论如何，他不再打扰我了。”
“Good. S’pose you can handle him if he doesn’t.” “好吧。假设如果他不这样做，你能应付他。”
“Yeah.” They’d reached the courtyard now, and were within sight of the grounds. Christopher squinted in the bright summer sunshine and looked up at Remus, stopping a moment. “I’ll really miss you, though.” “是的。”他们现在已经到了庭院，可以看到操场。克里斯托弗在明亮的夏日阳光下眯起眼睛，抬头看着雷穆斯，停了一会儿。“不过，我真的会想念你。”
“You’re only here one more year,” Remus replied, “You’ll be too busy with NEWTs to think about anything else; trust me.” “你只剩下一年了，”雷穆斯回答，“你会忙着考NEWTs，没时间想其他的；相信我。”
“No, I’m still going to miss you.” Chris said, firmly. “I’ll keep the study group going - but it won’t be the same. Everyone likes you so much, you’re patient with them.” “不，我还是会想念你。”克里斯坚定地说。“我会继续维持学习小组——但这不会一样。大家都很喜欢你，你对他们很有耐心。”
Remus didn’t know how to respond to that, so he didn’t. There was a funny lump in his throat, all the same. 雷穆斯不知道该如何回应，所以他没有回应。尽管如此，他喉咙里有一种奇怪的哽咽感。
“C’mon,” he pulled Christopher’s arm, moving towards the grounds. “Don’t want to miss it!” “来吧，”他拉着克里斯托弗的胳膊，朝操场走去。“不要错过！”
More than half the school had gathered on Hogwarts’ expansive lawn, all chattering a mile a minute about the various interruptions and intrusions to their mornings. 超过一半的学校聚集在霍格沃茨宽阔的草坪上，大家都在喋喋不休地讨论早上的各种干扰和入侵。
“Did you see all those owls?” “你看到那些猫头鹰了吗？”
“The Great Hall is flooded! Flooded !” “礼堂被淹了！淹了！”
“The Ravenclaw door-knocker is speaking gobbledygook, apparently, won’t let anyone in.” “拉文克劳的门环在胡言乱语，显然不让任何人进去。”
“The statue of the knight on the fifth floor threw water balloons at me!” “五楼的骑士雕像向我扔了水球！”
“Marauders, do you reckon?” “你觉得是掠夺者干的吗？”
“Definitely.” “绝对是。”
“No! I saw Emmeline Vance casting a spell on the portraits - and a group of sixth years planting dung bombs. It can’t be the marauders.” “不！我看到埃米琳·范斯对画像施咒——还有一群六年级的学生在放粪弹。这不可能是掠夺者干的。”
“Well it can’t be everyone-- ” “那不可能是所有人——”
The conjecture was interrupted as the last of the Slytherins - Regulus, Barty Crouch, Mulciber and Snape, much to Remus’s satisfaction - emerged from the castle. They were all plastered in green slime. Lily’s surprise bogey-bombs had worked a treat. Remus made a mental note to congratulate her later. She’d be a marauder, yet. 这种猜测被最后一批斯莱特林学生——雷古勒斯、巴蒂·克劳奇、穆尔西伯和斯内普——从城堡里出来时打断了，这让雷穆斯非常满意。他们身上都沾满了绿色的粘液。莉莉的惊喜鼻涕炸弹效果极佳。雷穆斯记下了以后要祝贺她的事。她迟早会成为掠夺者。
“You!” Snape came charging over, globs of pea green ooze dripping from his hair, from the tip of his nose. He pointed a long finger at Remus, face contorted with rage. “You did this! You and your filthy little friends!” “你！”斯内普冲过来，豌豆绿色的黏液从他的头发和鼻尖滴落。他用长指头指着雷穆斯，脸上满是愤怒。“是你干的！你和你那肮脏的小伙伴！”
“Whatever’s the matter, Snivellus?” Remus asked, coolly, holding his ground, “You don’t look any different to me.” “怎么了，鼻涕虫？”雷穆斯冷静地问，站稳脚跟，“在我看来你没什么不同。”
“You! You!” Snape spluttered, laughter erupting around him as younger students gathered to see. “你！你！”斯内普结结巴巴地说，周围聚集的年轻学生笑声四起。
“Scourgify,” Regulus cast a cleaning charm on himself, restoring his clothes and hair to their usual impeccable neatness. He gave Snape a bored look, “Have some decorum, Severus. Don’t rise to their pathetic bait.” “清理一新，”雷古勒斯对自己施了一个清洁咒，将他的衣服和头发恢复到一如既往的无可挑剔的整洁。他无聊地看了斯内普一眼，“保持点礼貌，西弗勒斯。不要上他们可悲的当。”
“Hey Prongs, look, they got Snivellus!” Sirius appeared through the crowd, grinning, followed by James, and Peter, “Excellent!” “嘿，叉子，看，他们抓到了鼻涕虫！”天狼星穿过人群出现，咧嘴笑着，后面跟着詹姆斯和彼得，“太好了！”
“It’s a good look, if you want my opinion,” James smirked, patting Remus on the shoulder by way of greeting. “如果你问我，这个样子不错，”詹姆斯得意地笑了笑，拍了拍雷穆斯的肩膀打招呼。
At the sight of Sirius, Regulus rolled his eyes and walked away, joining a group of Slytherins near the edge of the lake, huddled together muttering between themselves like a murder of crows. 看到天狼星，雷古勒斯翻了个白眼，走开了，加入了一群在湖边聚集的斯莱特林学生，像一群乌鸦一样低声咕哝着。
“When Dumbledore finds out you’re all behind this, he’ll--” Snape raged. “当邓布利多发现你们都是幕后黑手时，他会——”斯内普怒气冲冲地说。
“What?” Sirius cocked an eyebrow, leaning on James’s shoulder casually, as though they were just chatting, “Expel us? On the last day of school?!” “什么？”天狼星挑起眉毛，随意地靠在詹姆斯的肩膀上，好像他们只是在聊天，“开除我们？在学期的最后一天？！"
“You’ll pay!” Snape snarled. He turned and began to stalk back to the school, his robes still dripping. “你们会付出代价的！”斯内普咆哮着。他转身开始往学校走，他的长袍还在滴水。
“Slow down, Snivelly!” Peter called out, hardly able to contain his excitement, “You don’t want to miss the grand finale!” “慢点，鼻涕虫！”彼得喊道，几乎抑制不住自己的兴奋，“你不想错过大结局吧！”
“Wormtail!” Sirius hissed, kicking his shin. “Shh!” “虫尾巴！”天狼星嘶嘶地说，踢了他的小腿。“嘘！”
“Come on, it’s nearly time,” Remus said, trying to draw them all away from Snape. He was obviously about to lose it, and Remus didn’t trust the others not to push him over the edge. “快点，快到了，”雷穆斯说，试图把他们都从斯内普身边拉开。他显然快要失控了，而雷穆斯不相信其他人不会把他逼到崩溃。
Worryingly, they ended up quite close to Regulus and his clique, by the lake - but it was getting crowded and there weren’t many places to stand. Remus had never been one for public displays of affection, but he really wished he could hold Sirius’s hand right then, if only to stop him doing anything stupid. 令人担忧的是，他们最终靠近了雷古勒斯和他的小圈子，在湖边——但人越来越多，几乎没有地方站了。雷穆斯从来不喜欢在公众场合展示感情，但他真的希望现在能握住天狼星的手，哪怕只是为了阻止他做傻事。
No such luck. 没有这种运气。
“Reggie-boy,” Sirius nodded at his brother pleasantly, eyes glittering with mischief. “雷吉男孩，”天狼星愉快地向他的弟弟点头，眼睛里闪烁着顽皮的光芒。
“Sirius.” Regulus replied, facing forward, head held high. He was like an alabaster statue; a cold marble version of his hot-blooded sibling. “I had hoped you’d learnt to put these childish games behind you.” Regulus drawled, sounding bored as ever. “Silly pranks and schemes won’t be any use to you once the war is won. The Dark Lord demands order.” “天狼星。”雷古勒斯回答，面对前方，头抬得高高的。他像一尊雪花石膏雕像；是他热血兄弟的冷血版。“我本希望你已经学会把这些幼稚的游戏抛在脑后。”雷古勒斯拖长声音说道，听起来一如既往地无聊。“一旦战争胜利，这些愚蠢的恶作剧和阴谋对你没有任何用处。黑魔王需要秩序。”
“Sod your stupid old dark lord,” Sirius tutted, folding his arms. Remus realised the two brothers were mirroring each other’s body language. “去你的愚蠢老黑魔王，”天狼星咂舌，双臂交叉。雷穆斯意识到这对兄弟的肢体语言相互映衬。
All around the lake, students were gathering; they were seconds away. Remus took the opportunity to glance about at the most familiar faces - there was Christopher, talking animatedly to a few of his sixth year friends, no double re-telling what he had done in the owlery. Marlene, Mary and Yaz were giggling between themselves, and a bit further along was Emmeline Vance, still a perfect ice maiden, flirting with poor old Roman Rotherhide. A gaggle of younger students from the study group were practicing the incantation they were about to perform, and beside Remus, Lily and James were holding hands, wands at the ready. 湖边周围，学生们正在聚集；他们距离爆发只有几秒钟的时间。雷穆斯趁机扫视了一下最熟悉的面孔——克里斯托弗正生动地和几个六年级的朋友说话，肯定在重述他在猫头鹰塔里做的事情。玛琳、玛丽和亚兹在自己之间咯咯笑着，稍远一点是埃米琳·范斯，仍然是一位完美的冰姑娘，和可怜的罗曼·罗瑟希德调情。一群学习小组的年轻学生正在练习他们即将施展的咒语，而在雷穆斯旁边，莉莉和詹姆斯手拉着手，魔杖准备就绪。
 With a great clang, the Hogwarts clock tower struck midday, and James gave off a loud whistle, commanding everyone’s attention. It was now! 随着一声巨响，霍格沃茨的钟楼敲响了正午的钟声，James发出了一声响亮的口哨，吸引了所有人的注意力。就是现在！

 

It seemed to Remus that they were all holding their breath for a few beats, and he gripped his own wand tighter, throwing a quick grin at Sirius, before turning his attention back to the lake - and what lay beneath. Remus觉得他们都屏住了呼吸几拍，他更紧地握住了自己的魔杖，快速地对Sirius笑了一下，然后将注意力转回到湖上——以及湖下的东西。

 

All working as one, the members of The Marauders’ Inter-House Pranking Collective raised their wands and gathered their strength, shouting; “Attollo Magna!” 作为一个整体，The Marauders’ Inter-House Pranking Collective的成员们举起魔杖，聚集他们的力量，大喊：“Attollo Magna！”

 

Remus’s knees weakened. They’d tested the spell a few times, just the four of them in their bedroom (hence Sirius’s vanishing bed), but never with so many others - never so much magic at once. He felt as though he’d stuck his wand arm into a beehive; the magic began to thrum and vibrate through him, filling his mouth and nostrils like battery acid and pooling deep inside. Power. He was giddy with it; practically drunk. He shook his head doggishly, trying to maintain his focus and hold on - he had no idea what would happen if he let go. Remus的膝盖变得无力。他们测试过几次这个咒语，只是他们四个人在卧室里（这就是Sirius的床消失的原因），但从来没有和这么多人一起测试——从来没有这么多魔法一次出现。他感觉就像把魔杖手臂插进了蜂巢；魔法开始在他体内嗡嗡作响，填满了他的口腔和鼻孔，像电池酸一样积聚在深处。力量。他为此感到头晕目眩；几乎醉了。他狗狗地摇了摇头，试图保持专注并坚持下去——他不知道如果放手会发生什么。

 

Meanwhile, something was happening on the lake. The surface began to ripple and shimmer; an odd groaning creaking sound came from a mile below, and then… then… *POP*. With almost comical immediacy, the spell had worked. Remus felt a great twist inside himself - which was not unpleasant, but not ignorable either, causing him to gasp. 与此同时，湖面上发生了一些事情。湖面开始波动和闪烁；从一英里以下传来一种奇怪的呻吟声，然后……然后……*POP*。几乎滑稽地立即，咒语起作用了。Remus感觉到自己内部有一个巨大的扭曲——这并不令人不愉快，但也无法忽视，让他喘不过气来。

 

They’d done it. Students began to laugh and point, the Slytherins were crying out, one by one, stupid with shock. Even Regulus’s mouth had dropped open. 他们做到了。学生们开始笑着指指点点，Slytherins一个接一个地尖叫，震惊得愚蠢。甚至Regulus的嘴巴也张开了。

 

There, hovering just meters above the still waters, directly over the dungeons, hovered every bed and trunk from the Slytherin dormitories. It was beautiful. Absolutely perfect in every way. The layout of each dorm had been preserved; all they’d had to do was transport everything a mile or so upwards. The barrier charm (soft-hearted Lily’s idea) was working well too - meaning that no one's possessions were really in any danger of getting wet. They’d just have to work out the counter-spell, and everything would return to normal - provided all of the Slytherins worked together, of course. 就在那里，悬浮在静止的水面上方几米处，正对着地牢，悬浮着Slytherin宿舍的每一张床和每一个箱子。它很美。每一个方面都绝对完美。每个宿舍的布局都被保留了；他们只需要把所有东西往上一英里左右。屏障咒语（心软的Lily的主意）也运作得很好——这意味着没有人的财物真的有被弄湿的危险。他们只需要研究出解除咒语的方法，一切就会恢复正常——当然，前提是所有Slytherins一起合作。

 

That had been a Hufflepuff idea. 这是一个Hufflepuff的主意。

 

Remus’s muscles were still twitching from channelling all that magic. He was a live wire; static buzzed at his fingertips. Luckily, very few people noticed; they were too busy cheering or screaming with dismay at the sight before them. Fireworks were flying over the tops of the beds now, spelling out; Remus的肌肉仍然在因引导所有这些魔法而抽搐。他就像一条带电的电线；静电在他的指尖嗡嗡作响。幸运的是，很少有人注意到；他们都忙着为眼前的景象欢呼或惊叫。烟火现在飞过床顶，拼写出：

 

Have a Great Summer, Slytherin! From; Gryffindor, Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff! 祝你们有一个美好的暑假，Slytherin！来自；Gryffindor，Ravenclaw和Hufflepuff！

 

“Are you ok, Moony?” Sirius looked at him, reaching an arm out. “你还好吗，Moony？”Sirius看着他，伸出一只手臂。

 

“Don’t touch me!” Remus snapped, stepping back and shrugging Sirius off, hurriedly. He didn’t know what would happen; but he didn’t feel at all safe to be around. “别碰我！”Remus厉声道，急忙后退，甩开Sirius。他不知道会发生什么；但他觉得周围一点都不安全。

 

Sirius rubbed his own arm, looking hurt. Sirius揉了揉自己的手臂，看起来很受伤。

 

“Sorry,” Remus breathed, shaking his head again, “Just give me a minute--” “对不起，”Remus喘息着，摇了摇头，“给我一分钟——”

 

“YOU!” Oh no. Severus had re-appeared, and was charging towards the marauders, wand raised, red faced. It looked like he’d got off most of the slime. “你们！”哦不。Severus又出现了，正向恶作剧者们冲来，举起魔杖，脸色通红。看起来他已经去掉了大部分的黏液。

 

“Thieves!” He hissed, glaring at James and Sirius, “Give me my things back! Get them down at ONCE!” “小偷！”他嘶嘶地说，瞪着James和Sirius，“把我的东西还给我！立刻把它们放下来！”

 

Sirius and James were beside themselves with laughter, which didn’t help matters, but Snape really had brought this on himself. No one else was ranting and raving like a lunatic. Sirius和James笑得前仰后合，这并没有帮助，Snape真的自找的。没有其他人像疯子一样咆哮和狂怒。

 

Lily tried to intervene, breaking away from James. Lily试图干预，脱离了James。

 

“Severus, it’s not what you think, it’s easy enough to--” “Severus，这不是你想的那样，很容易——”

 

But it was too late. Snape had already turned to the lake and aimed his wand at whichever bed was his. He was trying a basic levitation spell; but it wasn’t going to work - the marauders had designed the spell specifically to ward against that kind of measure. 但已经太迟了。Snape已经转向湖面，把魔杖对准了他的任何一张床。他正在尝试一个基本的悬浮咒语；但它不会起作用——恶作剧者们设计的这个咒语就是为了防止这种措施。

 

“No, don’t!” Lily yelled, covering her eyes. “不，不要！”Lily喊道，捂住了眼睛。

 

But of course Snape never listened; not when he felt he’d been wronged. It seemed to work for a moment; one of the beds jerked a bit, and wobbled. But only for a microsecond. The next thing anyone knew, it had come loose, plummeting into the sparkling waters below with a loud splash. 但Snape当然不会听；尤其是当他觉得自己被冤枉的时候。它似乎起作用了一会儿；其中一张床猛地抖了一下，摇晃了一下。但只是瞬间。接下来任何人都知道的事，它已经松开了，随着一声巨

 

大的溅水声，跌入了下面闪闪发光的水中。

 

Severus stared; his mean mouth a hard straight line, dark greasy hair falling into his eyes. Severus盯着；他那张刻薄的嘴巴是一条硬直的线，黑色油腻的头发垂到眼前。

 

He turned, wand raised, and Remus caught a scent - a scent he had only recognised twice before; like charred flesh. Dark magic. A curse. Another twist in his gut, this time far less pleasant, and Remus felt a change inside him. 他转过身，举起魔杖，Remus闻到了一股气味——他之前只认出过两次的气味；像烧焦的肉。黑魔法。一个诅咒。腹部又一次扭动，这次远没有那么愉快，Remus感到自己内部发生了变化。

 

“Sectumsempra!” Snape cried. “Sectumsempra！”Snape喊道。

 

Remus didn’t even need his wand; he had more than enough power, and without thinking, stepped in front of James, raising his hand as Severus flung the curse. Remus甚至不需要他的魔杖；他有足够的力量，毫不犹豫地走到James前面，举起手，当Severus施展诅咒时。

 

The world seemed to take on a strange red hue, and wind roared in Remus’s ears, so that he only very faintly heard Lily’s scream, and James and Sirius shout, “Moony!” 世界似乎变成了一种奇怪的红色，风在Remus的耳边咆哮，使他只能隐约听到Lily的尖叫，James和Sirius喊道，“Moony！”

 

The curse hit Remus - but he felt nothing. It seemed to simply dissipate as soon as it touched his skin, leaving him with nothing worse than a feeling of mild sunburn. Still; he was weaker now than he had been two minutes ago. As if the force of the barrier he’d created had sapped him of all of his other magic. 诅咒击中了Remus——但他没有感觉到任何东西。它似乎一触碰到他的皮肤就消散了，除了轻微的晒伤感之外没有留下任何更糟的感觉。不过；他现在比两分钟前更虚弱了。就像他创造的屏障的力量耗尽了他的所有其他魔法。

 

He blinked, and everything came back to normal. Snape was still standing in front of him, looking terrified and furious in equal measure. Sirius’s hand was on Remus’s arm, and James was now charging towards Snape. 他眨了眨眼，一切恢复正常。Snape仍然站在他面前，既恐惧又愤怒。Sirius的手在Remus的手臂上，而James现在正向Snape冲去。

 

Remus sank slowly to the grass below, exhausted. He sat cross-legged on the ground, dazed, Sirius crouched beside him, Remus慢慢地坐到下面的草地上，筋疲力尽。他盘腿坐在地上，茫然不知所措，Sirius蹲在他旁边，

 

“Moony?!” “Moony?!”

 

“I’m ok.” “我没事。”

 

“What the fuck was that?!” Sirius whispered, urgently. He sounded scared. “那到底是什么鬼？！”Sirius紧张地低声说。他听起来很害怕。

 

“I… I don’t know.” Remus whispered back, bowing his head. “我……我不知道。”Remus低声回答，低下头。

 

“It was just a counter-jinx!” Lily suddenly shouted, and Remus realised she was addressing the students that had gathered around, curious. Always quick on her feet, that girl, “Snape tried to curse Potter, you all saw it! Lupin just caught it in time.” “这只是一个反咒！”Lily突然喊道，Remus意识到她是在对周围好奇的学生们说话。这个女孩总是行动迅速，“Snape试图诅咒Potter，你们都看到了！Lupin及时抓住了它。”

 

“Can you get up?” Sirius was asking, tugging at his elbow. “We’ll go to Madam Pomfrey--” “你能站起来吗？”Sirius问道，拉着他的肘部。“我们去找Pomfrey夫人——”

 

“No,” Remus shook his head, fiercely, getting up, “I’m ok. Honestly. Just surprised myself. Wordless magic or something, I haven’t got the hang of it yet.” “不，”Remus猛烈地摇了摇头，站起来，“我没事。真的。只是吓到了自己。无声魔法之类的，我还没掌握它。”

 

“Ok…” Sirius was looking at him warily. Lily was on crowd control, and James seemed to have chased Snape away - or else he’d gone to Slughorn to formally complain about the prank. “好吧……”Sirius警惕地看着他。Lily在控制人群，James似乎已经把Snape赶走了——否则他已经去找Slughorn正式投诉这个恶作剧了。

 

Equilibrium restored itself. Remus gave Sirius his best smile, and gave his arm a gentle squeeze to show that it was all ok now. Sirius relaxed a bit, nodding. 平衡恢复了。Remus给了Sirius他最好的微笑，轻轻握了握他的手臂，表明现在一切都好了。Sirius放松了一些，点了点头。

 

The older Slytherins a bit further along the lake edge were now conferring amongst themselves. It seemed that Snape’s misfortune had benefited his house-mates. At least now they knew what wouldn’t work. 湖边稍远处的年长Slytherins现在正在互相商量。看起来Snape的不幸对他的舍友们有好处。至少现在他们知道什么是行不通的。

 

“Sort of nice, isn’t it?” Mary sauntered over, smiling broadly and completely oblivious to what had just happened. “See them all employing a bit of teamwork. We might have house unity yet!” “有点不错，不是吗？”Mary漫步过来，咧嘴笑着，完全不知道刚刚发生了什么。“看到他们都在使用一点团队合作。我们可能会有舍内团结！”

 

“Don’t count on it,” Marlene smirked, just behind her. “别指望了，”Marlene在她后面讥笑道。

 

The Slytherins had begun to argue loudly. Slytherins已经开始大声争吵。

 

They all stayed to watch the drama unfold a while longer. One particularly hilarious attempt to restore order resulted in every second bed lifting a few feet higher. Another spell caused them all to face west, for no discernable reason. After an hour had past, a group of Ravenclaws took an interest and began workshopping more ideas with the desperate Slytherins. 他们都留在原地观看这场戏剧的展开。一次特别搞笑的尝试恢复秩序导致每隔一张床升高几英尺。另一个咒语使它们都朝西，没有明显的原因。一个小时过去了，一群Ravenclaws开始感兴趣，并与绝望的Slytherins一起探讨更多的想法。

 

At that point, Remus was feeling normal again, which meant only one thing. 那时，Remus又感觉正常了，这意味着只有一件事。

 

“I’m hungry.” He announced. “我饿了。”他宣布。

 

“Feast’ll be in half an hour,” Lily said, distracted by the squid, who was playing with one of the Slytherin's bedside tables, trying to bat it with its longest tentacle. “盛宴将在半小时后举行，”Lily说，被那个鱿鱼分散了注意力，它正在玩弄Slytherin的一张床头柜，试图用它最长的触手打它。

 

“I might go up and get changed then.” Mary said. “那我可能会上去换衣服。”Mary说。

 

Everyone agreed. Leave the Slytherins to it. 每个人都同意。让Slytherins自己处理吧。

 

As they walked back up to the castle, grinning and laughing together, Remus was aware of Sirius’s eyes still on him, but still couldn’t offer any explanation. Whatever had happened had only ever occurred once before - that afternoon in the forest with Castor and Livia. And that was hardly a pleasant memory for either him or Sirius. 当他们一起微笑着、笑着走回城堡时，Remus注意到Sirius的目光仍然在他身上，但仍然无法给出任何解释。无论发生了什么，这只发生过一次——在那天午后与Castor和Livia在森林里。而且这对他或Sirius来说都不是一个愉快的记忆。

 

“Oi, Black,” Marlene said, appearing beside them, “Ever get your bed back?” “嘿，Black，”Marlene说，出现在他们身边，“你拿回你的床了吗？”

 

“Hm?” Sirius frowned, “Oh, no, I never did

 

. Long gone now, I s’pose, seeking its fortune on the open road. Godspeed, old bed.” He sighed, wistfully. “嗯？”Sirius皱眉，“哦，不，我从来没有。现在早就不见了，我想，它在开放的道路上寻找自己的命运。一路顺风，老床。”他叹了口气，满怀遗憾。

 

Remus sniggered. Remus窃笑了一下。

 

“Aren’t you worried the school’ll charge you for it?” Marlene said. “你不担心学校会向你收费吗？”Marlene说。

 

He shrugged. Marlene tutted, 他耸了耸肩。Marlene咂了咂嘴，

 

“Spoilt brat.” “被宠坏的孩子。”

 

“Did you even try to get it back?” Lily asked. “你有没有尝试过把它找回来？”Lily问。

 

“Well, we don’t know where it went.” James replied, chuckling at the memory. “嗯，我们不知道它去了哪里。”James回答，回忆起这段记忆时笑了。

 

“Not even a basic summoning charm?” “连基本的召唤咒语都没试过？”

 

“No, we never--” “不，我们从来没有——”

 

“Accio bed!” Sirius yelled at the top of his lungs, waving his wand. “Accio床！”Sirius用尽全力喊道，挥动他的魔杖。

 

A faint and distant rumble. 一阵微弱而遥远的隆隆声。

 

“Oh shit…” Sirius murmured. “哦，糟了……”Sirius喃喃道。

 

The lake behind them began to bubble, and they all turned in time to see Sirius’s four poster bed rising from the water like a great mahogany submarine. Draped in seaweed and heavy waterlogged velvet hangings, it rose into the air and flew towards them so that they had to scatter and dive to the ground, covering the heads. It crashed on the spot Sirius had summoned it to with a heavy, squelchy THUD, and promptly splintered into several pieces. 他们身后的湖开始冒泡，他们及时转身看到Sirius的四柱床从水中升起，像一艘巨大的红木潜水艇。它披着海藻和沉重的湿透的天鹅绒挂毯，升到空中，向他们飞来，他们不得不散开并跳到地上，遮住头。它在Sirius召唤它的地方重重地摔下，发出沉重的“扑通”声，迅速碎成几块。

 

Silence for a few seconds, as Lily, Marlene, Mary, Yaz, James, Peter, Remus and Sirius raised their heads once more, climbing to their feet in amazement. Then laughter from every quarter - especially the Slytherins still gathered by the lake’s edge. 几秒钟的沉默，Lily、Marlene、Mary、Yaz、James、Peter、Remus和Sirius再次抬起头，惊讶地站起来。然后是四处的笑声——尤其是仍然聚集在湖边的Slytherins。

 

Sirius just stood there, scratching his head. Sirius只是站在那里，挠着头。

 

“Hm.” He said. “Bottom of the lake all along, eh?” “嗯。”他说。“一直在湖底，对吧？”

 

It was still dripping. The sheets were green with algae and sand and grit piled up on the mattress. 它还在滴水。床单上长满了海藻，床垫上堆积着沙子和砂砾。

 

“Oi, you wanker!” James said, approaching the rescued bed and snatching up a rectangular pile of greyish mulch, “Is this my quidditch magazine?!” “嘿，你这个混蛋！”James说，走近被救起的床，抓起一堆灰色的堆肥，“这是我的魁地奇杂志吗？！”

 

“Er… maybe…” Sirius grinned - then, catching the murderous glint in James’s eye, began to run at full pelt back to the castle, James chasing after him. “呃……可能吧……”Sirius咧嘴笑了——然后，看到James眼中的杀意，开始全速跑回城堡，James在后面追赶。

 

“I suppose now’s as good a time as any,” Peter whispered to Remus, “But, er… Filch caught me with the map earlier. He confiscated it.” “我想现在是个好时机，”Peter低声对Remus说，“但是，呃……Filch之前抓到了我和地图。他没收了它。”

 

“What?!” Remus rounded on him, angry. That map was his! His idea, his magic! “什么？！”Remus转向他，愤怒地说。那张地图是他的！他的主意，他的魔法！

 

“Don’t be angry with me, Moony!” Peter cringed, “It was locked and everything, I promise! No one can get into it unless they’re up to no good -- and they’d have to break into Filch’s office!” “不要对我生气，Moony！”Peter畏缩道，“它是锁着的，一切都是，我保证！没有人能进去，除非他们别有用心——而且他们必须闯进Filch的办公室！”

 

Remus stopped at these words. He was right about that. After all; anyone who could achieve both those feats would certainly be worthy of the map. And he had wanted to leave something behind; a true legacy. This way, perhaps Messrs Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot & Prongs might be remembered, one day. Remus停在这些话前。他对此是对的。毕竟；任何能完成这两个壮举的人肯定值得拥有这张地图。而且他一直想留下点什么；一个真正的遗产。这样，也许Messrs Moony、Wormtail、Padfoot和Prongs有一天会被记住。

 

He squinted ahead at the two dark haired boys chasing each other and whooping with laughter. He looked at the four girls, who’d all linked arms and were walking cheerfully back to the castle, voices light and carefree. 他眯眼看着前方两个黑发男孩互相追逐，欢笑着。他看了看那四个女孩，她们都挽着胳膊，愉快地走回城堡，声音轻松无忧。

 

What did Remus Lupin have to be angry about? What had he to worry about? His heart swelled, and he was reminded of something Sirius had told him a few months ago. Love was something you did, not something you said; and every one of these people had proved that to him. Remus Lupin有什么可生气的？他有什么可担心的？他的心膨胀了起来，他想起了几个月前Sirius告诉他的一句话。爱是你做的事情，而不是你说的事情；这些人每一个都向他证明了这一点。

 

“Alright, Wormy,” Remus flung his arm around Peter’s shoulders, grinning, “You’re forgiven. C’mon, let’s catch up.” “好了，Wormy，”Remus把胳膊甩到Peter的肩膀上，笑着说，“你被原谅了。来吧，我们赶上去。”

Chapter 151~155Chapter Summary

151. The War: July 1978 (2018-05-16)
152. The War: Infiltration (2018-05-24)
153. The War: Home Front (2018-06-01)
154. The War: Autumn 1978 (2018-06-20)
155. The War: Winter 1978-1979 (2018-06-27)

Chapter 151: The War: July 1978All our times have come

Here but now they're gone

Seasons don't fear the reaper

Nor do the wind, the sun or the rain,

(We can be like they are)

 

Come on baby, (don't fear the reaper)

Baby take my hand, (don't fear the reaper)

We'll be able to fly, (don't fear the reaper)

Baby I'm your man.


Sunday 2nd July 1978
“Hurry up, Potter!” Remus hammered on the glass in the door of the phone box. “Other people need to make phonecalls y’know!” 1978年7月2日星期日
“快点, Potter!” Remus在电话亭门的玻璃上敲击着。“还有其他人需要打电话呢！”
James rather rudely turned his back, hunching his shoulders and speaking furtively into the receiver. James很不礼貌地转过身，缩起肩膀，偷偷地对着听筒说话。
“Leave him be, Moony,” Sirius murmured, leaning heavily on the fence. He was wearing very dark sunglasses and looked paler than normal. “And stop all the banging, will you?!” “别管他，Moony，”Sirius嘟囔着，沉重地靠在围栏上。他戴着很深的太阳镜，看起来比平时更苍白。“别再敲了，好吗?!”
“Take another painkilling draught,” Remus tutted, “You’re just hungover, it’s your own fault for getting so smashed.” “再喝点止痛药剂，”Remus咂嘴道，“你只是宿醉了，这是你自己喝得太醉的错。”
“I was the life and soul, I’ll have you know.” Sirius retorted, folding his arms as Remus came to sit beside him. “我可是聚会的灵魂人物，你要知道。”Sirius反驳道，双臂交叉，Remus坐在他旁边。
The Potters had hosted the end of school party the night before, for all Hogwarts leavers and their friends. Yaz and Chris had come, even though they both had another year to go. A few members of the Order of the Phoenix were there too - no Dumbledore, but Ferox and Moody and Frank Longbottom and his pretty blonde girlfriend (now fiance, apparently). Moody had called Remus over to them a few times, only to be intercepted by Mrs Potter. Potters昨晚主办了毕业派对，邀请了所有霍格沃茨的毕业生和他们的朋友。Yaz和Chris也来了，尽管他们还要再读一年。凤凰社的一些成员也在场——没有Dumbledore，但有Ferox、Moody和Frank Longbottom及其漂亮的金发女友（现在是未婚妻，显然）。Moody几次叫Remus过去，但都被Potter夫人拦住了。
“It's his school leavers party, Alastor!” She hissed, after the fourth time. “Let him enjoy himself for five minutes before forming a flipping war council!” “这是他的毕业派对，Alastor！”她在第四次之后嘶嘶地说。“让他享受五分钟的时间，然后再形成该死的战争委员会！”
She said this so sharply that they desisted - Remus was a bit shocked too. That was the closest he’d ever heard Mrs Potter come to swearing. 她说得如此尖锐，以至于他们停止了——Remus也有点震惊。这是他听到Potter夫人最接近骂人的一次。
The rest of the party had felt just like the Gryffindor common room - while at the same time feeling nothing like the Gryffindor common room. Remus tried not to be so sad. He tried to imagine that one day he would find somewhere else that felt as much like home as Hogwarts had. 派对的其余部分感觉就像格兰芬多的公共休息室——但同时又完全不像格兰芬多的公共休息室。Remus试图不那么难过。他试图想象有一天他会找到一个像霍格沃茨一样感觉像家的地方。
Lily, Mary and Marlene all had to leave at midnight - they’d promised their parents they’d spend the night at Lily’s. Apparently their families felt that after seven years of boarding school, enough was enough. Lily、Mary和Marlene都在午夜离开了——她们答应了父母要在Lily家过夜。显然，他们的家人觉得在寄宿学校七年后，已经足够了。
Which brought Remus back to the present, watching James through the phone box door, talking to his girlfriend. Who he had literally said goodbye to eight hours earlier. 这让Remus回到了现在，通过电话亭的门看着James和他的女朋友通话。八小时前他刚和她告别。
“So unfair, him making us race down here - as if I could ever beat James ‘hangover free since ‘73’ Potter.” Remus grumbled. “And it was unsportsmanlike. He knows I have a handicap.” “太不公平了，他让我们赶紧下来——好像我能打败自‘73年以来从未宿醉的James Potter似的。”Remus抱怨道。“而且这不公平。他知道我有个障碍。”
“I thought your hip was better since you got that stuff off Marls?” Sirius frowned, making his sunglasses slip down his nose. “我以为自从你从Marls那儿拿到东西后，你的臀部好多了？”Sirius皱眉，使他的太阳镜滑落到鼻子上。
“It is.” Remus replied. “I meant my smoking.” “是的。”Remus回答。“我是说我的抽烟。”
There was a low rumble somewhere in the distance. Sirius sat up, suddenly, ripping off his glasses. 远处传来低沉的隆隆声。Sirius突然坐起身来，摘下他的眼镜。
“Is that?!” “那是?!”
Remus sighed. Remus叹了口气。
“Sounds like it, yeah…” “听起来像，是的…”
In a few moments, the neighbour’s motorbike came streaking through the village, growling all the way. Sirius gazed after it, starstruck. Once it was nothing but a shiny chrome dot in the distance, he leaned back, smiling to himself. 过了一会儿，邻居的摩托车咆哮着穿过村庄。Sirius看着它，惊叹不已。当它只剩下远处一个闪亮的铬点时，他靠回去，自己笑了笑。
“Ah, I’ve missed her.” “啊，我想她了。”
“It would be a ‘she’.” Remus muttered, folding his arms. “那肯定是个‘她’。”Remus嘟囔着，交叉双臂。
“Potter!” Sirius now got up to thump on the phone box door, “Get out here right now!” He turned to Remus, “Will you cheer the fuck up after you’ve had your phonecall?!” “Potter!” Sirius现在站起来敲打电话亭的门，“现在就出来！”他转向Remus，“打完电话你能高兴点吗？！”
“Yes.” Remus said, petulantly, looking at his feet. “是的。”Remus任性地说，看着他的脚。
It was another five minutes of ‘goodbyes’ and ‘speak soons’ before Remus got his chance. He dialed the number eagerly, and coiled the plastic cord around his fingers as he listened to it ring. 又过了五分钟的‘再见’和‘回头见’后，Remus才有机会。他急切地拨了号码，用手指卷着塑料线听着铃声。
“Yeah?” “喂？”
“Is that how you answer the phone?!” “你就这么接电话的吗？！”
“Remus?” “Remus？”
“Hiya!” “嗨！”
“Crikey! Wasn’t expecting you, did we set something up?” “天啊！没想到是你，我们有约定吗？”
“Nope,” Remus shook his head, grinning madly, “I finished school - I can call whenever I like now!” “没有，”Remus疯狂地摇头笑道，“我毕业了——现在我可以随时打电话！”
“Brilliant!” “太棒了！”
He heard some rustling on the other end of the phone and assumed Grant was making himself comfortable. Good. Sirius and James could wait a good long time. “So when you coming down to see me, eh?” Grant was asking now. 他听到电话那头有些沙沙声，猜想Grant在让自己舒服。很好。Sirius和James可以等很久。“那你什么时候下来见我？”Grant现在在问。
“Soon!” Remus said, automatically. He could apparate to Brighton in a matter of seconds, now the thought struck him. But that would be a tough one to explain. “Next week?” “很快！”Remus自动地说。他可以在几秒钟内幻影移形到布莱顿，现在这个想法让他震惊。但这很难解释。“下周？”
That would hit the sweet spot between full moons, at least. 至少，这样可以避开满月期。


“Working Saturday,” Grant replied. “On lates at the pub. Saving up for a holiday… er… August?” “星期六上班，”Grant回答。“在酒吧上晚班。为度假攒钱……呃……八月？”
“Oh. Um. Well, ok,” Remus said, a bit disheartened. “哦。嗯。好吧，”Remus有点沮丧地说。
“Sorry, just I’ve been waiting for a proper summer holiday ages, and I’m getting on a plane and everything…” “对不起，我只是等待了很久的一个正经暑假，我要坐飞机什么的……”
“No, no, August is fine!” “不，不，八月很好！”
“Good, I’ll remember to get some milk in. So where you living now?” “好，我会记得买些牛奶。那么你现在住哪儿？”
“At my friend James’s. His parents are really nice.” “在我朋友James家。他的父母很好。”
“Not moved in with lover boy, then?” “那你没和情人一起住？”
“He’s here too.” Remus explained, knowing it sounded a bit weird. “We’re going to start looking for somewhere to live soon, though. London, hopefully.” “他也在这里。”Remus解释道，知道这听起来有点奇怪。“不过我们很快就会开始找地方住。希望是伦敦。”
“He rich, then?” Grant snorted, “Shoulda’ guessed that. Looks well-heeled, don’t he?” “他很有钱，对吧？”Grant嗤笑道，“应该猜到的。他看起来很有钱，不是吗？”
“I s’pose.” “我想是吧。”
“He does. Got that good posture. Oi, let me tell you about this bloke I had round the other night…” Grant said, and began a very long and almost unbelievable story about an encounter he’d had with a fisherman (“a genuine, honest to jesus fisherman, for fuck’s sake.”) who’d done something very odd in Grant’s bathtub before making a hasty exit in the early hours of the morning. By the end of it, Remus was hunched over in the phone box, wheezing with laughter, tears streaming down his cheeks. “他确实有。姿势很好。喂，让我告诉你我前几晚遇到的一个家伙……”Grant说，然后开始讲述一个非常长且几乎不可思议的故事，关于他遇到的一位渔夫（“一个真正的、诚实的、上帝保佑的渔夫，真是的。”）在Grant的浴缸里做了些非常奇怪的事，然后在清晨匆忙离开。到最后，Remus在电话亭里弯腰笑得喘不过气来，眼泪流淌。
“What’s so funny?!” James and Sirius were keen to know, when he finally emerged. “有什么好笑的？！”James和Sirius急切地想知道，当他终于出来时。
“Couldn’t possibly tell you,” Remus replied, hiccupping, “Muggle humour.” “我实在无法告诉你，”Remus回答，打了个嗝，“麻瓜幽默。”
“Reckon we ought to see how Pete’s doing?” James asked as they walked back to the house. “我们应该去看看Pete怎么样？”James在他们走回房子时问。
“Nah, you know how he is with hangovers,” Sirius replied, dark shades still firmly in place. “不，你知道他宿醉的样子，”Sirius回答，深色太阳镜依然戴着。
“All right, but we need to make sure not to leave him out,” James said, opening the garden gate, “I think he’s worried about it…” “好吧，但我们需要确保不要把他落下，”James说，打开了花园门，“我觉得他很担心这件事……”
“Yeah, yeah.” Sirius yawned. “Oi, quidditch?” “是的，是的。”Sirius打了个哈欠。“喂，魁地奇？”
“Yes!” James grinned, “Just let me change…” “是的！”James笑道，“让我换件衣服……”
“I’ll get a book, then…” Remus rolled his eyes, though he didn’t mind really. They were going to treat the weekend as a holiday, it had been decided. Real life could start on Monday. “那我去拿本书……”Remus翻了个白眼，虽然他其实并不介意。他们决定把周末当成假期。现实生活可以从周一开始。
The three boys thundered up the stairs, James slamming his bedroom door as he went in search of one of his many quidditch kits. 三个男孩雷鸣般地跑上楼梯，James在寻找他许多魁地奇装备之一时猛地关上了他的卧室门。
Remus and Sirius were a little slower, Remus和Sirius稍微慢一点，
“Brighton in August?” Remus asked quietly, now they were alone. Sirius’s face lit up, and he took off his glasses, “Brighton in August？”Remus小声问道，现在他们独处了。Sirius的脸上露出了光彩，他摘下了眼镜，
“You want me to come, then? Yeah! Cool!” “你想让我来吗？是的！太好了！”
“Of course.” Remus nodded, reaching the top of the stairs. “当然。”Remus点头道，走到楼梯的顶端。
“Hello, boys,” Mrs Potter trilled, coming out of Remus’s room. He did a double take at that - he wasn’t used to adults going into his bedroom uninvited, even though it wasn’t really his room, only a guest room. “你好，孩子们，”Potter夫人唱腔地说，走出Remus的房间。他对这一点有些惊讶——他不习惯成人未经邀请进入他的卧室，尽管这并不是真正属于他的房间，只是一个客房。
“Hello, Mrs Potter,” he replied, politely, hoping to mask his unease. “你好，Potter夫人，”他礼貌地回答，希望掩饰自己的不安。
She was carrying a pile of his laundry, which was horribly embarrassing - at St Edmund’s he’d been doing his own washing since he was ten. 她抱着一堆他的脏衣服，这让人非常尴尬——在St Edmund’s，他从十岁起就开始自己洗衣服了。
“I see Sirius was so drunk he ended up in yours, Remus,” Mrs Potter laughed, folding Sirius’s jeans over her arm. “Honestly dear, you ought to have just shoved him out.” “我看到Sirius喝得很醉，结果在你那儿，”Potter夫人笑道，把Sirius的牛仔裤叠在她的胳膊上。“说真的，亲爱的，你应该直接把他推开。”
“Oh!” Remus felt his ears turning bright red as he gaped at her from the landing. “哦！”Remus感到耳朵变得通红，他从楼梯平台上愣愣地看着她。
“Actually,” Sirius came up the stairs after him, “Remus and I prefer sharing. If that's… er. Well we’d just prefer to, ok?” “其实，”Sirius跟在他后面上楼，“Remus和我更喜欢一起睡。如果……呃。我们只是更喜欢这样，好吗？”
Mrs Potter looked at him, then at Remus, who was still blushing, but managed to splutter, “Yeah!” Potter夫人看着他，然后看着Remus，Remus还在脸红，但勉强地结结巴巴地说，“是的！”
“Well, if you like,” she nodded, slowly. “I suppose the bed’s big enough for two. Whatever makes you happy, dears.” She patted Remus gently on the shoulder, and kissed Sirius’s cheek as she passed him on her way downstairs. “嗯，如果你们喜欢的话，”她慢慢地点头道。“我想床够大，两个也可以。只要你们开心就好，亲爱的。”她轻轻拍了拍Remus的肩膀，然后在下楼时亲吻了Sirius的脸颊。
And that was pretty much that. 就这样了。
Wednesday 5th July 1978
They were permitted a longer holiday than expected - two days longer, in fact. The invitations came late Tuesday night; a note each from Dumbledore, requesting their presence at a secret location known only to James’s father, reachable only by portkey. The notes vanished as soon as they’d been read, simply dissolved away in their hands. 1978年7月5日星期三
他们被允许比预期的假期多待两天。邀请函是在周二晚上很晚才来的；每人一张来自Dumbledore的便条，请求他们到一个只有James的父亲知道的秘密地点，只能通过传送门到达。便条一读完就消失了，在他们手中简单地溶解了。
They’d all been expecting something like it, but Remus was surprised how nervous he suddenly grew. He was not the only one. He and Sirius undressed for bed in silence, and as soon as they were under the covers Sirius was clinging to him, face buried under Remus’s arm. 他们都期待着类似的事情，但Remus惊讶于自己突然变得如此紧张。他并不是唯一一个这样的人。他和Sirius默默地脱衣服上床，一旦他们在被窝里，Sirius就紧紧抱着他，脸埋在Remus的胳膊下。
“Tell me something.” He mumbled, thickly, “Anything.” “告诉我点什么。”他含糊地喃喃道，“什么都行。”
“I’m really scared about tomorrow.” Remus whispered. “It feels so real now. But I think it’s normal to be scared. I think anyone would be.” “我真的很害怕明天。”Remus低声说。“现在感觉真的很真实。但我觉得害怕是正常的。我觉得任何人都会的。”

“I’m really scared about tomorrow.” Remus whispered. “It feels so real now. But I think it’s normal to be scared. I think anyone would be.”

Sirius just made a discontented sort of grunt. Remus squeezed him and tried a different tack. “But d’you know what scares me more?”

“Hm?”

“The fact that we’re planning to move in together and neither of us can cook.”

Sirius began to laugh, and eventually they must have both fallen asleep properly. When they woke up they were still wound around each other, sweat had gathered where their bare skin pressed together, and Remus had big wide red patches all over until he’d showered.

It was a bit of a walk to the portkey, which turned out to be a bright yellow rubber duck, left in some long grass at the end of one of the fields surrounding the village. Remus didn’t mind, he liked stretching his legs now it didn’t hurt so much. 他们走了好一段路才到港口钥匙，结果是一只亮黄色的橡皮鸭，放在村庄周围田野尽头的长草里。Remus不介意，他喜欢现在不再那么疼的伸展双腿。
“Can’t believe we’re only a few miles from London,” he marvelled, looking up at the cloudless summer sky, the rolling green hillsides. “真不敢相信我们离伦敦只有几英里，”他惊叹道，抬头看着无云的夏日天空，连绵起伏的绿色山丘。
“Garden of England,” James grinned. “英格兰花园，”James笑了。
Fleamont solemnly held out the duck for them all to put their hands on. Fleamont郑重地举起那只鸭子，让他们都把手放上去。
“All got your wands?” He asked, sharply, and they each nodded, swallowing hard. Peter was sweating and looked faintly ill - Remus hoped he wouldn’t throw up until they’d arrived wherever they were going. “都拿到魔杖了吗？”他尖锐地问道，他们每个人都点了点头，艰难地吞咽着。Peter在冒汗，看起来有点病恹恹的——Remus希望他在到达目的地之前不要吐出来。
They all touched the duck, and suddenly found themselves whirling through space and time at an incredible rate. It was worse than apparating, but better than floo powder, Remus decided. 他们都触碰了那只鸭子，突然发现自己以惊人的速度在时空中旋转。Remus觉得这比幻影移形更糟糕，但比飞路粉要好。
Moments later, all five men landed in a very small, chintzy living room. The carpet was thick, soft pink, the sofas an ugly yellowish cream fake leather, and the wallpaper a hideous floral design with metallic streaks that caught the light. 片刻之后，五个人都落在了一个非常小的、俗气的客厅里。地毯是厚厚的软粉色，沙发是丑陋的黄色奶油色人造皮革，墙纸是一种可怕的花卉设计，有金属条纹在光线下闪烁。
“Fleamont?” A tall, thin, red-haired man entered just as they were picking themselves up. “Fleamont？”一个高个子、瘦瘦的红发男子就在他们站起来时走了进来。
Remus had only narrowly missed landing on the glass coffee table, which was adorned with a bowl of soapy smelling potpourri. Remus差点没摔在玻璃咖啡桌上，上面装饰着一碗有肥皂味的干花。
“Arthur!” James’s father replied, cheerfully, reaching out to shake the man’s hand. “Arthur！”James的父亲愉快地回答，伸手与那人握手。
“Sorry, Monty,” Arthur raised a finger, “But Moody would never forgive me if I didn’t follow protocol. Now, let me see… what was the nature of the last owl I sent you?” “抱歉，Monty，”Arthur举起一根手指，“但如果我不遵循规程，Moody永远不会原谅我。现在，让我看看…我最后一封猫头鹰信的性质是什么？”
“It was a thank you card,” Mr Potter replied promptly, “Effie sent Molly a few of James’s old things for Bill and Charlie.” “那是一张感谢卡，”Potter先生立即回答，“Effie给Molly寄了一些James的旧东西给Bill和Charlie。”
“Lovely.” Arthur smiled and finally returned Mr Potter’s handshake. “很好。”Arthur微笑着，终于握手。
“Boys, you remember Arthur Weasley,” Fleamont said, ushering them all forward to shake the man’s hand too. “This is my boy James, Sirius, Peter Pettigrew and Remus Lupin.” “孩子们，你们还记得Arthur Weasley吗，”Fleamont说，带着他们上前握手，“这是我儿子James，Sirius，Peter Pettigrew和Remus Lupin。”
“Hello there, what’s this?” Arthur was looking at the duck portkey, which Remus was still clutching. “你们好，这是什么？”Arthur看着Remus仍然握着的鸭子港口钥匙。
“Er. A rubber duck.” Remus replied, looking down at it. “呃，一只橡皮鸭。”Remus低头看着它回答。
“I see, I see, and what’s it for?” Arthur advanced on him, peering down at the yellow plastic toy with earnest curiosity. “我明白，我明白，那是干什么用的？”Arthur向他靠近，带着认真的好奇心低头看着黄色塑料玩具。
“Er… it’s just a rubber duck,” Remus shrugged. “D’you want it?” He held it out. Arthur beamed at him, taking it. “呃…这只是只橡皮鸭，”Remus耸耸肩。“你要吗？”他把它递了出去。Arthur对他笑了，接过了它。
“Better not tell Molly! She thinks I’m mad already.” “最好别告诉Molly！她已经觉得我疯了。”
Remus smiled, politely, privately thinking that Molly must be right. Remus礼貌地笑了笑，心里暗想Molly一定是对的。
“How is Molly?” Fleamont asked, “And the boys? Twins, did I hear?” “Molly怎么样？”Fleamont问，“孩子们呢？我听说是双胞胎？”
“Yes, three months old now,” Arthur nodded happily, “I did wonder if we ought to stop at five, but Molly’s keen to try for a girl; poor thing’s rather outnumbered, as things are.” “是的，现在三个月大了，”Arthur高兴地点点头，“我确实想过我们是不是应该停在五个孩子，但Molly很想要个女孩；可怜的她现在人数上还是少。”
As he spoke, he led them out of the hyper-feminine living room, down a narrow hall and into a tiny kitchen, which had a conservatory built onto the back. Frank and Alice were in the kitchen, lining up a queue of mugs on the counter. 他说话时，他带他们走出了过于女性化的客厅，穿过狭窄的走廊，进入一个小厨房，厨房后面有个温室。Frank和Alice在厨房里，把杯子排成一排。
“Hello!” Alice smiled, “Tea?” “你好！”Alice微笑着问，“要喝茶吗？”
She took everyone’s orders, while Frank divvied up tea leaves in various teapots, and they were all told to go through to the conservatory for the meeting. 她记下了大家的订单，Frank则把茶叶分到不同的茶壶里，他们都被告知去温室开会。

“Whose house is this, dad?” James asked. “这是谁的房子，爸？”James问。
“Best we don’t know too much,” Mr Potter replied, “Come on, now, they’ll all be waiting.” “最好我们不要知道太多，”Potter先生回答，“走吧，他们都在等着呢。”
After the shadowy gloom of the narrow 1930s kitchen, the conservatory was blindingly bright and extremely warm. It had a clean terracotta tile floor, covered over with a homespun rag rug. The surrounding windows were glass and displayed an immaculately kept garden which had a double swing set and a slide; the roof was clear perspex and smattered with old dead leaves leftover from winter. There was a strong smell of fertiliser and geranium, potted plants were dotted about the place on shelves and end tables. 穿过阴暗狭窄的1930年代厨房后，温室显得异常明亮和温暖。地板是干净的赤陶瓷砖，上面铺着自制的布毯。周围的窗户是玻璃的，展示着一个保存完好的花园，里面有一套双人秋千和一个滑梯；屋顶是透明的有机玻璃，点缀着冬天留下的旧枯叶。有一种浓烈的肥料和天竺葵的气味，盆栽植物散布在架子和边桌上。

 

After the shadowy gloom of the narrow 1930s kitchen, the conservatory was blindingly bright and extremely warm. It had a clean terracotta tile floor, covered over with a homespun rag rug. The surrounding windows were glass and displayed an immaculately kept garden which had a double swing set and a slide; the roof was clear perspex and smattered with old dead leaves leftover from winter. There was a strong smell of fertiliser and geranium, potted plants were dotted about the place on shelves and end tables.
在狭窄的1930年代厨房的阴暗昏暗之后，温室明亮得刺眼且极其温暖。地板是干净的红土砖，覆盖着自制的旧地毯。周围的窗户是玻璃的，展示了一片精心维护的花园，里面有一套双人秋千和一个滑梯；屋顶是透明的有机玻璃，撒满了冬天遗留下来的旧枯叶。空气中有强烈的肥料和天竺葵的气味，花盆植物点缀在架子和边桌上。

Remus didn’t notice any of these things at first, because the room was packed full of people. There must have been twenty or thirty witches and wizards, gathered solemnly around a large wooden table, or else standing, or crammed into the wicker garden furniture in the corner. Hagrid loomed largest - Remus had never seen Hagrid anywhere but Hogwarts, which was so big that it sort of compensated for the gamekeeper’s gargantuan proportions. In this hot little sun room he barely seemed real.
一开始，Remus没有注意到这些东西，因为房间里挤满了人。那里一定有二三十个巫师，严肃地围坐在一张大木桌周围，或者站着，或者挤在角落里的藤制花园家具中。Hagrid最显眼——Remus从未在霍格沃茨以外的地方见过Hagrid，霍格沃茨很大，某种程度上弥补了这位猎场看守的巨型体型。在这个小小的阳光房里，他几乎不显得真实。

There were other recognisable faces; the Prewett twins, Mad-eye Moody, Professor Ferox, Ted Tonks, Emmeline Vance and Dorcas Meadowes - no Dumbledore, but to Remus’s delight, Lily, Mary and Marlene were huddled in one corner, looking awfully young and shy in such a crowd. They greeted the boys with an eager kind of relief. Mary clung to Remus’s neck very tightly.
还有其他熟悉的面孔；Prewett双胞胎，Mad-eye Moody，Ferox教授，Ted Tonks，Emmeline Vance和Dorcas Meadowes——没有Dumbledore，但让Remus欣喜的是，Lily，Mary和Marlene挤在一个角落，看起来在这样的群体中非常年轻和害羞。她们热情地迎接男孩们，显得松了一口气。Mary紧紧抱住Remus的脖子。

“You’re here!” He said, surprised.
“你们来了！”他惊讶地说。

“I never was that bright,” she smiled ruefully.
“我从来不那么聪明，”她苦笑着说。

“Remus!” Marlene reached for him, “This is Danny!”
“Remus！”Marlene伸手招呼他，“这是Danny！”

A tall man stood just behind her. He had Marlene’s smile; her ruddy cheeks and straw coloured hair.
一个高个子男子站在她身后。他有着Marlene的微笑；她红润的脸颊和稻草色的头发。

“Oh, hello,” Remus nodded, suddenly shy himself. Sirius took a sideways step closer, so that they were shoulder to shoulder,
“哦，你好，”Remus点了点头，突然感到有些害羞。Sirius侧身靠近，让他们肩并肩站在一起，

“Hi!” Danny said, grinning. He had a fresh scar creeping up from under the collar of his robes, but nothing on his face; not yet. He extended a hand for Remus to shake, “I’ve been looking forward to meeting you, I owe you such a--”
“嗨！”Danny笑着说。他脖子下方有一道新伤疤，但脸上没有任何伤痕；还没有。他伸出手与Remus握手，“我一直期待见到你，我欠你一个--”

“Danny McKinnon!” James suddenly burst out. Having finally greeted Lily sufficiently, he’d only just caught sight of this awkward meeting. He strode forward, “Can I just say that you are absolutely, without a doubt, the best Beater the Cannons have ever had?!”
“Danny McKinnon！”James突然喊道。终于向Lily打了足够的招呼，他才刚刚注意到这次尴尬的见面。他大步上前，“我能不能说你绝对是火箭队有史以来最棒的击球手？！”

Danny laughed amiably,
Danny友好地笑了，

“Thanks. I hear you’re a bloody good Chaser - it is James Potter?”
“谢谢。我听说你是个非常出色的追球手——是James Potter吗？”

“Yes, and I’d love to--”
“是的，我很乐意--”

“Hate to break up the social club, gents,” Moody barked, “But we’ve some business to get down to.”
“不想打断你们的社交活动，伙计们，”Moody粗声粗气地说，“但我们有一些事务要处理。”

That shut everyone up, and they gathered around the table looking very serious. They began with a few introductions, though one way or another most people knew each other. When Sirius’s name was spoken there was a bit of hushed murmuring, but he just stared defiantly back at them all. Remus was proud of him - let them all see that you could never judge a book by its cover, or a man by his name.
这让大家都安静了，他们围绕着桌子，神情严肃。虽然大家或多或少都认识，但他们还是开始了几次介绍。当提到Sirius的名字时，有些低声的议论，但他只是 defiantly地盯着大家。Remus为他感到自豪——让他们看看，你永远无法以貌取人，或以名字来判断一个人。

After that, someone read minutes from the last meeting - Remus didn’t understand any of it. They all seemed to talk in a strange, grown up sort of code, and no one stopped to explain things like they did at school. Lots of names were mentioned; people in different corners of the country who were on their side - or who had gone over to the other side. Various policies being pushed through the Wizengamot, ways to influence votes; how to convince people to come around to the Order’s way of thinking.
之后，有人读了上次会议的记录——Remus一点也听不懂。他们似乎都在用一种奇怪的成人代码说话，没有人像在学校时那样停下来解释。提到了许多名字；全国各地的支持他们的人——或者已经转向对方的人。各种政策正在推动通过Wizengamot，影响投票的方式；如何说服人们接受订单的思维方式。

Remus dared glance over at Sirius, James and Peter, and was relieved to see that they were just as puzzled as he was. Then the list of missing was read, and everyone followed that all right. Alice proposed a minute’s silence, which they all observed.
Remus敢于瞥了一眼Sirius、James和Peter，感到欣慰的是他们和他一样困惑。然后念出了失踪人员的名单，大家都听得很清楚。Alice提议默哀一分钟，他们都遵守了。

There were some more updates - everyone wanted to know what Dumbledore was up to, what progress he had made. Progress with what, exactly, Remus had no clue. Assignments were also handed out - Frank and Alice needed to be in Anglesey every night next week at 6pm exactly. A man called Shacklebolt had to meet ‘our mutual friend’ ‘you know where’ on Friday. The Prewett twins were on the rota for guarding this location or that. Everyone nodded along as Moody singled them out.
还有一些更新——大家想知道Dumbledore在忙什么，取得了什么进展。具体进展是什么，Remus不知道。还分配了任务——Frank和Alice下周每晚6点必须在Anglesey。一个叫Shacklebolt的男人周五要去见“我们的共同朋友”，“你知道在哪里”。Prewett双胞胎负责守卫这个地点或那个地点。大家在Moody点名时都点头表示同意。

Finally, Moody called an end to the discussion.
最后，Moody宣布讨论结束。

“Those who have to go, go,” he said, gruffly, “I’ll send word via the usual channels for our next meeting. Anyone needs to speak to me now, you’ll have to wait a bit.” He clambered to his feet, hands on the table.
“有事要走的就走，”他说，声音粗哑，“我会通过常规渠道通知下次会议的时间。现在有人需要和我说话的话，你们得等一会儿。”他爬到桌子上站起身来。

Suddenly, the little conservatory was no longer silent and solemn, as everyone began chattering with the person next to them, furtively agreeing things, or else just catching up. Remus blinked. That was it?! He frowned, and looked for Mr Potter, who was pushing his way around the room to them,
突然，温室不再是寂静而严肃的场景，大家开始和旁边的人喋喋不休，偷偷达成协议，或者只是聊天。Remus眨了眨眼。这就结束了？！他皱起眉头，寻找Mr Potter，Mr Potter正在穿过房间走向他们，

“Come with me and Hagrid,” he said to their group, “You too, ladies, we’ll get you all up to speed, eh?”
“跟我和Hagrid来，”他说对他们的团队，“你们也是，女士们，我们会让你们了解最新情况的。”

Remus relaxed, finally. Thank goodness for that. It was deeply unpleasant, feeling so out of the loop. He felt incredibly young and naive.
Remus终于放松了。真是太感谢了。感觉被排除在外非常不愉快。他感到自己非常年轻和幼稚。

“Not you, lad,” Alastor Moody had reached them too, and clapped a chapped calloused hand on Remus’s shoulder. “Ferox and I need a word. And you, McKinnon - Daniel, that is.” He added, to answer Marlene’s startled expression.
“不是你，小子，”Alastor Moody也走到他们面前，拍了拍Remus的肩膀。“Ferox和我需要谈谈。还有你，McKinnon——Daniel，就是你。”他补充道，回答Marlene惊讶的表情。

Remus’s eyes widened and he silently pleaded to Sirius for help, only for Ferox to join them all, laughing,
Remus的眼睛睁大了，他默默地向Sirius寻求帮助，结果Ferox加入了他们，笑着说，

“Don’t look so jumpy, Lupin, I promise we’re not going to torture you.”
“别这么紧张，Lupin，我保证我们不会折磨你。”

Remus laughed weakly, accepting his fate. He and Danny followed Moody and Ferox out of the conservatory back into the house; through the poky kitchen and along the corridor, up the brown carpeted staircase, which creaked heavily underfoot.
Remus虚弱地笑了，接受了自己的命运。他和Danny跟随Moody和Ferox离开温室回到房子里；穿过狭小的厨房，沿着走廊，走上棕色地毯的楼梯，楼梯在脚下发出沉重的吱吱声。

They entered a small box room, evidently a child's bedroom. There was a small bed in the corner with a stars and spaceships pattern on the duvet. The furniture was small and painted pale blue, and there were glow in the dark stars on the ceiling.
他们进入了一个小小的房间，显然是一个儿童卧室。角落里有一张小床，床单上印有星星和宇宙飞船的图案。家具很小，涂成淡蓝色，天花板上有夜光星星。

“Sit down, chaps,” Ferox nodded at the little bed. Danny and Remus obeyed. Moody stood. Towering over them both, his electric blue eyeball whirring in its socket.
“坐下，伙计们，”Ferox点了点小床。Danny和Remus照做了。Moody站着，高耸在他们两人之上，他的电蓝色眼球在眼窝里嗡嗡作响。

“No prizes for guessing what we want to talk about.” He said.
“你们不用猜也知道我们要谈什么。”他说。

Remus said nothing, because he didn’t think an answer was required, but Danny did.
Remus没有说话，因为他认为不需要回答，但Danny说了。

“The werewolves.”
“狼人。”

“Right.” Ferox said, sitting in a small desk chair, leaning forward on his knees.
“对。”Ferox说，坐在一把小书桌椅上，向前倾在膝盖上。

He was as handsome as he had ever been, in Remus’s opinion. Still a broad, amiable ‘man of action’. His golden blond mane of hair was as lustrous as when Remus was fourteen, only maybe with some grey streaks now. An old, comfortable warmth bubbled in the pit of Remus’s stomach - a crush he had never even recognised at the time, which felt so innocent now. He smiled, finally, feeling a bit more at ease.
在Remus看来，他依然如往常一样英俊。仍然是一个宽广、和蔼的“行动派”。他的金色长发依旧光泽如Remus十四岁时那样，只是现在可能带有一些灰白色的条纹。Remus的胃里涌起一种旧而舒适的温暖——一种他当时甚至没有意识到的暗恋，现在感觉如此纯真。他终于微笑了，感觉稍微放松了一些。

“I’m not sure how I can help,” Danny was saying, “I never met one until that night.” He shuddered slightly.
“我不确定我能帮上什么忙，”Danny说，“直到那晚我才见过一个。”他微微颤抖了一下。

“But Lupin here has,” Moody said, fixing both eyes on Remus.
“但Lupin见过，”Moody说，目光紧紧盯着Remus。

“You have?” Danny’s eyes flicked over Remus, taking him all in with surprise.
“你见过？”Danny的目光扫过Remus，带着惊讶的神情打量着他。

Remus knew what Danny saw, obviously; it was what everyone saw, a skinny, gawky eighteen year old with a too long neck and scrubby blond curls and knobbly knees and so many scars. He swallowed, feeling like a stupid kid in a room full of men.
Remus知道Danny看到的是什么，显而易见；那是大家都看到的，一个瘦弱、笨拙的十八岁少年，脖子太长，头发蓬乱，膝盖关节突出，还有许多伤疤。他咽了咽口水，感觉自己像是在一群男人中间的愚蠢孩子。

“Yeah, I have.” He said, looking at his hands. “Two members of Greyback’s pack, Livia and Castor.”
“是的，我见过。”他说，低头看着自己的手。“Greyback的两个手下，Livia和Castor。”

“Greyback?!” Danny said in hushed awe. “Bloody hell.”
“Greyback？！”Danny低声惊叹道。“真是该死。”

“Remus isn’t new to this sort of operation.” Ferox said. He sounded proud, but Remus looked up at him, beseeching, because yes he was, he was absolutely new to all of this - spying and secret meetings and warfare. He didn’t like this feeling. Everyone was expecting a lot.
“Remus对这种操作并不陌生。”Ferox说。他听起来很自豪，但Remus抬头看着他，恳求地，因为他确实是，他对这一切都是全新的——间谍活动、秘密会议和战争。他不喜欢这种感觉。大家对他有很高的期望。

“I just talked to them.” He said. “They don’t hurt me because Greyback told them not to, I think. They do everything he says, they’re loyal.”
“我只是跟他们谈过。”他说。“他们不伤害我，因为我觉得Greyback告诉他们不要这样做。他们听从他的一切指示，他们很忠诚。”

“Like an army.” Ferox said, nodding, as if he understood. Remus gave him a long stare.
“像一个军队。”Ferox说，点头表示理解。Remus长时间盯着他。

“No.” He said, “Like a family.”
“不是。”他说，“像一个家庭。”

“They’re a dangerous cult.” Moody said, sharply. “I don’t care what we call it. We need to keep an eye on them. Insight.”
“他们是一个危险的邪教。”Moody尖锐地说。“我不在乎我们怎么称呼它。我们需要密切关注他们。洞察力。”

“So what do you want us to do?” Remus asked, straightening his back. He felt more himself. Ferox was still looking at him, but with real respect now.
“那么你们想让我们做什么？”Remus问，挺直了背部。他感觉自己恢复了状态。Ferox仍然看着他，但现在带着真正的尊敬。

“Yeah, what can we do?” Danny asked.
“是啊，我们能做什么？”Danny问。

 

Notes:Lyrics are from Don't Fear the Reaper by Blue Oyster Cult.

So in the UK we don't really 'graduate' from school, we're just 'school leavers'. You don't get called a graduate until you get a degree. No ceremony, and until pretty recently, no prom!

 

Chapter 152: The War: Infiltration 

Whatever happened to

All of the heroes?

All the Shakespeare-os?

They watched their Rome burn.

Whatever happened to the heroes?

Whatever happened to the heroes?

No more heroes any more

No more heroes any more

 

Monday 17th July 1978

 Remus travelled to Diagon Alley alone for the first time via muggle transport. Well; he actually apparated a lot of the way, but caught the tube two stops just to make it look convincing. Moody had forbidden him from using the Potters’ floo connection in case he was followed, and Remus agreed.  

Remus 第一次通过麻瓜交通工具独自前往对角巷。实际上，他在大部分路程中使用了瞬间移动，但为了让人相信他是通过麻瓜交通工具到达的，他坐了两站地铁。穆迪禁止他使用波特家的壁炉通道，以防被跟踪，雷穆斯同意了。

 

He entered the alley via the brick wall by the Leaky Cauldron, and headed straight for the pub. Danny was inside, waiting for him, nursing a tumbler of firewhisky. He smiled sheepishly at Remus,  

他从破釜酒吧旁边的砖墙进入了对角巷，直接向酒吧走去。丹尼在里面等着他，手里拿着一杯火焰威士忌。他不好意思地对雷穆斯笑了笑，

 

“Needed some dutch courage.”  

“需要点荷兰勇气。”

 

“Know the feeling.” Remus nodded, grimly. He ordered the same from the hunchbacked innkeeper.  

“我懂那种感觉。”雷穆斯点了点头，严肃地说道。他向驼背的酒保点了一样的酒。

 

They moved away from the bar and found a quiet corner. Remus cast muffliato for good measure. They exchanged pleasantries, briefly - Marlene had begun training at St Mungo’s and was enjoying it, Danny wasn’t doing much of anything.  

他们离开了酒吧，找到一个安静的角落。雷穆斯施了一个沉默咒以防万一。他们简短地寒暄了一下——玛琳开始在圣芒戈医院接受训练，并且很喜欢这份工作，而丹尼则没做什么特别的事。

 

“I’ve got savings, obviously; I’m not exactly hard up,” he sighed, “The Cannons paid pretty well, I could retire if I wanted. Just didn’t expect to this early.”  

“我有积蓄，显然；我并不缺钱，”他叹了口气，“坎农队的薪水不错，如果我想的话，可以退休。只是没想到这么早就遇到这种事。”

 

Remus didn’t know what to say, because the idea of having a job at all still seemed too distant for him. The older man kept stealing glances at Remus’s scars, too. “Sorry,” he said, when he was caught staring, “I just… you know. Never seen…”  

雷穆斯不知道该说什么，因为对他来说，有工作这个想法还是太遥远了。那位年长的男子也不停地偷看雷穆斯的伤疤。“对不起，”他被抓到盯着看时说，“我只是……你知道的。没见过……”

 

“I know.” Remus replied, trying to relax a bit. He swallowed the last of his whisky and pulled out his cigarette case. “It’s fine. Do you have…?”  

“我知道。”雷穆斯回答道，试着放松一下。他喝下了最后一口威士忌，掏出香烟盒。“没事的。你有……？”

 

“Only one or two.” Danny replied. “S’pose I’ll get more. Oh, and the bite, obviously.” His eyes darted around as he said this, in case anyone was listening in.  

“只有一两个。”丹尼回答道。“我想我会再拿一些。哦，还有那次咬伤，显然。”他说这话时四处张望，以防有人在偷听。

 

“Of course.” Remus nodded, lighting his cigarette and inhaling desperately. “Do you know who did it?”  

“当然。”雷穆斯点点头，点燃了香烟，急切地吸了一口。“你知道是谁干的吗？”

 

“What’s it matter?”  

“那又有什么关系？”

 

“It might,” Remus shrugged, “I think it’s important to them, anyway. I think the one who turns you… they have a connection to you, afterwards. You might recognise their scent. They might recognise yours.”  

“可能有关系，”雷穆斯耸耸肩，“我觉得对他们来说这很重要。我认为咬你的人……他们和你有某种联系。你可能会认出他们的气味。他们可能也会认出你的。”

 

Danny wrinkled up his nose in disgust.  

丹尼厌恶地皱起了鼻子。

 

“How’d you learn all this stuff?”  

“你是怎么学到这些的？”

 

“Some of it’s just experience. Some of it from books. Have you read anything?”  

“有些是经验，有些是书上的。你读过什么吗？”

 

“No.” Danny looked away, “Never been one for reading. At St Mungo’s they said not to bother, anyway. Not like there’s a cure.”  

“没有。”丹尼转过头去，“从来不喜欢读书。在圣芒戈医院，他们说别浪费时间，反正没有治愈的方法。”

 

“No,” Remus frowned, somehow bothered by this line of reasoning, “No, there’s not a cure, but… well there are still things to learn. It’s not just a disease, you know, it’s who we are.”  

“没有，”雷穆斯皱眉，显然对这种理由感到不满，“没有治愈的方法，但是……还有东西可以学。它不仅仅是一种疾病，你知道的，它是我们的一部分。”

 

“S’not who I am.” Danny said, fiercely, his fist clenched on the table.  

“这不是我。”丹尼激烈地说，握紧了拳头放在桌子上。

 

Remus looked away too, embarrassed. Danny wasn’t ready for this, he realised. He was still in denial. Danny raised an arm, signalling to Tom at the bar for another drink. Remus wondered how many he’d had already. It seemed rude to ask; Danny was older than him, had been in the Order longer.  

雷穆斯也转过头去，感到尴尬。他意识到丹尼还没准备好，他仍在否认中。丹尼抬起手臂，向酒吧的汤姆示意再来一杯酒。雷穆斯想知道他已经喝了多少。问这个似乎不太礼貌；丹尼比他年长，在凤凰社的时间也更长。

 

“So.” Danny said, business like, “What’s the plan? Go in, ask questions?”  

“那么。”丹尼商务般地说道，“计划是什么？进去，问问题？”

 

“I don’t think so…” Remus said, carefully. God, Danny definitely wasn’t ready. “I think we need to be more… um… subtle.”  

“我不这么认为……”雷穆斯小心地说。天啊，丹尼肯定还没准备好。“我觉得我们需要更加……嗯……微妙一点。”

 

“We want them to know who we are.”  

“我们希望他们知道我们是谁。”

 

“They’ll know who we are the second we walk in. The scent.”  

“他们一进门就会知道我们是谁。气味。”

 

“Ugh.” Danny wrinkled his nose again and downed his next drink.  

“呃。”丹尼再次皱了皱鼻子，喝下了下一杯酒。

 

“Look, why don’t you stay here?” Remus tried, “Honestly, I’ve done this sort of thing before, I’ll be fine. I can send you a signal, if I get into trouble.”  

“听着，你为什么不留在这里？”雷穆斯试图劝说，“老实说，我以前做过这种事，我会没事的。如果我遇到麻烦，我可以给你发信号。”

 

Danny shook his head.  

丹尼摇摇头。

 

“Promised Ferox and Moody I’d do it.”  

“我答应了费洛克斯和穆迪我会去做。”

 

“They won’t know, I won’t tell them.” Remus pressed, “Really, it’s fine, if you’re not comfortable, they shouldn’t make you---”  

“他们不会知道的，我不会告诉他们。”雷穆斯坚持，“真的，没关系，如果你不舒服，他们不应该强迫你——”

 

“I said I can do it!” Danny slammed his fist down on the tabletop.  

“我说我可以做！”丹尼把拳头重重地拍在桌子上。

 

Remus had a strange desire to start growling. It would be so much easier to settle this as wolves; he could just assert himself as the leader, and Danny would have to submit or get a cuff round the ear. He settled for just meeting Danny’s eye and holding it, sternly. It had the desired effect.  

雷穆斯有种奇怪的冲动，想要开始咆哮。作为狼来解决这个问题会简单得多；他可以直接自信地作为领导，丹尼不得不服从，否则就会挨耳光。他决定只是严厉地与丹尼对视，这样效果很好。

 

“Sorry.” The quidditch player said, sighing, tense shoulders

 

 now sloping down, wearily. “I’m just wound up, with the moon coming on Thursday.”  

“对不起。”那位魁地奇选手叹了口气，紧张的肩膀现在垂了下来，显得疲惫。“我只是有点紧张，星期四月亮就要来了。”

 

“I understand.” Remus said, evenly. “But you’ve got to keep it together in there, ok?”  

“我理解。”雷穆斯平静地说道。“但你必须在里面保持冷静，明白吗？”

 

“Yeah. Ok.” Danny nodded. He paused, giving Remus an appraising look, “Marls said you were the cleverest kid in the year.”  

“嗯。好的。”丹尼点了点头。他停顿了一下，打量了雷穆斯一眼，“玛尔斯说你是那一年里最聪明的孩子。”

 

Remus felt his ears turn red.  

雷穆斯感觉耳朵有些发红。

 

“Hardly,” he said.  

“哪有。”他说。

 

“She trusts you, though. I think I’d better too.” Danny had submitted. Remus straightened his back, a flush of animal pride running through him.  

“不过，她相信你。我想我也应该相信你。”丹尼妥协了。雷穆斯挺直了背脊，一股动物的自豪感涌上心头。

 

“Thank you,” he nodded. “Ok, so they’ll know us when we go in. The scent - I know you don’t like it, but I swear, it’s one of the most useful skills you have now, so don’t ignore it, all right?”  

“谢谢你，”他点头说道。“好吧，他们一进门就会认出我们来。气味——我知道你不喜欢，但我发誓，这是你现在最有用的技能之一，所以不要忽视它，好吗？”

 

“It’s confusing, though.” Danny said, sounding frustrated, “Half the time I don’t know what it is I can… smell.”  

“不过这很让人困惑。”丹尼说，声音里带着挫败感，“一半时间我不知道我能……闻到什么。”

 

“What about me?” Remus asked, “Could you identify me?”  

“那我呢？”雷穆斯问，“你能识别出我吗？”

 

Danny looked at him, quietly, concentrating. His nostrils twitched slightly. He nodded.  

丹尼安静地看着他，集中注意力。他的鼻孔微微抽动了一下。他点了点头。

 

“Good!” Remus said, a bit excited now - he’d never had anyone else to talk to about this before, “It’s like… like something familiar, isn’t it? Something you know really well. You’ll get better at distinguishing different scents, as long as you stop trying to ignore it. I find that if I relax it’s much easier - hardly any work at all, really, it just comes naturally after a while.” Then he remembered something else that Danny ought to know, though he wasn’t sure how to phrase it. “Uhm… You might notice that um… females smell different too. Er. More attractive.”  

“很好！”雷穆斯说，有些兴奋——他以前从未有人可以讨论这些，“这就像……像某种熟悉的东西，对吧？某种你非常熟悉的东西。只要你不再试图忽视它，你会更擅长区分不同的气味。我发现，如果我放松的话，这会容易得多——几乎不需要任何努力，真的，过一段时间它就会自然而然地来。”然后他想起丹尼还应该知道其他的事情，尽管他不确定怎么表达。“呃……你可能会注意到……女性的气味也会不同。呃，更吸引人。”

 

“Right.” Danny nodded again, paling a bit.  

“对。”丹尼再次点头，有些脸色苍白。

 

Remus looked down, cleared his throat, and resumed.  

雷穆斯低下头，清了清喉咙，继续说道。

 

“And the ones I’ve met? The ones in Greyback’s pack? They’re strong. They have really powerful magic, they don’t even need wands all the time. So it’s best not to make a move, because it won’t be like duelling - they’re hard to predict.”  

“还有我遇到的那些呢？灰背狼群中的那些？他们很强大。他们有非常强大的魔法，甚至不需要总是用魔杖。所以最好不要贸然行动，因为这不像决斗——他们很难预测。”

 

“Merlin.” Danny breathed.  

“梅林。”丹尼轻声说道。

 

“Don’t worry.” Remus said, briskly, “They won’t try to fight us. I don’t think they will, anyway. It wouldn’t make sense; they want to recruit us.”  

“别担心。”雷穆斯简洁地说道，“他们不会试图和我们打架。我认为他们不会这样做。没有意义；他们想招募我们。”

 

Danny snorted derisively.  

丹尼嗤之以鼻。

 

“Fat chance.”  

“没戏。”

 

“Try to be understanding, though.” Remus said, “Listen to them - we want them to think we’re interested, right?”  

“不过，尽量理解一下。”雷穆斯说道，“听他们说——我们希望他们认为我们感兴趣，对吧？”

 

“Right. Of course. Except we’re not.” Danny was looking at him oddly again.  

“对，当然。只是我们并不感兴趣。”丹尼再次以奇怪的目光看着他。

 

“Obviously not.” Remus snapped. “But we’re still there to make friends. We’re there to talk, which means first we have to listen.”  

“显然不是。”雷穆斯厉声说道。“但我们仍然要去交朋友。我们去那里是为了交谈，这意味着我们首先得倾听。”

 

“That’s not the impression I had from Moody.” Danny said, “This is reconnaissance, not a peace mission.”  

“我从穆迪那里得到的印象不是这样。”丹尼说道，“这是侦查任务，不是和平任务。”

 

“Well Moody doesn’t know anything about it.” Remus said, “Danny, listen to me. Stop thinking they’re your enemies, because they’re not. The one who bit you - he was wrong, ok? He ought to be arrested, he ought to be punished. But someone bit him, once. And because of that, his whole life changed, and no one looked at him like he was the same person any more. You understand that, don’t you?”  

“穆迪对这事一无所知。”雷穆斯说道，“丹尼，听我说。别再认为他们是你的敌人，因为他们不是。咬你的人——他是错的，明白吗？他应该被逮捕，应该受到惩罚。但曾经有人咬过他。而因为那次，他的整个生活发生了变化，没人再把他当作原来的那个人看待。你明白这一点了吗？”

 

Danny was staring at the bottom of his empty glass. He didn’t answer, but Remus knew he was paying attention.  

丹尼盯着他空酒杯的底部。他没有回答，但雷穆斯知道他在认真听。

 

“They’re like us.” Remus said, firmly. “Except they’ve not been as lucky. You and me, we have people who care about us, who want to keep us safe, who know we’re more than just… just monsters. The ones we’re about to meet, maybe they never had that. Maybe Greyback was the first person who cared.”  

“他们和我们一样。”雷穆斯坚定地说道。“只是他们没有那么幸运。你和我，我们有关心我们的人，想要保护我们的人，他们知道我们不仅仅是……只是怪物。我们即将见到的那些，也许他们从未拥有过这些。也许灰背狼是第一个关心他们的人。”

 

“Person.” Danny spat, “How can you talk like that. How can you give a toss about what happens to them? How can you be so calm?!”  

“人。”丹尼吐槽道，“你怎么能这么说。你怎么能在乎他们发生什么？你怎么能这么冷静？！”

 

“I’ve been angry for long enough.” Remus replied coolly. “Now I’m ready to do something about it.”  

“我已经生气够久了。”雷穆斯冷冷地回答。“现在我准备采取行动了。”

 

They ordered one more drink, and then they left.  

他们再点了一杯酒，然后离开了。

 

Danny said he had never been to Knockturn Alley before, and of course Remus only knew it by sight - and scent. The odour of dark magic was still there; acrid smoke, sour milk. It was a dim, cobbled street with crooked lanes winding off in different directions. The shop windows were dingy and displayed diabolical assortments of dark and dangerous artefacts.  

丹尼说他以前从未去过诺克特恩巷，当然，雷穆斯只知道它的外观——以及气味。黑暗魔法的气味依然存在；刺鼻的烟雾，酸臭的牛奶。这是一条昏暗的鹅卵石街道，

 

弯曲的小巷蜿蜒延伸。在黑暗的商店橱窗里展示着邪恶和危险的魔法物品。

 

The pub was easy to find. The Manticore’s Head had a horrible swinging sign hanging on a bracket outside which bore the image of a manticore’s bloody severed head on a platter. The creature had the head of a man, but a thick lion’s mane. Its eyes rolled upwards and its mouth gaped in a silent moan of misery. It made Remus shudder. It looked like Ferox.  

酒吧很容易找到。曼提科尔的头外面挂着一个可怕的摇摆招牌，上面画着一个曼提科尔的血腥断头放在托盘上。那生物有人的头，却有着浓密的狮子鬃毛。它的眼睛向上翻，嘴巴张开，发出无声的痛苦呻吟。这让雷穆斯打了个寒颤。它看起来像费罗克斯。

 

He went in first, Danny more happy to follow than lead. He pushed the door open and the moment he crossed the threshold he caught the scent. It hit him like a wall, igniting him, making every hair stand deliciously on end.  

他先进去，丹尼更愿意跟在后面而不是领头。他推开门，一踏入门槛，他就闻到了气味。它像墙一样撞击了他，点燃了他，让每根汗毛都愉快地竖了起来。

 

Five werewolves. He knew each one before he laid eyes on them. Three gathered around a table in the far corner. Two at the bar. There were others there too; creatures Remus had heard of, but never seen. A vampire. Two banshees. A whole gang of goblins.  

五只狼人。他在看到他们之前就知道了每一个。三只聚集在远处角落的桌子旁。两只在酒吧前面。还有其他生物；雷穆斯听说过的，但从未见过。一个吸血鬼。两个女妖。还有一整群地精。

 

Danny was tense behind him, Remus willed him to calm down; it was so obvious. But there was nothing they could do now but go in; Remus heard the door bang shut behind them.  

丹尼在他身后紧张得不得了，雷穆斯希望他能冷静下来；这很明显。但现在他们除了进去别无选择；雷穆斯听到门在他们身后咣当一声关上了。

 

It was fairly dark inside; the windows covered with threadbare velvet curtains. The mahogany wall panelling and countertops were grimy, covered in a strange sticky dust that glistened in places like glitter. Behind the bar were enormous mirrors covered with shelves and shelves of bottles, each one a different size, shape and colour, glowing in the firelight like a wall of jewels. The fire roared, but it was strangely cool.  

里面相当昏暗；窗户被褴褛的天鹅绒窗帘遮盖着。红木墙板和台面都很肮脏，覆盖着奇怪的粘性灰尘，在某些地方像闪光一样闪烁。在酒吧后面是巨大的镜子，镜子上摆满了各种大小、形状和颜色的瓶子，像一面宝石墙一样在火光中发光。火焰咆哮着，但却显得异常寒冷。

 

Remus approached the bar, as casually as he could manage. The figure standing behind it was heavily robed, hood pulled low, so that Remus couldn’t see its face.  

雷穆斯尽量装作随意地走向酒吧。站在酒吧后面的身影穿着沉重的长袍，兜帽拉得很低，以至于雷穆斯看不清他的脸。

 

Moody’s haggard, pitted face curved into a wicked grin.
Moody那张憔悴的面孔露出狡黠的笑容。

“Ever heard of Knockturn Alley?”
“听说过Knockturn Alley吗？”

“Two firewhiskies, please.” He said, instantly regretting the politeness. He’d spent too much time at the bloody Potters’.  

“来两杯火焰威士忌。”他说，立刻后悔了这种礼貌。他在该死的波特家里待得太久了。

 

The bartender turned around, and reached for a bottle. Remus fumbled in his robes for change. Danny joined him, standing close, looking around himself furtively.  

酒保转过身，拿起一瓶酒。雷穆斯在长袍里摸索着找零钱。丹尼也靠近他，站得很近，偷偷地环顾四周。

 

The two werewolves at the bar were watching them both. That was to be expected, of course; that was what they wanted. All part of Moody’s plan - Remus and Danny were invaluable to the Order, he said. A boy who’d been turned by Greyback himself; who Greyback was interested in, and a man who’d been recently turned, who the others would see as vulnerable.  

酒吧里的两只狼人正注视着他们。这是可以预料的；这正是他们想要的。都是穆迪计划的一部分——雷穆斯和丹尼对凤凰社来说不可或缺，他说。一个被格雷巴克亲自变成狼人的男孩；格雷巴克感兴趣的，还有一个最近被变成狼人、其他人会认为他很脆弱的男人。

 

Remus nodded at them, carefully. Danny didn’t move a muscle, but that was ok - it was clear that Remus was the leader. The other two nodded in return. Remus sensed curiosity, but not danger. He straightened up, more confident.  

雷穆斯小心翼翼地点了点头。丹尼没有动一根手指，但没关系——很明显雷穆斯是领导者。另两只也回以点头。雷穆斯感到的是好奇，而不是危险。他挺直了身体，显得更有自信。

 

They were male, both roughly the same height, only an inch or so shorter than Remus. One was stocky, with dirty blond hair, a square jaw, fairly handsome under any other circumstances. The other was one of Greyback’s. His hair was shaved close to his skull, he had a thick scar on one cheek, and of course the tattoos covering his arms and throat, spiralling moon phases.  

他们是男性，个子大致相同，比雷穆斯矮了大约一英寸。一个体格健壮，脏金色的头发，方形的下巴，在其他情况下还算英俊。另一个是格雷巴克的手下。他的头发剃得很短，一只脸颊上有一道粗大的伤疤，当然还有覆盖手臂和脖子的纹身，呈螺旋状的月相。

 

Glancing over these two men’s shoulders, Remus tried to get a read on the three in the corner. Two of them were female, one male, all Greyback’s. No Livia or Castor, which was a relief.  

雷穆斯透过这两个人的肩膀瞥了一眼角落里的三个人。他们中有两个女性，一个男性，都是格雷巴克的手下。没有莉维亚或卡斯托，这让他松了口气。

 

The whiskies arrived, and Remus knocked his back, maintaining eye contact with the two werewolves at the bar - or at least the one who belonged to Greyback. Danny followed suit. Greyback’s man inclined his head slightly, considering, and then extended a hand. He had long, thick fingernails, black with filth. Remus shook it.  

火焰威士忌上来了，雷穆斯一饮而尽，与酒吧里的两只狼人——或者说至少是格雷巴克的手下——保持眼神接触。丹尼也效仿。格雷巴克的手下微微点了点头，考虑了一下，然后伸出手。他的指甲又长又厚，黑乎乎的。雷穆斯握了握他的手。

 

“Welcome, brothers.” The man said, shaking Danny’s hand too. Danny was visibly horrified by this, but Remus thought it probably just came across as nerves. And who could blame him. “I am Gaius. Come and sit with us.”  

“欢迎，兄弟们。”那人说，同时握住了丹尼的手。丹尼明显对这一点感到恐惧，但雷穆斯觉得这可能只是紧张罢了。谁能怪他呢。“我是盖乌斯。来和我们坐在一起吧。”

 

Remus glanced back at Danny, who nodded, and they both followed Gaius over to the table in the corner. The seats looked like ancient church pews, and they were just as uncomfortable to sit on. Remus tried to subtly maneuver himself beside Danny, but Gaius slipped between them, splitting them up. There was nothing to be done; Remus just hoped that Danny knew when to apparate.  

雷穆斯回头看了看丹尼，丹尼点了点头，于是他们俩跟随盖乌斯来到角落的桌子旁。座位看起来像古老的教堂长椅，坐上去也一样不舒服。雷穆斯试图巧妙地挪到丹尼身旁，但盖乌斯却从他们之间溜过，将他们分开了。没有办法；雷穆斯只能希望丹尼知道什么时候使用隐形术。

 

The scent of all of them gathered together was overwhelming and exciting. Remus felt alert, full of energy - but also very safe, almost comfortable. It was no wonder werewolves were so easy to recruit, he thought. People spent their whole lives in search of a feeling like this; it was a feeling he knew well. He’d had it ever since the marauders became animagi. Pack. Family. Home.  

他们聚集在一起的气味是压倒性的和令人兴奋的。雷穆斯感到警觉，充满了能量——但也非常安全，甚至感到舒适。他想，难怪狼人如此容易招募。他们整个人生都在寻找这样的感觉；这是他很熟悉的感觉。他自从淘气包们成为了动物形态变形者后就一直拥有这种感觉。群体。家庭。家园。

 

“Brother, sisters,” Gaius was saying, “This is Jeremy,” he gestured at the fair haired, handsome man he’d been talking to at the bar. “And these two are…”  

“兄弟们，姐妹们，”盖乌斯说道，“这是杰里米，”他指了指那个在酒吧里和他交谈的金发英俊的男人。“这两个是……”

 

“Daniel.” Danny said, stiffly. He drank from his glass, eyes darting around. He kept looking at the women, and Remus knew why. Gaius nodded agreeably, then looked at Remus expectantly.  

“丹尼。”丹尼僵硬地说道。他喝了口酒，眼睛四处游移。他不断看向那些女人，雷穆斯知道原因。盖乌斯同意地点了点头，然后期待地看着雷穆斯。

 

“Remus Lupin.” He replied, steadily.  

“雷穆斯·卢平。”他稳稳地回答道。

 

The atmosphere shifted, the two women leaned in closer, eyes glittering, teeth bared in what might have passed for a smile.  

气氛发生了变化，那两个女人靠得更近了，眼睛闪烁，露出可能算作笑容的牙齿。

 

“Remus Lupin.” Gaius said. “The cub who attacked our brother Castor and our sister Livia.”  

“雷穆斯·卢平。”盖乌斯说道。“那个攻击了我们兄弟卡斯托和我们姐妹莉维亚的幼崽。”

 

“I defended myself.” Remus said, raising his chin. Any sign of weakness would be exploited.  

“我是在自卫。”雷穆斯说道，抬起下巴。任何表现出弱点的迹象都会被利用。

 

“We were under the impression that Remus Lupin has made his choice.” One of the women said, her voice low and rasping.  

“一直以为雷穆斯·卢平已经做出了他的选择。”其中一个女人说道，声音低沉而沙哑。

 

“I wanted to complete my studies. I’ve finished school, now,” Remus said, reasonably, “I’m exploring my options.”  

“我想完成学业。我现在已经毕业了，”雷穆斯理智地说道，“我在探索我的选择。”

 

The two women continued to glare at him, clearly not believing a word he said. But Gaius raised his hand.  

两个女人继续怒视着他，显然不相信他的话。但盖乌斯举起了手。

 

“Our father is forgiving and generous,” he said, smiling, “He welcomes all of his children.”  

“我们的父亲宽容大度，”他说，带着微笑，“他欢迎所有他的孩子。”

 

“Brother,” one of the women said, “He is not to be trusted! He is Dumbledore’s lapdog!”  

“兄弟，”其中一个女人说道，“他不值得信任！他是邓布利多的走狗！”

“He was elevated by Greyback himself .” Gaius snapped, sharply, turning his head and twitching his left hand, turning the wrist. The woman who had spoken up went rigid, suddenly, eyes wide, as if she was gripped by some enormous pain. “So hold. Your. Tongue.” Gaius said, turning his wrist again.  

“他是被格雷巴克亲自提拔的。”盖乌斯尖锐地说道，转过头来，抽动左手，转动手腕。刚才发言的女人突然变得僵硬，眼睛睁得大大的，好像被某种巨大的痛苦困住了。“所以闭上你的嘴。”盖乌斯说道，再次转动手腕。

 

The woman relaxed, breathing hard. They could all hear her heart thumping. Remus felt sick.  

那女人放松了，喘着粗气。他们都能听到她的心跳。雷穆斯感到恶心。

 

Gaius smiled around the table.  

盖乌斯在桌子周围微笑。

 

“Brothers,” he said to the three new recruits, “Our father, Fenrir Greyback, welcomes you into his pack. We have been shut out, like you, we have been denied shelter, friendship, protection. Our father would return these things to you - and much more.”  

“兄弟们，”他对三位新成员说道，“我们的父亲，芬里尔·格雷巴克，欢迎你们加入他的团队。我们曾像你们一样被排斥，失去了庇护、友谊和保护。我们的父亲将这些东西还给你们——还有更多。”

 

“How?” Remus asked, hoping his voice sounded pleasant and inquisitive.  

“怎么做？”雷穆斯问，希望自己的声音听起来既愉快又好奇。

 

Gaius gave him a look. Remus returned it. It was strange. He knew that the thing to do - the correct thing to do for the mission, for his safety and for the other werewolves, was to lower his head, to look subservient, stay quiet. He had to get them to trust him.  

盖乌斯给了他一个眼神。雷穆斯回望了他。这很奇怪。他知道该怎么做——为了任务，为了自己的安全和其他狼人，正确的做法是低下头，显得顺从，保持安静。他必须让他们信任他。

 

But he couldn’t do it. Maybe it was nerves, or the strength of their scent and their power so close to him, or maybe it was just that old Lyall Lupin belligerence, but Remus found himself doing exactly the opposite. He held high head higher, taking advantage of how much taller he was than the others, even seated. He made clear eye contact and said,  

但他做不到。也许是紧张，或是他们的气味和力量如此接近，或者只是那种老派的莱尔·卢平的好斗性格，但雷穆斯发现自己恰恰做了相反的事。他昂起头，利用自己比其他人高的优势，即使坐着也如此。他做出了明确的眼神接触，说道，

 

“I just wanted to know how Greyback plans to provide us with shelter, friendship and protection.”  

“我只是想知道格雷巴克打算怎么给我们提供庇护、友谊和保护。”

 

“You will see, in time.”  

“你会看到的，随着时间的推移。”

 

“Right, well that’s not very convincing.” Remus shrugged, “Sounds to me like a lot of promises, but not much of a plan, what do you two think?” He looked at Danny and Jeremy, the blond man.  

“好吧，那不太让人信服。”雷穆斯耸了耸肩，“听起来像是很多承诺，但没有什么具体计划，你们怎么看？”他看向丹尼和那个金发男人杰里米。

 

Danny just stared at Remus, looking appalled. Jeremy, unaware of what was going on, shrugged,  

丹尼只是盯着雷穆斯，看起来很震惊。杰里米则不知道发生了什么，耸了耸肩，

 

“I don’t care how he does it, as long as he does. Got nowhere else to go, my folks kicked me out.”  

“我不在乎他怎么做，只要他做到就行。我没有其他地方去，我的父母把我赶出了家。”

 

“What if you did have somewhere to go, though?” Remus said, quickly, “What if there was a safe place, and you didn’t have to pick any sides in the war--?”  

“那如果你真的有地方去呢？”雷穆斯快速说道，“如果有一个安全的地方，而你不必在战争中选择任何一方——？”

 

“Remus Lupin, you are confused.” Gaius said, raising his voice. “No such place exists for us. The humans have made it perfectly clear.”  

“雷穆斯·卢平，你很困惑。”盖乌斯提高了声音。“我们没有这样一个地方。人类已经明确表示了。”

 

“The… the humans,” Remus said, carefully, thinking fast, “They’re in the wrong, I agree with you - The Ministry of Magic needs reforming - but change can only happen if--”  

“那……那些人类，”雷穆斯小心翼翼地说道，快速思考，“他们是错的，我同意你的观点——魔法部需要改革——但变化只能发生在——”

 

“They are not interested. They are only concerned with murdering our brothers and sisters; locking us up, suppressing the wolf.”  

“他们不感兴趣。他们只关心谋杀我们的兄弟姐妹；把我们关起来，压制狼性。”

 

“And what exactly is Greyback going to do about that?” Remus persisted.  

“那格雷巴克到底会怎么做呢？”雷穆斯坚持问道。

 

He knew why Danny’s pulse was racing; why he kept raising his eyebrows at Remus desperately over Gaius’s shoulder, but Remus couldn’t think about that now. It sounded like madness, pushing Gaius like this when he was clearly giving off danger signs, but it was almost as if Remus couldn’t stop himself.  

他知道为什么丹尼的脉搏在加速；为什么他不断在盖乌斯的肩膀上绝望地抬起眉毛，但雷穆斯现在不能考虑这些。这样推动盖乌斯听起来像是疯狂，尤其是当他明显发出危险信号时，但几乎就像雷穆斯无法阻止自己一样。

 

“When you meet my father.” Gaius growled, “You will understand.”  

“当你见到我的父亲时。”盖乌斯低声咆哮道，“你会明白的。”

 

“I’d like to meet him.” Remus said, keenly.  

“我很想见见他。”雷穆斯热切地说道。

 

Gaius’s lips curled,  

盖乌斯的嘴唇勾起了，

 

“There will be time for that. When you have proved yourself.” He looked at the others, “When you have all proved yourselves, you will earn the right to call him father.”  

“那时候会有机会的。等你们证明自己。”他看了看其他人，“当你们都证明了自己时，你们就会获得称呼他为父亲的权利。”

 

“And how do we do that?” Remus asked, leaning forward, keen to keep Gaius’s attention on him. He knew Danny would never join the werewolves, but this Jeremy kid - he was in real danger.  

“那我们怎么做呢？”雷穆斯前倾身子问道，热切地保持盖乌斯的注意力在他身上。他知道丹尼永远不会加入狼人，但这个杰里米小子——他确实很危险。

 

Gaius’s whole posture had changed; he seemed larger, his shoulders broader, he frowned at Remus.  

盖乌斯的姿态完全改变了；他看起来更高大，肩膀更宽广，他对雷穆斯皱起了眉头。

 

“Three full moons spent with the pack,” he said, eyes blazing with intensity.  

“和团队一起度过三个满月，”他说，眼睛中闪烁着强烈的光芒。

 

“Great,” Remus nodded, “Yes, ok, I’d love to meet him, can we do that? Can you tell me where--”  

“太好了，”雷穆斯点了点头，“是的，好吧，我很想见见他，我们可以做到吗？你能告诉我在哪里——”

 

Pain shot through him, excruciating, burning; his bones were melting, his skin was bubbling, he wanted to cry out, but his jaw locked. Gaius’s eyes bore into Remus’s, furious, and suddenly Remus could hear him; hear Gaius’s voice inside his head.  

剧烈的痛苦袭来，灼烧般的疼痛；他的骨头在融化，皮肤在起泡，他想呼喊，但下巴却紧锁。盖乌斯的眼睛愤怒地盯着雷穆斯，突然雷穆斯能听到他；听到盖乌斯的声音在他脑海里。

 

Remus Lupin you are a fool.  

雷穆斯

 

·卢平，你是个傻瓜。

 

It purred  

它低声说道

 

My father wishes you to live, but only you. You will be obedient, or I will kill everyone in this room. I will kill…  

我父亲希望你活下来，但只有你。你必须听话，否则我会杀了房间里所有的人。我会杀……

 

Remus felt a strange, sifting feeling inside his mind, and knew what Gaius was doing. He tried to resist, but the pain was such a distraction, he hadn’t the strength. Gaius alighted on something he’d found, his eyes lit up maliciously,  

雷穆斯感到脑海中出现了奇怪的筛选感，知道盖乌斯在做什么。他试图抵抗，但痛苦的分心使他没有力气。盖乌斯发现了他找到的东西，眼睛恶意地闪亮，

 

I will kill... James Potter and Lily Evans… and Peter, and Marlene and Mary and... I will kill Sirius Black...   

我会杀……詹姆斯·波特和莉莉·埃文斯……还有彼得、玛琳和玛丽……我会杀死天狼星·布莱克……

 

A surge of fury rose up in Remus and it was enough - only just enough, only barely - to break away from Gaius’s fierce grip on his mind and body. He roared, lashing out with his arms and legs, because his thoughts were too muddled to do anything else. Shaking his head, as if to rid himself of Gaius’s wicked voice, he lunged at the other werewolf, forcing him back against the pew, half on top of him, wrapping his hands around his throat and squeezing.  

愤怒的激流涌上雷穆斯的心头，这足以——仅仅足以——从盖乌斯对他心灵和身体的猛烈控制中挣脱出来。他咆哮着，挥舞着手臂和腿，因为他的思绪过于混乱，无法做其他事情。他摇着头，仿佛要摆脱盖乌斯那邪恶的声音，他猛扑向另一个狼人，把他压回长椅上，半个身子压在他身上，双手绕到他的脖子上，紧紧地掐住。

 

The other three werewolves - Greyback’s werewolves - all tried to move, but Remus was so full of anger and violent emotion that he barely needed to think and they were locked in place.  

另外三个狼人——格雷巴克的狼人——都试图移动，但雷穆斯充满了愤怒和暴力情绪，几乎不需要思考，他们便被锁在了原地。

 

“Is this what you mean by proving myself, Gaius?” He hissed, squeezing harder, so that the other man’s face was turning red, veins bulging in his temples. “Have I earned your fucking respect now?!”  

“这就是你说的证明自己吗，盖乌斯？”他咝咝地说道，更用力地掐住，让对方的脸变红，太阳穴的血管突起。“我现在赢得了你的尊重了吗？！”

 

Gaius clawed at Remus desperately, but only when he was beginning to slacken and fade did Remus let go. He stepped back quickly,  

盖乌斯绝望地抓着雷穆斯，但只有在他开始松弛和褪色时，雷穆斯才放手。他迅速后退，

 

“Danny!” He said, urgently, “We have to go.”  

“丹尼！”他说，急切地，“我们得走了。”

 

They had to leave first; they couldn’t be chased out, that would look like they were running away. Oh fuck, he thought, oh fuck, why did I do that?! What was he going to tell Ferox? Moody would have his bollocks!  

他们必须先离开；他们不能被追出来，那会显得他们在逃跑。哦，该死，他想，哦，该死，为什么我这么做？我该怎么告诉费洛克斯？穆迪会揪着他的命！

 

The last thing Remus saw before he and Danny apparated was Jeremy’s horrified face.  

雷穆斯和丹尼在消失之前看到的最后一幕是杰里米惊恐的脸。

 

* * *

 

“Merlin!” Danny yelled, as soon as they were away from there. “What the fuck ?!”  

“梅林！”丹尼一离开那里就喊道，“他妈的发生了什么？！”

 

They were in a field, miles and miles outside of London. They were supposed to walk from there to a bus shelter, where Moody would be waiting for a debrief.  

他们在一个田野里，离伦敦有好几英里。他们应该从那里走到一个公交车站，穆迪会在那里等着进行简报。

 

“I’m sorry,” Remus panted, shaking his head, “I got -- I lost my temper.”  

“对不起，”雷穆斯喘着气，摇了摇头，“我……我失控了。”

 

“I’ll bloody say!” Danny ranted, “Wouldn’t have let you have all that firewhisky if I knew you were going to flip your shit and try and take on Greyback’s whole army single-handed!”  

“我会他妈地这么说！”丹尼咆哮道，“如果我知道你会发狂并试图单枪匹马对抗格雷巴克的整个军队，我才不会让你喝那些火焰威士忌！”

 

“That was not his whole army.” Remus replied sourly, wiping sweat from his brow. He was still buzzing from the agony Gaius had put him through.  

“那不是他的全部军队。”雷穆斯苦涩地回答，擦去额头上的汗水。他仍在经历盖乌斯带给他的痛苦的余波。

 

“And that wasn’t the bloody mission, was it?!” Danny retorted, “Subtle, you said! Just listen to them, you said!”  

“那不是他妈的任务，对吧？！”丹尼反驳道，“你说要低调！说只要听他们的就行！”

 

“I realised that wasn’t going to work,” Remus tried to explain, “They’re a pack; you have to dominate the leader, you need to show them--”  

“我意识到那样行不通，”雷穆斯试图解释，“他们是一个团队；你必须主宰领导者，你需要展示给他们看——”

 

“You sound like them!” Danny said, suddenly.  

“你听起来像他们！”丹尼突然说道。

 

“What?”  

“什么？”

 

“You! All of your ‘special skills’ crap. You want to be like that, do you? No better than a pack animal? A fucking beast?!”  

“你！你所有的‘特殊技能’废话。你想变成那样吗？不比一只包围的动物强？一个他妈的野兽？！”

 

Remus stared at him. He didn’t know what to say, he was too giddy, his thoughts were a mess.  

雷穆斯盯着他。他不知道该说什么，他太兴奋了，思绪一片混乱。

 

“Look.” He said, trembling, “Let’s just find Moody.”  

“听着。”他说，颤抖着，“我们还是去找穆迪吧。”

 

“Right.” Danny agreed, still red-faced, “Sooner we do, sooner I can get away from you .”  

“好。”丹尼同意道，脸色仍然发红，“我们越快做到，我就能越早远离你。”

 

Remus didn’t reply, just started walking. His head hurt so much, a migraine building behind his eyes, the bright summer sunshine was like daggers after the gloom of The Manticore’s Head. His mind was running a mile a minute. How would he explain this? How could anyone hear it and trust him ever again? What worried him most was that his first instinct was to lie.  

雷穆斯没有回答，只是开始走路。他的头疼得厉害，眼睛后面出现了偏头痛，明亮的夏日阳光在《曼提科头》的阴郁之后如同利刃。他的思绪飞速运转。他该如何解释这一切？怎样才能让人相信他？最让他担心的是，他的第一反应是撒谎。

 

Danny was walking faster than him, but then he hadn’t just had his mind ripped apart by a… oh fuck. Was Danny right? Was Remus just like them, deep down?  

丹尼走得比他快，但他刚刚没有经历心灵的撕裂……哦，该死。丹尼说得对吗？雷穆斯在内心深处真的和他们一样吗？

 

They reached the bus shelter - long abandoned, covered in yellow pollen and sprayed on graffiti. Moody was waiting, punctual as always. He looked at them both, blue eye whirring wildly between them.  

他们到达了公交车站——长期被遗弃，覆盖着黄色花粉和喷涂的涂鸦。穆迪在等着，像往常一样准时。他看了看他们俩，蓝色的眼睛在他们之间急速转动。

 

“What went wrong?” He asked, at once.  

“发生了什么问题？”他立刻问道。

 

Remus looked at Danny. Danny looked at Remus, then down at his feet. Remus swallowed, and bit the bullet.  

雷穆斯看了看丹尼。丹尼看了看雷穆斯，然后低头看着自己的脚。雷穆斯吞了吞口水，硬着头皮说道。

 

“I made a mistake.” He said. “I let my temper get the better of me.”  

“我犯了个错误。”他说。“我让自己的脾气失控了。”

 

Moody looked at him for a long time. He was completely inscrutable, and though Remus knew Moody wasn’t actually reading his mind - he knew how that felt, now - he felt as though he was being picked slowly apart all the same.  

穆迪盯着他看了很长时间。他完全无法揣测，虽然雷穆斯知道穆迪实际上没有读他的脑袋——他现在知道那种感觉——但他感觉自己像是被慢慢剥离。

 

“Tell me everything, lad.” Moody said, finally.  

“把一切告诉我，小伙子。”穆迪终于说道。

 

Remus did his best. He didn’t mention the whiskies. He didn’t mention the loss of control he’d felt, even before Gaius had hurt him. He definitely didn’t repeat anything Gaius had whispered into his brain. He told only the story Danny might have told. And it worked.  

雷穆斯尽力而为。他没有提到火焰威士忌。他没有提到他在盖乌斯伤害他之前感受到的失控。他绝对没有重复盖乌斯在他脑海里耳语的任何内容。他只讲述了丹尼可能会讲的故事。效果很好。

 

“Sounds like you acted in self defence.” Moody said, business-like, as if this sort of thing happened all the time.  

“听起来你是为了自卫。”穆迪说道，像是这种事情经常发生一样。

 

“I went too far.” Remus said. It was easy to be submissive now, to be polite and deferential to someone else. “I acted… I behaved badly. I put Danny in danger.”  

“我过头了。”雷穆斯说道。现在很容易表现得顺从，对别人礼貌和谦恭。“我行为…表现得很糟糕。我让丹尼处于危险之中。”

 

“Don’t be so hard on yourself, Lupin.” Moody said, sounding almost kind. “You were in a tight spot. You both got out of it. Do you need to see a healer? Do you know what curse it was?”  

“别对自己太苛刻，卢平。”穆迪说道，听起来几乎是善意的。“你当时处境艰难。你们都脱离了困境。你需要去看治疗师吗？你知道那是什么咒语吗？”

 

“It was wordless magic,” Remus shook his head, “And I’m ok. It wasn’t even as bad as a full moon.”  

“那是无言魔法，”雷穆斯摇了摇头，“我没事。甚至比不上一个满月的痛苦。”

 

This was a lie. He could still feel the remnants of it, his head throbbed and his nerves were vibrating. But it was going away. Pain often did, or else you just learnt to get on top of it.  

这是个谎言。他仍能感受到残余的痛苦，头疼得厉害，神经在颤动。但它正在消退。痛苦往往会消退，否则你就学会了如何应对它。

 

Moody laughed gruffly.  

穆迪粗声粗气地笑了。

 

“Good chap. Right, McKinnon, anything further?”  

“好小子。对了，麦金农，还有什么其他事吗？”

 

Danny shook his head. He hadn’t said much while Remus was explaining himself, only interjected once or twice to confirm that it was the truth. He still didn’t look at Remus, and Remus didn’t blame him. Moody, if he noticed, didn’t comment on this odd atmosphere. He clapped his hands together. “Well then, I should say we’re ok to apparate now. Lupin, I’m coming with you, got another meeting. McKinnon, you’ll be ok to get back somewhere safe?”  

丹尼摇了摇头。他在雷穆斯解释自己的情况时没说太多，只是插话确认了一两次是真的。他仍然没有看雷穆斯，雷穆斯也不怪他。如果穆迪注意到了，他并没有评论这种奇怪的气氛。他拍了拍手。“那么，我想我们现在可以瞬移了。卢平，我和你一起去，还有其他会议。麦金农，你能安全回去吗？”

 

“Yeah. No problem.” Danny replied, hollow voiced. “See you.” And began to walk away, back into the field.  

“是的，没问题。”丹尼回答，声音空洞。“再见。”然后开始离开，回到田野里。

 

Remus looked at Moody.  

雷穆斯看着穆迪。

 

“He’s angry with me. I don’t think we should pair up again like that.”  

“他对我很生气。我觉得我们不应该再这样配对了。”

 

“You won’t.” Moody said, briskly.  

“你不会的。”穆迪简洁地说道。

 

Remus’s heart sank. So that was it. Moody didn’t trust him any more. The auror began to walk in the opposite direction from Danny, across the quiet country road. Remus hurried to keep up. The ground felt weird below his feet, like sponge.  

雷穆斯的心沉了下去。就这样了。穆迪不再信任他了。那位傲罗开始朝着与丹尼相反的方向走，穿过安静的乡村道路。雷穆斯赶忙跟上。脚下的地面感觉奇怪，就像海绵一样。

 

Moody stopped abruptly, having apparently judged the shady copse of trees they were now standing in a suitable place to apparate from. He glanced at Remus,  

穆迪突然停下，显然判断他们现在站立的那片阴暗树丛是适合瞬移的地方。他瞥了一眼雷穆斯，

 

“McKinnon can’t hack it, that much is clear. We’ll have him on communications or guarding a safe house. You’ll be prepared to go it alone, next time?”  

“麦金农搞不定，这点很明确。我们会让他负责通讯或看守安全屋。你下次准备独自行动吗？”

 

“I… What?!”  

“我……什么？！”

 

“You showed them who you are, today.” Moody said, both of his eyes focused on Remus. “That's good. That’ll get back to the pack. Stir them up. We want Greyback distracted.”  

“今天你向他们展示了你是谁。”穆迪说道，他的两只眼睛都集中在雷穆斯身上。“这很好。那会传回给团队。激起他们的情绪。我们想让格雷巴克分心。”

 

“I’m not sure I understand.” Remus frowned.  

“我不太明白。”雷穆斯皱眉道。

 

“Don’t you?” Moody raised a bushy eyebrow. “I think you’re more canny than you let on, Lupin. Right, come on, I’ve an appointment with Fleamont.”  

“你不明白吗？”穆迪挑起了浓密的眉毛。“我认为你比你表现出来的更精明，卢平。好了，快点，我还有个跟弗利蒙特的约会。”

 

That was that. No more questions. In a matter of seconds they were on the Potters’ back doorstep, answering the identifying questions from Euphemia, and then everything was normal; they were back in reality, surrounded by the gentle warm familiarity of the kitchen. It was like being jolted awake from a nightmare, and you just had to keep reminding yourself everything was ok now.  

事情就这样结束了。没有更多的问题。几秒钟内，他们就到了波特家的后门，回答了尤菲米亚提出的识别问题，然后一切恢复了正常；他们回到了现实中，周围被厨房的温暖熟悉包围。就像从噩梦中惊醒，你只是不断提醒自己一切都好。

 

Moody disappeared off towards Mr Potter’s study, and James and Sirius came running through the hallway to meet Remus. Sirius looked half mad, and they stood in front of each other for a moment, wide eyes full of words. Finally Sirius came towards him, enveloping Remus in a hug and burying his head in his neck.  

穆迪消失在波特先生的书房方向，詹姆斯和天狼星跑过走廊来见雷穆斯。天狼星看起来半疯狂，他们站在彼此面前，一时间满眼言语。最后，天狼星向他走去，紧紧地拥抱雷穆斯，把头埋在他的脖子里。

 

“You’re ok.” He whispered.  

“你没事的。”他低声说道。

 

“I’m ok.” Remus said, fiercely, squeezing him back tightly. And he wanted to say

 

 it, oh god, he really really wanted to. But he had no energy left, so he just kissed him, and James was right there, and so was Mrs Potter, but it was the only thing Remus knew that could tell Sirius what he needed to tell him.  

“我没事。”雷穆斯坚定地说道，紧紧地抱住他。他想说出来，哦，天哪，他真的真的想说。但他没有力气了，于是他只是吻了他，而詹姆斯就在旁边，波特夫人也在，但这是雷穆斯知道的唯一能够告诉天狼星他需要告诉他的事。

 

He put the rage away, the terror, the guilt and the fierce need for revenge. There would be a time for it. But not yet.  

他将愤怒、恐惧、内疚和强烈的复仇欲望放在了一边。会有时候的。但不是现在。

 

Chapter 153: The War: Home Front 

Late summer, 1978

He rolled over for the hundredth time, the sheets sticking to his hot skin. He hadn’t felt right since the full moon. Maybe even since before then. He was sleeping only a few hours each night, and now it was almost four o’clock in the morning, and he hadn’t drifted off yet.

“Can’t sleep?” Sirius rolled over too.

“No.” Remus sighed, sitting up. “Sorry. I should go in the other room.”

“Please don’t.” Sirius said, rubbing his eyes, “It's fine, I’m up too now, I’ll keep you company.”

“I’m really not in the mood to talk.”

“That’s ok. I can talk, I’m always in the mood to talk.”

Remus smiled, though he didn’t want to. Bloody Black.

“Go on, then.” He murmured, lying back down slowly. His back hurt from the last full moon, and he’d rubbed some of Marlene’s ointment on there before bed, but it was wearing off already. Sirius rolled over onto his side, stretching an arm over Remus’s body and talking sleepily into his ear.

“I can’t wait for tomorrow,” he murmured, “I can’t wait for you to see the flat finally. I never had anywhere that was just mine before.”

“Me neither.” Remus replied, eyes closing.

Sirius had bought the flat the week before, while Remus was recovering from the full moon. It had been - of course - an impulse buy, but Remus thought that was ok, really - he had too much on his mind to be much help, and it was Sirius’s money, after all.

It was in London, and a muggle neighbourhood too. After the Potters’ initial surprise at the boys’ decision, Fleamont had insisted on ensuring that all of the standard security charms and alarms were in place before they were allowed to move in, so Remus hadn’t even seen it yet.

“Tell me what it’s like.” Remus said, turning into Sirius’s body, curling up. He didn’t make himself small very often - after all he was bigger than Sirius, and it seemed silly. But just now, sleep deprived and filled with anxiety, it felt nice to bury his face in Sirius’s night shirt.

“It’s small,” Sirius said, resting his chin on top of Remus’s head, “Just one bedroom, one bathroom, one kitchen.”

“Sounds massive.” Remus replied. He meant it. He’d never imagined living somewhere like that, not in a million years.

“We can have it however we want; furniture, wallpaper, anything.”

“I’ll leave the interior design up to you.”

“Fine. You can build the bookcases.”

“Bookcases?” Remus raised his head. He hadn’t thought of that.

“Yep, bookcases,” Sirius replied, a smile in his voice, “Space for the record collection too, obviously. And there are some garages nearby I might be able to rent…”

“We’re getting a car?!” Remus was a bit alarmed by this; he’d only just agreed to keep James’s old broom for travel on Order related business, he really didn’t fancy learning to drive too.

“Not a car…” Sirius said, evasively, “But I was just thinking… I mean, it would be really useful to have another means of transport.”

“There’s the tube.” Remus said, “Buses. London is actually sort of famous for them, y’know.”

“Yeah…”

“Have you already bought it?” Remus pulled away to see Sirius’s face.

“Er... “

“Sirius!”

“What?!” Sirius was grinning mischievously, “It’s an early birthday present to myself.”

“Your birthday isn’t for months!”

“Housewarming, then. I’ll get you something too!”

“Honestly,” Remus laughed, wrapping his arms around Sirius again, “You’re a liability. Spoilt brat.”

“Care home oik.” Sirius replied, laughing, his voice muffled by Remus’s shoulder.

They lay still and quiet for a little while, just like that.  

他们就那样静静地躺了一会儿。

 

Remus relaxed a bit, but he still wasn’t going to sleep. It would be light, soon, surely. Every now and then he thought he could hear a bird singing in the garden.  雷穆斯稍微放松了一点，但他仍然没有睡意。天很快就会亮了。时不时他以为自己能听到花园里有鸟儿在唱歌。Wouldn’t get that in London. Just rattling milk floats and bin lorries and buses hissing and maybe the odd pigeon.  在伦敦是听不到这些的。只有咣当作响的送奶车、垃圾车和嘶嘶作响的公交车，或许还有偶尔出现的鸽子。He couldn’t wait.  

He held Sirius a little tighter. They’d been hugging a lot, lately. Contact seemed vital; it reminded Remus he was human.

“Everything ok?” Sirius asked, quietly.

“Fine. Just can’t sleep.”

* * *

Remus had sort of expected to see his new flat for the first time alone with Sirius.  

雷穆斯本以为会和天狼星一起第一次看到他的新公寓。

 

How foolish of him; he had forgotten that even outside of Hogwarts Sirius and James came as a pair. And wherever James went, Peter and Lily typically went. So it ended up being the five of them catching the train into London the next morning.  

他真是傻了；他忘记了即使在霍格沃茨外，天狼星和詹姆斯也是一对。而无论詹姆斯去哪里，彼得和莉莉通常也会去。所以最后他们五个人第二天早上一起乘火车去了伦敦。

 

Sirius was buzzing with excitement, unable to sit still the whole way. He bounced about the carriage, ran down the escalators at Waterloo, and hopped from foot to foot on the underground platform.  

天狼星兴奋得不得了，整个路程都坐不住。他在车厢里来回蹦跳，在滑铁卢站的自动扶梯上跑来跑去，在地铁站台上脚步不停。

 

They were all in muggle clothes, and he was wearing his leather jacket, black jeans and combat boots. Remus liked to focus on these details, because if they were muggles then they weren’t at war today.  

他们都穿着麻瓜的衣服，天狼星穿着皮夹克、黑色牛仔裤和战斗靴。雷穆斯喜欢关注这些细节，因为如果他们是麻瓜，那么今天就不会在战争中。

 

The flat was off Leicester Square, in Chinatown. It was a seedy part of town, but that didn’t bother Remus, nor did it seem of any concern to Sirius.  

公寓在莱斯特广场附近的唐人街。这是一个破旧的地方，但这并没有困扰雷穆斯，似乎也不影响天狼星。

 

It was crowded and noisy, the smell of Chinese food and cigarettes and open drains permeating the air. The phone boxes were plastered with adverts for escorts, and they passed at least two peep show cinemas.  

这里人多嘈杂，空气中弥漫着中餐、香烟和下水道的气味。电话亭上贴满了陪游广告，他们经过了至少两家偷窥电影院。

 

“I love London.” Remus smiled to himself.  

“我爱伦敦。”雷穆斯对自己微笑道。

 

Sirius flashed him a grin.  

天狼星对他咧嘴一笑。

 

They entered their building through a door in the back alley of an off-licence, filing in one by one, Peter loudly remarking on how small everything seemed, and how strange muggles were.  

他们通过酒铺后巷的一扇门进入大楼，一个接一个地进入，彼得大声评论着一切看起来多么小，麻瓜多么奇怪。

 

Then up a short flight of stairs where they reached a concrete landing, with a bright yellow front door. Number 9.  

然后上了一段短短的楼梯，来到一个混凝土地板，上面有一扇亮黄色的前门。9号。

 

“Home!” Sirius said, as he jammed the key into the lock, beaming at them all.  

“家！”天狼星说着，把钥匙插进锁孔，笑着对他们说。

 

It was small. It was mundane, plainly furnished. It was basic. It was absolutely perfect.  

它很小。它很普通，布置简单。它很基本。它简直完美。

 

They stepped directly into the living room, which was very modern, with no entrance hall. There was a doorway to the left leading through to the kitchen, which was sunny and bright, a little window over the gleaming metal sink.  

他们直接走进客厅，非常现代，没有门厅。左边有一个通往厨房的门，厨房阳光明媚，闪亮的金属水槽上方有一扇小窗户。

 

Lily made a beeline for the fridge - she’d very sweetly brought a bottle of sparkling white wine to celebrate with.  

莉莉直奔冰箱——她非常贴心地带来了一瓶起泡白葡萄酒来庆祝。

 

Remus went back into the living room, and down a hallway where there were two doors - one was the bathroom - sixties green tile with pink porcelain fittings - the other was a bedroom.  

雷穆斯回到客厅，沿着走廊走，那里有两扇门——一扇是浴室——六十年代的绿色瓷砖和粉红色瓷器装饰——另一扇是卧室。

 

Two suitcases - the clothes they’d packed up and sent ahead - sat side by side by the wardrobe.  

两只行李箱——他们打包好并提前送来的衣物——并排放在衣柜旁。

 

The bed was there already, neatly made with a maroon blanket and throw. Not a four poster; no secretive dark hangings. Just a perfectly ordinary bed for two.  

床已经在那里了，整齐地铺着栗色的毯子和盖毯。不是四柱床；没有神秘的黑色帷幔。只是一个普通的双人床。

 

“Well?” Sirius asked, anxiously, entering the room behind him.  

“怎么样？”天狼星紧张地问，跟在他身后进了房间。

 

“I know it’s really muggle-ish, but I didn’t want to go overboard on the money… and it’s much easier to protect, Monty even had Moody advising on some of the shield enchantments…”  

“我知道这真的很麻瓜风格，但我不想在钱上花太多……而且更容易保护，蒙蒂甚至让穆迪建议了一些防护魔法……”

 

“It’s… great.” Remus nodded. He was so happy. He just smiled, staring around. “It’s…” there weren’t words.  

“这……很棒。”雷穆斯点点头。他很开心。他只是微笑着，四处张望。“这……”没有词语可以形容。

 

Luckily, Sirius was smiling too, watching him.  

幸运的是，天狼星也在笑着看着他。

 

“I always know it’s good when you don’t have something sarcastic to say,” he winked, “Come on, you barely looked at the living room!”  

“当你没有讽刺的话说时，我总是知道这很好，”他眨了眨眼，“来吧，你几乎没看客厅！”

 

Remus followed him back through. Lily was pouring out tumblers of sparkling white wine (“We should have got you proper wine glasses as a present!”), and they all toasted, cheering loudly.  

雷穆斯跟着他走了回来。莉莉正在倒起泡白葡萄酒（“我们应该送你们正规的酒杯作为礼物！”），他们都举杯欢呼。

 

“Mate, you’ve got to show me how that eclectic oven thing works,” James said, wide-eyed, “And the radar-eater.”  

“伙计，你得告诉我那个多功能烤箱是怎么用的，”詹姆斯瞪大了眼睛说，“还有那个雷达加热器。”

 

“Radiator.” Lily rolled her eyes, “Honestly, how did you get an Acceptable in Muggle Studies?!”  

“是散热器。”莉莉翻了个白眼，“说真的，你是怎么在麻瓜研究课上拿到及格的？！”

 

Peter was looking at the small brick fireplace, which was very out of place in the contemporary living room with its cream carpet and plastic venetian blinds.  

彼得正在看那个小砖壁炉，在这个有着奶油色地毯和塑料百叶窗的现代客厅里显得格格不入。

 

“Are you on the floo network, then?” he asked.  

“那你们在飞路网吗？”他问道。

 

“Yep,” Sirius nodded. “For Order stuff, obviously. And you lot. Moody’s made it untraceable. The whole flat is unplottable, too.”  

“是的，”天狼星点点头。“显然是为了凤凰社的事。还有你们。穆迪已经让它无法追踪了。整个公寓也是无法定位的。”

 

Remus couldn’t help feeling a bit put out by the fireplace. Even if it was essential, he didn’t like the idea that members of the order had access to their flat at any time of day or night. The thought of Alastor Moody’s head appearing in their living room made him shudder. Sirius, still watching Remus’s face carefully, gave him a nudge.  

雷穆斯不禁对壁炉感到有点不满。即使这是必要的，他也不喜欢凤凰社成员可以随时随地进入他们公寓的想法。想到阿拉斯托·穆迪的头出现在他们的客厅里让他不寒而栗。天狼星仍然在仔细观察雷穆斯的脸，轻轻推了他一下。

 

“I got something else, too,” he gestured to the couch.  

“我还有别的东西，”他示意沙发。

 

They all turned to look.  

他们都转头看去。

 

“You’ve got a telly-phone!” James suddenly yelled, almost spilling his drink in excitement as he pointed at the device sitting on an end table by the sofa.  

“你们有电话！”詹姆斯突然叫道，兴奋得差点洒了酒，指着沙发旁的桌子上的设备。

 

“Calm down!” Lily chastised.  

“冷静点！”莉莉责备道。

 

“A phone!” Remus stared at it, amazed. “Is it connected?”  

“电话！”雷穆斯惊讶地盯着它。“连上了吗？”

 

“Yep,” Sirius nodded, proudly, “Just pick it up and dial - so I don’t have to hang about outside phone boxes any more--”  

“是的，”天狼星骄傲地点点头，“只要拿起来拨号——这样我就不用再在电话亭外闲逛了——”

He was cut off, because Remus had practically knocked him over, throwing his arms around Sirius, and then - because after all, they were in their own home now, took his head in his hands and kissed him long and hard.  

他被打断了，因为雷穆斯几乎把他撞倒了，抱住了天狼星，然后——毕竟，他们现在在自己的家里，捧着他的头，长久而热烈地亲吻他。

Lily and James cheered again, Peter downed his drink and went to pour some more.  

莉莉和詹姆斯再次欢呼，彼得喝了他的酒，又去倒了一些。

* * *

“Still not in the mood to talk about it?”

“No.”

“Ok.” Sirius sighed a little. Then he moved his head against Remus’s shoulder, turning to kiss the softest part of his neck. Sirius’s hand slid down to Remus’s hip, slowly. “In the mood for anything else?”

 

“Do I look ok?” Sirius was peering at himself in the bathroom mirror. He kept buttoning and unbuttoning his shirt. “Should I wear a tie?”  

“我看起来怎么样？”天狼星在浴室的镜子里看着自己。他不停地扣上又解开衬衫的纽扣。“我应该戴领带吗？”

 

“No,” Remus laughed, standing behind him, pulling on a plain grey t-shirt over his damp hair. “Stop fussing, you look fine.”  

“不用，”雷穆斯笑着说，站在他身后，穿上一件灰色的T恤，头发还湿着。“别忙活了，你看起来很好。”

“Just fine?!”  

“只是很好？！”

“Sorry.” Remus replied, deadpan, “You look incredible.”  

“抱歉。”雷穆斯面无表情地回答，“你看起来太棒了。”

“Thank you.” Sirius smiled smugly at him through the mirror. “I just don’t want to let you down, I’ve never met anyone’s mum before.”  

“谢谢。”天狼星通过镜子得意地对他笑道。“我只是怕让你失望，我从没见过别人的妈妈。”

“What about Mrs Potter?”  

“那波特夫人呢？”

“The Potters don’t count, they’re like my own parents, I don’t need to impress them.”  

“波特家不算，他们就像我的父母，我不需要打动他们。”

“You’ll be standing next to me,” Remus shrugged on a cardigan to cover his arms, “She’ll be impressed.”  

“你会站在我旁边，”雷穆斯穿上开襟羊毛衫盖住手臂，“她会很满意的。”

“Don’t do that,” Sirius tutted, “I bet she thinks the sun shines out of your arse.”  

“别那样说，”天狼星啧了一声，“我敢打赌她认为你简直完美无缺。”

“Are you ready?”  

“你准备好了吗？”

“As I’ll ever be.”  

“尽量准备好了。”

 

They left the bathroom, making their way out of the flat. They had only been moved in for a week and a half, and there were still boxes everywhere, but it already felt like home to Remus. He loved the jangle of keys in his pocket; the sensation of closing the front door on the world; having a place to be himself completely. The cramped soho flat was nothing like as grand as Hogwarts, but already Remus liked it better than anywhere else he had ever lived.  

他们离开浴室，走出公寓。他们只搬进来一个半星期，箱子还到处都是，但雷穆斯已经觉得这里像家了。他喜欢口袋里钥匙的叮当声；喜欢关上前门时隔绝世界的感觉；喜欢有一个完全属于自己的地方。狭窄的苏荷公寓完全不像霍格沃茨那样宏伟，但雷穆斯已经比他住过的任何地方都更喜欢这里。

 

(Grant had put it best - Remus phoned him as soon as he had the chance - “A fixed address, eh? Blimey, we have moved up in the world.”)  

（格兰特说得最好——雷穆斯一有机会就打电话给他——“固定的地址，哎？天哪，我们在世界上已经上升了。”）

 

They apparated from the landing outside, which had become a habit; it was secluded enough that no one would see them. In mere moments they found themselves on a quiet residential road in Cardiff, where it was - of course - just starting to rain.  

他们从外面的楼梯间幻影移形出去，这已经成了习惯；那里足够隐蔽，没有人会看到他们。片刻之后，他们发现自己在卡迪夫的一条安静的居民街道上，当然，刚刚开始下雨。

 

“Sorry, should’ve warned you,” Remus laughed as Sirius yelped and scrambled to yank up his shirt to protect his hair, “Welsh summers aren’t much better than Scottish ones.”  

“抱歉，应该提醒你的，”雷穆斯笑着说，当天狼星尖叫着急忙拉起衬衫保护他的头发时，“威尔士的夏天并不比苏格兰的好多少。”

 

They made the short walk to the hospital quickly, and Remus led Sirius to Sparrow ward with much more confidence than that first time he’d met Hope. He smiled and gave a little wave to the nurse on duty, before walking to the end of the ward to see his mother.  

他们很快走到医院，雷穆斯比第一次见到霍普时更有信心地带领天狼星走向麻雀病房。他微笑着对值班护士挥了挥手，然后走到病房尽头去看他的母亲。

 

The curtain was drawn halfway across, so he peered around it first, to check if she was asleep. But no, she was sitting up in bed, flicking through a fashion magazine. He cleared his throat and she looked up. A huge smile spread across her thin face, showing every pearly tooth.  

窗帘拉了一半，所以他先绕过它，看看她是否睡着了。但没有，她正坐在床上，翻看着一本时尚杂志。他清了清嗓子，她抬起头来。她瘦削的脸上绽开了一个巨大的笑容，露出每一颗珍珠般的牙齿。

 

“Remus!”  

“雷穆斯！”

 

“Hi,” he said, ducking his head shyly and walking around to greet her.  

“嗨，”他害羞地低下头，走过去迎接她。

 

He kissed her lightly on the cheek. He’d done that three times now, having graduated up from her kissing his hand. Progress was slow, but every milestone felt enormous.  

他轻轻地亲了亲她的脸颊。他已经这样做了三次，从她亲他的手到现在。他们进展缓慢，但每一个里程碑都感觉巨大。

 

“I was hoping you’d come today!” She beamed, clutching his hand and looking him over as he folded himself into the orange plastic chair by her bed.  

“我希望你今天会来！”她笑着说，抓住他的手，打量着他，而他把自己折叠进床边的橙色塑料椅子里。

 

“Sorry it’s been so long,” he apologised, “I finished school, and then I moved… um. I’ve brought someone to meet you,” he glanced up at Sirius, still standing just behind the curtain, looking at Hope nervously. “Mum,” (second time he’d ever said that to her face), “This is Sirius Black.”  

“抱歉这么久才来看你，”他道歉道，“我毕业了，然后搬家了……嗯。我带了一个人来见你，”他抬眼看了一下天狼星，天狼星还站在窗帘后面紧张地看着霍普。“妈妈，”（这是他第二次当面这样叫她），“这是天狼星·布莱克。”

 

Sirius came around and stood at the end of the bed, hands in front of him. He looked like he was trying very hard not to fidget.  

天狼星走过来，站在床的尽头，双手放在前面。他看起来在努力不让自己坐立不安。

 

“Pleased to meet you, Ms Lupin,” he said, politely.  

“很高兴见到你，卢平女士，”他礼貌地说道。

 

She didn’t correct him on the name, only smiled benignly back at him,  

她没有纠正他的名字，只是和善地对他笑了笑，

 

“Hello, Sirius. Are you a friend of Remus’s from school?”  

“你好，天狼星。你是雷穆斯的同学吗？”

 

“That’s right,” he nodded.  

“是的，”他点点头。

 

“Sirius and I live together, in London.” Remus said, testing the water. He watched her face, but she was inscrutable. She could be an auror, no problem.  

“天狼星和我住在一起，在伦敦。”雷穆斯试探地说。他看着她的脸，但她无动于衷。她完全可以成为一个傲罗。

 

“Doesn’t that sound like fun,” she said, glassy eyed, “Your dad used to take me for trips to London, I loved a go on the double deckers.”  

“听起来很有趣，”她眼睛湿润地说，“你爸爸以前常带我去伦敦，我喜欢坐双层巴士。”

 

Ah. She was in the mood to talk about Lyall. These were far from Remus’s favourite visits, but he let her talk, because it seemed to make her happy. She started on a long and rambling story about all the times Lyall had taken her to London, where they’d seen all the sights, and then all of the various other places he had taken her - Edinburgh and Blackpool and Aberystwyth. Remus tried not to listen too hard. He didn’t want to start wondering whether Lyall would have taken them both to these places, if things had been different.  

啊。她有谈论莱

 

尔的心情了。这些远不是雷穆斯最喜欢的探望，但他让她说，因为这似乎让她开心。她开始讲述莱尔带她去伦敦的所有时候，他们看过的所有景点，以及他带她去的其他各种地方——爱丁堡、布莱克浦和阿伯里斯特威斯。雷穆斯尽量不听得太仔细。他不想开始思考如果事情不同，莱尔是否会带他们两人去这些地方。

 

Eventually, with Hope showing no sign of stopping, Remus gestured for Sirius to take a seat, and he dragged one over from the next bed, which was empty. As he settled in, Remus noticed the suitcase at the foot of the bed. It wasn’t usually there. Was she finally allowed to go home?  

最终，霍普没有停下来的迹象，雷穆斯示意天狼星坐下，他从隔壁的空床拖过来一把椅子。雷穆斯坐下后，注意到床脚的行李箱。它通常不在那。她终于可以回家了吗？

 

“...and I had my first ever curry in a little restaurant in Wembley…” she was saying now.  

“……我第一次在温布利的一家小餐馆吃咖喱……”她现在说着。

 

“We’re in Chinatown,” Remus said.  

“我们在唐人街，”雷穆斯说。

 

“Lovely.” She smiled, though she clearly had no idea where that was. She was growing increasingly childlike, he thought, must be the medication they had her on. It ought to have been annoying, but it actually helped him empathise with her. “And you’ll have your exam results soon, will you?”  

“真好。”她笑了笑，虽然显然不知道那是哪里。她越来越像个孩子了，他想，一定是他们给她吃的药。这本该让人烦恼，但实际上让他更能理解她。“你很快就会拿到考试成绩了，是吗？”

 

“We’ve had them,” Remus replied, “I passed everything.”  

“我们已经拿到了，”雷穆斯回答，“我全部通过了。”

 

“He came top in the school in three subjects,” Sirius said, out of the blue. “History, Care of Magical Creatures and Arithmancy - and top marks in everything else!”  

“他在三门学科中名列前茅，”天狼星突然说。“历史、神奇生物饲养学和算术——其他所有科目也都是最高分！”

 

Remus blushed. That wasn’t strictly true. Ok, he’d earned ‘Outstanding’ in most subjects, but he’d only got an ‘Exceeds Expectations’ in Transfiguration.  

雷穆斯脸红了。那并不完全属实。好吧，他在大多数科目上都得了“杰出”，但变形术只得了“超出预期”。

 

“That’s my clever boy,” she grinned dozily, “Just like his dad.”  

“那是我的聪明孩子，”她昏昏欲睡地笑着说，“就像他的爸爸。”

 

“Are you going somewhere, mum?” Remus asked, still bothered by the suitcase.  

“妈妈，你要去哪儿吗？”雷穆斯问道，仍被行李箱困扰。

 

“Oh yes,” she nodded, resting her head back against the pile of pillows propping her up, “Yes, I’m off to the hospice tomorrow.”  

“哦，是的，”她点点头，把头靠在支撑着她的一堆枕头上，“是的，我明天要去临终关怀医院。”

 

Remus’s insides turned ice cold. His throat went dry. No , he thought, no, I need more time .  

雷穆斯的内心变得冰冷。他的喉咙干涩。不，他想，不，我需要更多时间。

 

“Tomorrow?” He choked. She squeezed his hand again, her eyes sharpening,  

“明天？”他哽咽着说。她再次握紧他的手，眼神变得锐利，

 

“I’m ready, love. It’s time.”  

“我准备好了，亲爱的。是时候了。”

 

“But…” he didn’t know what to say. He thought he might cry, but he didn’t want to upset her.  

“但是……”他不知道该说什么。他觉得自己可能会哭，但他不想让她难过。

 

Sirius looked confused. He didn’t know what it meant.  

天狼星看起来很困惑。他不知道这意味着什么。

 

“I’m making sure everything’s in order,” Hope said, matter-of-factly, suddenly sounding much more mature than usual, “If you leave me your address, I’ll make sure everything ends up where it ought to. And of course the funeral - I’ve told Gethin you’re to be notified as soon as possible, and that you’re sat at the front. Don’t let them put you at the back like some poor relation. You’re my son, and I’ve no shame at all, understand?”  

“我在确保一切都井井有条，”霍普平静地说，突然比平时成熟了许多，“如果你把地址给我，我会确保所有东西都到该去的地方。当然还有葬礼——我已经告诉了格辛，会尽快通知你，并让你坐在前排。不要让他们把你安排在后面像个可怜的亲戚。你是我的儿子，我毫无羞耻之心，明白吗？”

 

“Mum, please…” Remus looked away, shocked by how distraught he felt. “I’m not… just not yet, ok?”  

“妈妈，拜托……”雷穆斯转过头，震惊于自己感到的痛苦。“我还没准备好……现在还不行，好吗？”

 

Her face softened. She sighed,  

她的脸柔和下来。她叹了口气，

 

“All right, my darling. I’m sorry.”  

“好吧，亲爱的。对不起。”

 

Who the fuck is Gethin?! He wanted to shout. How many surprises are waiting for me, after you’re gone? He’d known this was coming, but it was still the worst news of his life. He couldn’t shake the sense of betrayal. They’d only just found each other.  

格辛到底是谁？！他想大喊。你走了之后，还有多少惊喜等着我？他早就知道会有这一天，但这仍然是他一生中最糟糕的消息。他无法摆脱被背叛的感觉。他们才刚刚找到彼此。

 

Sirius grew uncomfortable in the silence that followed. He didn’t understand Hope and Remus’s shared inability to say the important things; Sirius could never see why everyone didn’t just say what they felt as soon as they felt it. But he respected their privacy, and got up,  

在随后的沉默中，天狼星变得不安。他不理解霍普和雷穆斯之间无法说出重要事情的习惯；天狼星从来不明白为什么大家不能在感觉到的时候马上说出自己的感受。但他尊重他们的隐私，站了起来，

 

“I’m going to get a cup of tea, Remus,” he said, gently, “Would you like one?”  

“雷穆斯，我去喝杯茶，”他说，温柔地，“你要一杯吗？”

 

Remus nodded,  

雷穆斯点点头，

 

“Canteen’s down the hall,” he said, staring at the floor, still holding Hope’s hand. “I’ll meet you there, in a minute.”  

“餐厅在走廊尽头，”他说，盯着地板，仍然握着霍普的手。“我一会儿去找你。”

 

“Can I get you anything, Ms. Lupin?”  

“卢平女士，你需要什么吗？”

 

She shook her head,  

她摇摇头，

 

“No thank you, dear. It was lovely to meet you.”  

“不用了，亲爱的。很高兴见到你。”

 

He inclined his head, gallantly, smiling politely - god, he could be charming in even the most desperate situations - then quickly left.  

他优雅地点点头，礼貌地微笑——天啊，即使在最绝望的情况下他也能如此迷人——然后迅速离开。

 

Remus let go of Hope’s hand, and buried his face in his palms. Fuck . Couldn’t he just enjoy something for five minutes without a tragedy?  

雷穆斯松开霍普的手，把脸埋进手掌中。该死。他就不能享受五分钟没有悲剧的时光吗？

 

“He’s a very nice young man.” Hope said, brightly.  

“他是个很好的年轻人。”霍普愉快地说。

 

“Yeah,” Remus replied, huffing a joyless laugh, rubbing the back of his head, nervously.  

“是啊，”雷穆斯回应道，苦笑了一声，紧张地揉了揉后脑勺。

 

“I can see why you like him.” She prompted.  

“我明白你为什么喜欢他。”她提示道。

 

She wanted the unpleasantness over, clearly. Perhaps she wanted to go back to talking about Lyall. Well, he wasn’t going to let her. She wasn’t the only one who could drop bombshells.  

显然，她想结束不

 

愉快的对话。也许她想回到谈论莱尔的话题。好吧，他不会让她得逞。她不是唯一一个能投下震撼弹的人。

 

He looked at her, trying to meet her eye.  

他看着她，试图与她对视。

 

“Look, there’s something I really feel like I ought to explain, er. About Sirius. About Sirius and me.”  

“听着，我真的觉得有件事我应该解释一下，呃。关于天狼星。关于我和天狼星。”

 

Hope closed her eyes with a soft smile and gently shook her head,  

霍普闭上眼睛，微笑着，轻轻摇了摇头，

 

“It’s all right, cariad ,” she took his hand and patted it, “I knew the moment I saw the two of you.”  

“没关系，亲爱的，”她握住他的手，拍了拍，“我看到你们俩的那一刻就知道了。”

 

“You… really?” Remus stared at her. He’d never talked about this with anyone older than himself before.  

“你……真的？”雷穆斯盯着她。他以前从未和比自己年长的人谈过这件事。

 

“I’ve had a feeling for a while. I won’t pretend it makes no difference at all,” she replied, choosing her words carefully, “But it doesn’t change who you are, my darling boy.”  

“我有一阵子感觉到了。我不会假装这完全没有影响，”她回答，慎重选择着措辞，“但这不会改变你的本质，我亲爱的孩子。”

 

She reached for his hand again and he held it. She stroked his knuckles softly with her thumb.  

她再次伸手，他握住了她的手。她用拇指轻柔地抚摸他的指关节。

 

“You love him, don’t you?”  

“你爱他，是吗？”

 

“I…” Remus felt the familiar panic rising at the sound of that word, but as it was just the two of them, and he felt he owed it to her to be honest, he nodded. “Yes.”  

“我……”雷穆斯听到那个词感到熟悉的恐慌，但因为只有他们两个人，他觉得自己应该对她诚实，于是点了点头。“是的。”

 

“And he loves you.”  

“而且他爱你。”

 

“I think so. Yes, he does.”  

“我想是的。他确实爱我。”

 

“That’s all I need to know, then.” She smiled again. She let out a great sigh, “Love. It’s the only thing you get to take with you, you know.”  

 

“那就够了。”她再次微笑，长叹了一口气，“爱。那是你唯一能带走的东西，你知道吗。”

 

Chapter 154: The War: Autumn 1978 

Stop your messing around (ah-ah-ah)

Better think of your future (ah-ah-ah)

Time you straighten right out (ah-ah-ah)

Creating problems in town (ah-ah-ah)

 

Remus peered over the top of his book through the cafe window to see if there had been any change in the street ahead of him. He looked at the clock on the greasy wall beside him. Five minutes to go, if Pete wasn’t running late.  
Remus透过咖啡馆的窗户从书的顶部望去，看前面的街道是否有任何变化。他看了看旁边油腻的墙上的钟。还有五分钟，如果Pete不迟到的话。
Remus looked at his book again. He hadn’t really been reading it, he was too distracted. He found himself rarely in the mood for studying, these days, between Order meetings, strange and half-explained assignments, visiting Hope in the hospice - which he tried to do every other day, now.  
Remus再次看了看他的书。他其实并没有真正读进去，他太分心了。这些天来，他发现自己很少有心情学习，在Order会议、奇怪且未完全解释的任务、以及去临终关怀医院探望Hope之间——他现在尽量每隔一天去一次。
On top of this, Remus and Sirius were learning to look after themselves for the first time. After a week of takeaways, Remus admitted defeat and asked to borrow a recipe book from Mrs Potter. Results had been mixed, so far. Sirius, meanwhile, seemed to have reached crisis point at the state of the bathroom, and dedicated several evenings to finally learning some cleaning spells.  
除此之外，Remus和Sirius正在第一次学着照顾自己。在吃了一周的外卖后，Remus承认失败并向Potter夫人借了一本食谱。目前结果参差不齐。与此同时，Sirius似乎已经无法忍受浴室的状态，花了几个晚上终于学会了一些清洁咒语。
They’d had a fight over whether or not to get a television (Sirius was bizarrely suspicious of this muggle technology; he couldn’t see the point), and then another one over the motorbike (Remus hated everything about it, but most of all the highly dangerous flying charms Sirius was attempting).  
他们曾为是否买电视争吵过（Sirius对这种麻瓜技术有着奇怪的怀疑；他看不出有什么意义），然后又为摩托车争吵过（Remus讨厌一切与之相关的东西，但最讨厌的是Sirius试图施展的那些极其危险的飞行咒语）。
Other than that, things were going pretty well. Well. As well as anyone could expect.  
除此之外，一切都进行得相当顺利。嗯。尽可能地顺利。
The clock kept ticking. Remus lifted the chipped mug of tea to his lips, drank, then grimaced. Stone cold. He’d been there an hour at least, but it wasn’t as if he had anywhere else to be.  
时钟继续滴答作响。Remus把缺口的茶杯举到嘴边，喝了一口，然后皱起眉头。冰凉。他至少在这里待了一个小时，但也不是没有其他地方可去。
Since the botched mission to Knockturn Alley back in July, Remus had noticed a clear shift in the nature of his missions. He was often paired with Peter, and generally only sent on ‘soft’ assignments - passing on messages, collecting dead portkeys - once or twice he’d been stuck making sandwiches for visitors to the Potters.  
自从七月份失败的Knockturn Alley任务以来，Remus注意到他的任务性质发生了明显变化。他经常与Peter搭档，通常只被派去执行一些“轻松”的任务——传递信息、收集失效的portkey——有一两次他被困在为Potter家的访客做三明治。
Meanwhile, Sirius and James’s fortunes had taken them in a completely different direction. They both spent much of their time with Frank and Alice, or the Prewett twins, up to all sorts of interesting things like advanced defense, guard duties, and even one or two midnight raids.  
与此同时，Sirius和James的运气把他们带向了完全不同的方向。他们大部分时间都和Frank和Alice，或者Prewett双胞胎在一起，从事各种有趣的事情，如高级防御、守卫任务，甚至有一两次午夜突袭。
Sirius was having the time of his life. Remus was miserable, but not saying so. In other words, business as usual.  
Sirius过得非常开心。Remus很痛苦，但没有说出口。换句话说，一切如常。
Finally, Remus looked up and saw movement. It was the end of the working day, and men in smart suits and hats began to fill the pavements. If you looked very closely, you could see that some of these men and women were dressed a bit less conservatively than the others. It was the end of the day at the Ministry of Magic, too.  
最后，Remus抬头看到了一些动静。工作日结束了，穿着讲究西装和帽子的男人们开始挤满人行道。如果你仔细看，你会发现这些男人和女人中的一些人穿得比其他人稍微不那么保守。魔法部的一天也结束了。
Remus got up, quickly, banging his shins on the orange plastic chair beside him. Hissing through his teeth, he limped slightly on his way out. Outside it was muggy - not sunny, but hot and sticky; headache weather. Thick, queasy storm clouds hung above the grey buildings, and a powerful reek rose up from the cafe bins, old food putrefying in the unseasonable September heat.  
Remus快速站起来，撞到了旁边橙色塑料椅子的小腿。他咬紧牙关，微微一瘸一拐地走出去。外面闷热——没有阳光，但又热又黏；让人头痛的天气。厚重的、令人不安的暴风云悬挂在灰色建筑物上方，咖啡馆垃圾桶里散发出一股强烈的臭味，旧食物在异常炎热的九月中腐烂。
Remus hung back a moment, waiting and watching, not wanting to be seen. A tall, handsome young man strode past, wearing black robes and a bottle green waistcoat. He had sharp cheekbones and platinum hair, though he was very young - Remus recognised him at once as Lucius Malfoy, the man Narcissa had risked her life to marry. Remus watched him stalk up the street, fleetingly commending Sirius’s cousin on her excellent taste.  
Remus停了一会儿，等待并观察，不想被人看到。一个高大英俊的年轻人走过，穿着黑色长袍和瓶绿色背心。他有着锐利的颧骨和铂金色的头发，虽然他还很年轻——Remus一眼就认出他是Lucius Malfoy，Narcissa冒着生命危险嫁给的男人。Remus看着他沿街走去，短暂地称赞Sirius的表妹有很好的品味。
“Oh, hello Moony,”  
“哦，你好，Moony。”
Remus jumped. Peter somehow still had the ability to take him by surprise - you almost never saw him coming.  
Remus吓了一跳。Peter不知怎么总能让他吃惊——你几乎从未见过他来。
“Christ, Pete, you scared me.”  
“天啊，Pete，你吓到我了。”
“Well if you hadn’t been perving on Malfoy’s arse--”  
“要不是你一直盯着Malfoy的屁股看——”
“Shut up.” Remus was already in a bad mood, and much too sensitive to be teased by Peter Pettigrew, of all people.  
“闭嘴。”Remus已经心情不好了，而且太敏感了，不能被Peter Pettigrew这样的人取笑。
“Didn’t expect to see you,” Peter was saying, glancing at his pocket watch and tucking it back into his trouser pocket.  
“没想到会看到你，”Peter说着，瞥了一眼他的怀表，然后把它塞回裤子口袋。
He was wearing a tweed jacket and a stupid little bowler hat, mustard coloured. He looked like an off-brand leprechaun.  
他穿着一件花呢夹克和一顶愚蠢的小圆礼帽，芥末色的。他看起来像一个山寨版的精灵。
Remus scolded himself internally, ashamed of himself for being jealous of his friend - who despite only having scooped up a handful of NEWTs had managed to walk into an entry level position in the ministry, no bother.  
Remus在心里责备自己，为嫉妒朋友而感到羞愧——尽管他只考了几个NEWTs，但却顺利地进入了魔法部的初级职位，毫不费力。
“What do you mean?” Remus frowned, “I’m on time, aren’t I?”  
“你什么意思？”Remus皱眉，“我没迟到，对吧？”
“Didn’t you get Arthur’s message?” Peter looked up at him, innocently, “Got cancelled. They sent Caradoc
.”  
“你没收到Arthur的信息吗？”Peter天真地抬头看着他，“取消了。他们派了Caradoc。”
“Oh.” Remus pursed his lips.  
“哦。”Remus抿了抿嘴。
“So we can go home!” Peter said cheerily, “Thank Godric too, I’m exhausted. Work was mayhem today, I’m rushed off my feet.”  
“所以我们可以回家了！”Peter愉快地说，“谢谢Godric，我累坏了。今天工作一团糟，我忙得不可开交。”
“Right, of course.” Remus nodded, his shoulders slumping.  
“对，当然。”Remus点了点头，肩膀垂了下来。
He hadn’t got out of bed until midday. Then all he’d done was read the papers and smoke and eat half a loaf of bread - which Sirius had bought only the morning before. This had been his longest conversation with another human being all day.  
他直到中午才起床。然后他所做的一切就是看报纸、抽烟和吃了半条面包——那是Sirius前一天早上才买的。这是他一整天与另一个人类进行的最长对话。
“Are you sure they don’t need us?” He said, hopefully, “Maybe if we went along anyway--"  
“你确定他们不需要我们吗？”他充满希望地说，“也许我们还是去一趟——”
“Best not,” Peter shook his head, “You know what Moody’s like about protocol. Anyway, I’m starving, I barely had time for lunch.”  
“最好不要，”Peter摇了摇头，“你知道Moody对规程的态度。无论如何，我快饿死了，我几乎没有时间吃午饭。”
“Really? Want to go and get something at the Leaky Cauldron?”  
“真的？想去Leaky Cauldron吃点东西吗？”
“Sorry, promised mum I’d be home. She worries, you know.”  
“抱歉，答应了妈妈要回家。她会担心的，你知道。”
“Oh. Of course.”  
“哦。当然。”
“Padfoot is at your flat, isn’t he?”  
“Padfoot在你家吧？”
“Yeah, he should be back by now.”  
“是的，他现在应该已经回来了。”
“See you at the next meeting, Moony!”  
“下次会议见，Moony！”
“Yeah, see you.”  
“嗯，回头见。”
They walked off in opposite directions, Peter heading for the nearest floo grate (he still hadn’t learnt to apparate), Remus for the nearest quiet alley he could slink into and vanish in peace.  
他们朝相反的方向走去，Peter前往最近的Floo炉格（他还没有学会幻影移形），Remus则前往最近的安静小巷，以便可以安静地消失。
He tried to cheer up a bit as he stood outside the door to his flat. He shook himself, attempted to clear his mind, forced a smile. He opened the door.  
他站在公寓门外时试图振作起来。他抖了抖自己，试图清空脑袋，强迫自己微笑。他打开了门。
“You’re back early!” Sirius’s voice trilled from the kitchen, and that was enough to throw Remus back onto his dark mood. It felt like an accusation.  
“你回来得早啊！”Sirius的声音从厨房传来，这足以让Remus重新陷入阴郁的情绪中。这感觉像是在指责他。
“Mm.” He grunted, shutting the door and pulling off his cardigan, the hairs on his arms itching and prickling in the heat. It made his scars raised too, like barbed wire.  
“嗯。”他哼了一声，关上门，脱下羊毛衫，手臂上的汗毛在热气中发痒刺痛。这也使他的疤痕凸起，就像铁丝网一样。
“What's up?” Sirius appeared. He’d showered recently, his hair still gleamed. “Something happen?”  
“怎么了？”Sirius出现了。他最近刚洗过澡，头发还在闪闪发光。“发生了什么事吗？”
Remus snorted, kicking his shoes off and flinging them under the coffee table.  
Remus哼了一声，踢掉鞋子，把它们扔到咖啡桌下。
“Nothing happened. It got cancelled. Or someone else did it. Doesn't matter anyway, it was just busy-work.”  
“什么也没发生。任务取消了。或者是别人做了。反正没关系，只是些杂事。”
“No it wasn’t.” Sirius tutted. “Why would Dumbledore give you busy-work?”  
“不是这样的。”Sirius咂了咂舌。“Dumbledore为什么会给你安排杂事？”
“Because I can’t be trusted to do anything else but they still want to keep me on side so I don’t suddenly go evil.”  
“因为他们不能信任我做其他事情，但仍然想让我站在他们这边，所以我不会突然变坏。”
“Moony…” Sirius had his hands on his hips, now.  
“Moony……”Sirius现在双手叉腰。
Remus sighed and waved a hand.  
Remus叹了口气，挥了挥手。
“Forget about it. How was your day?”  
“算了吧。你今天怎么样？”
“It was… busy. Long.” Sirius said, carefully, obviously not wanting to provoke Remus any further. “The usual stuff, you know.”  
“嗯……忙。很长。”Sirius小心翼翼地说，显然不想再激怒Remus。“老样子，你知道的。”
“I don’t know.” Remus muttered. “You get to hang around with Aurors all day. The best I get is Wormtail.”  
“我不知道。”Remus嘟囔道。“你整天和傲罗混在一起。我最好的伙伴就是Wormtail。”
“Don’t be like that.” Sirius sat beside Remus on the couch, “You’re doing plenty of useful stuff, still. And they sent you on that mission at the beginning of the summer, that was huge!”  
“别这样。”Sirius坐在Remus旁边的沙发上，“你仍然在做很多有用的事情。他们在夏初派你去执行的那个任务，那可是个大事！”
Remus didn’t say anything. He hadn’t told Sirius what had happened, how he’d lost control yet again, and how Moody clearly didn’t trust him anymore, and Danny probably hated him.  
Remus什么也没说。他还没有告诉Sirius发生了什么，他又一次失控了，Moody显然不再信任他了，而Danny可能讨厌他。
In the pause that followed, Sirius tutted.  
在接下来的沉默中，Sirius咂了咂舌。
“Look, if you’re in a mood, I’d rather just get out of your way. I haven’t had a brilliant day either.”  
“听着，如果你心情不好，我宁愿让开。我今天也过得不太好。”
“Fine.” Remus said, sharply.  
“好吧。”Remus尖锐地说。
It wasn’t fine. Part of him wanted to grab Sirius for a kiss, pull him into the bedroom, and apologise for being a dick. The other part wanted a full blown fight, with lots of shouting and swearing. Either way, he didn’t want Sirius going anywhere.  
其实一点也不好。他的一部分想抓住Sirius亲吻，把他拉进卧室，为自己的混蛋行为道歉。另一部分想要大吵一架，充满喊叫和咒骂。不管怎样，他都不想让Sirius离开。
Sirius sighed and got up.  
Sirius叹了口气，站了起来。
“Fine then.” He grabbed his keys on the way out. “Going to work on the bike,” he said. “I’ll get bread on the way back, seeing as we’ve run out again.”  
“那好吧。”他在出去的路上抓起钥匙。“去修摩托车，”他说。“我回来时会买面包，因为我们又吃完了。”
Remus grunted in response, staring at a hole in his sock, rather than meet Sirius’s eye. They’d make it all up later, they always did.  
Remus哼了一声作为回应，盯着袜子上的一个洞，而不是看Sirius的眼睛。他们稍后会和好的，他们总是这样。

* * *
The problem with not being at Hogwarts was that Remus never had any idea where anyone was. He missed the Marauder’s Map sorely and felt anxious when he pictured Sirius, James, and Peter out in the world, facing who knew what.  
不在霍格沃茨的最大问题是Remus从不知道其他人在哪里。他非常想念淘气地图，当他想到Sirius、James和Peter在外面的世界里面对未知的危险时，他感到焦虑。
It typified the way he felt about almost everything now that school was over. At Hogwarts, he had been in control; he’d had a place, a certain status. In the real world, he was nothing and nobody; back to the bottom of the deck.  
这几乎是他对现在一切事物的感觉。在霍格沃茨时，他曾经掌控一切；他有一个位置，有一定的地位。在现实世界中，他一无所有，无名无分；回到了最底层。
As a mature and educated young man, he knew that he ought to face these new challenges with fortitude; set out to prove his worth, like James and Sirius—and even Pete. But Remus didn’t. He sulked.  
作为一个成熟且受过教育的年轻人，他知道自己应该勇敢面对这些新的挑战；像James和Sirius一样证明自己的价值——甚至像Pete那样。但Remus没有。他闷闷不乐。
After the cancelled mission with Peter, there had been another long and confusing meeting with the Order, and barely anyone had glanced in Remus’s direction. Moody hadn’t been there, nor Ferox, so Remus couldn’t even go and ask them whether there had been any developments on the Greyback front.  
在与Peter的任务取消后，Order又进行了一次漫长而混乱的会议，几乎没有人看Remus一眼。Moody和Ferox都不在，所以Remus甚至无法去问他们关于Greyback方面的进展。
It was nice to see the girls—Lily was apprenticing in the potions research department at St Mungo’s, and she and Marlene had made a whole gang of new friends at the hospital. Mary was at muggle secretarial college, and—like Remus—had been unimpressed with her assignments from the Order so far.  
见到女孩们倒是很高兴——Lily在圣芒戈的魔药研究部门当学徒，她和Marlene在医院结识了一大群新朋友。Mary在麻瓜秘书学院上学，而且——和Remus一样——对Order目前给她的任务不太满意。
“S’pose they don’t want my mucky blood blowing anyone’s cover,” she rolled her eyes. He snickered. Good old Mary.  
“我想他们不希望我的脏血暴露任何人的身份，”她翻了个白眼。他偷笑。老好的Mary。
Since that meeting, Remus had spent much of his time alone. He slept in, listened to the radio, went downstairs to the corner shop to buy fags, and pretended to read. He told Sirius he was researching defensive magic, but he couldn’t see the point in studying for no reason.  
自那次会议以来，Remus大部分时间都是独处的。他睡懒觉，听收音机，下楼去街角小店买烟，假装看书。他告诉Sirius他在研究防御魔法，但他看不出无缘无故学习的意义。
Remus was sprawled on the couch one day doing the crossword in a free paper he’d picked up somewhere. Well. He wasn’t so much ‘doing the crossword’ as trying to write the most imaginative swear words he could think of into the boxes. He was stuck on twelve down, ‘_ _ _ E _ _ _ _ F’, when the phone rang.  
一天，Remus摊在沙发上做他在某处捡到的免费报纸上的填字游戏。实际上，他不是在做填字游戏，而是尽可能在格子里写出他能想到的最具想象力的脏话。他在“十二格向下，‘_ _ _ E _ _ _ _ F’”处卡住了，这时电话响了。
It made him jump; the phone never rang.  
电话铃声让他吓了一跳；电话从未响过。
“H-hello?” he said, croakily, realising it was after one o’clock in the afternoon and the first time he’d spoken.  
“喂-喂？”他沙哑地说，意识到现在已经是下午一点多，这是他今天第一次说话。
“Wotcher sweetheart.”  
“你好，亲爱的。”
“Grant?”  
“Grant？”
“Someone else calling you sweetheart? You slag.”  
“还有别人叫你亲爱的吗？你这个荡妇。”
Remus laughed, grinning ear to ear.  
Remus笑了起来，笑得合不拢嘴。
“Sarky tosser. Where have you been?”  
“讽刺的混蛋。你去哪了？”
“Here and there. Sorry, I’ve had a bit of a busy summer… er… you’re at home, then?”  
“这里那里都有。抱歉，我夏天有点忙……呃……你在家，对吧？”
“Yeah.”  
“是的。”
“Brilliant, I’m five minutes away.”  
“太好了，我五分钟后到。”
“What?!”  
“什么？！”
“See you soon!” The line went dead.  
“很快见！”电话挂断了。
Not knowing what else to do, and mildly stunned, Remus went to the bathroom quickly to check himself in the mirror. He was wearing a creased t-shirt and threw on a jumper lying on the floor to cover up his scarred forearms. His hair never seemed to change, no matter what he did, so he ran his fingers through the curls and watched them spring back into place. He wished he’d showered when he woke up that morning, but it was too late now.  
不知道该做什么，有些惊愕的Remus赶紧去浴室照镜子。他穿着一件皱巴巴的T恤，捡起地板上的一件毛衣套上，以掩盖他布满伤疤的前臂。他的头发似乎从来没有变化，无论他做什么，于是他用手指梳理卷发，看着它们弹回原位。他希望早上醒来时洗了个澡，但现在已经太迟了。
There was a knock at the door and Remus hurried to answer it, pointing his wand at the kettle as he passed the kitchen door to flick it on. His pulse quickened, and he realised how excited he was to see someone not involved in the war.  
有人敲门，Remus赶紧去开门，经过厨房门口时用魔杖指着水壶打开了开关。他的脉搏加快了，他意识到自己有多么兴奋能见到一个与战争无关的人。
He wrenched the door open harder than he needed to, so that it nearly slammed into the wall.  
他用力打开门，比需要的力度还要大，以至于门几乎撞到墙上。
“Hiya,” Grant stood in the doorway, wide-eyed but grinning, his face round and sunny as it had been at fifteen, chipped tooth and bright clothes and everything else that was right in the world.  
“嗨，”Grant站在门口，瞪大眼睛但满面笑容，他的脸像十五岁时一样圆润而阳光，缺了一颗牙，穿着鲜亮的衣服，一切都很美好。
“Hi!” Remus breathed, standing back to allow Grant entry, “I’m so happy to see you!”  
“嗨！”Remus深吸一口气，退后让Grant进来，“见到你真高兴！”
“Blimey,” Grant nudged him with his trainer as he came inside, “If I’d known I’d get this sort of welcome I’d ‘ave shown up weeks ago.”  
“哎呀，”Grant进来时用运动鞋顶了顶他，“如果我早知道会有这样的欢迎，我几周前就来了。”
He stood in the middle of the living room, hands on his hips, staring around it in awe. He let out a low whistle, “Done alright for yourself ‘ere, eh? Very nice.”  
他站在客厅中央，双手叉腰，惊讶地四处张望。他低声吹了个口哨，“你这里过得不错啊？真不错。”
“Yeah, I s’pose,” Remus rubbed the back of his head. It was a bit messy, old newspapers and half-empty mugs of tea all over the place, not to mention the overflowing ashtrays. Suddenly he was very embarrassed.  
“是的，我想是的，”Remus挠了挠后脑勺。这里有点乱，到处都是旧报纸和半空的茶杯，更不用说满溢的烟灰缸了。突然，他感到非常尴尬。
“What you got a fireplace for?” Grant chuckled, “Thought these modern flats all had central heating?”  
“你要壁炉干嘛？”Grant笑道，“我以为这些现代公寓都有中央供暖？”
“Mm.” Remus mumbled, “Cup of tea?”
  
“嗯。”Remus咕哝道，“要杯茶吗？”
“Champion.”  
“当然。”
Remus went into the kitchen and used a bit of wordless magic to hurry it all along, before bringing the mugs through to the living room, where Grant stood inspecting the bookcase. He looked so well. His clothes were clean and smart—he was even wearing a dress shirt, which had a wide floral collar and cuffs.  
Remus进了厨房，用无声魔法加快了进度，然后端着茶杯回到客厅，Grant正站在那里检查书架。他看起来很好。他的衣服干净而得体——他甚至穿着一件衬衫，带有宽大的花领和袖口。
Remus gave him his tea and did a bit of quick tidying before sitting down.  
Remus把茶递给他，稍微整理了一下，然后坐下。
“I can’t believe you’re here.” He said. Grant laughed,
“Me neither, to be honest. Been a long time, eh?”
“How was your holiday?”
“Oh, er…” Grant appeared to be blushing. His ears turned cherry red. “That was a bit of a fib… I just didn’t want to jinx anything.”
“Jinx what? What have you been doing?”
“I um. Look, don’t laugh at me, all right? I’ve been doing evening classes. You know, get my O-Levels.” He looked down.
“That’s brilliant!” Remus said. Grant looked up at him cautiously, as if waiting for the punchline.
“Better late than never, I s’pose. I had my CSE Maths exam today, over in Russell Square. Bloody difficult, but I reckon I did enough to pass. Fucking Pythagoras was a right tosser, eh?”  
「迟到总比不到好。我今天在拉塞尔广场考了CSE数学考试。真他妈难，但我觉得我应该能及格。该死的毕达哥拉斯真是个混蛋，对吧？」
Remus laughed.  
雷穆斯笑了。
“Well done, though! What brought that on?”  
“做得好！是什么促使你这样做的？”
“Want to work somewhere other than a pub, one day.” Grant shrugged, “Shagging all them students opened my eyes a bit. Don’t want to be a thicko all my life.”  
“想要有一天能在酒吧之外的地方工作。”格兰特耸耸肩，“跟那些学生上床让我开了眼。我不想一辈子当个傻子。”
“You are not thick.” Remus said, firmly, giving him a stern look.  
“你不是傻子。”雷穆斯坚定地说，给了他一个严厉的眼神。
“Well, we’ll see,” Grant waved a hand, shy again. “If I get my Maths and my English sorted - and I reckon I did ok on English too - you ought to see my spelling, it’s miles better - then I’m ‘oping I can start A-Levels in January. I wanna do psychology, I think.”  
“嗯，我们拭目以待，”格兰特挥了挥手，再次显得害羞。“如果我把数学和英语搞定了——我觉得我英语也做得不错——你得看看我的拼写，进步大了——那么我希望能在一月开始A-Level课程。我想学心理学，我觉得。”
“Psychology.” Remus said, in awe.  
“心理学。”雷穆斯惊叹道。
“Yeah,” Grant chuckled, “Ricky - that’s one of the students I was seeing - ‘e reckoned I better do Politics, but to be honest I’ve had it up to ‘ere with Trotsky. ‘E was a communist.”  
“是啊，”格兰特笑道，“里基——那是我见的一个学生——他说我最好学政治，但说实话，我对托洛茨基已经受够了。他是个共产主义者。”
“Trotsky?”  
“托洛茨基？”
“Ricky.”  
“里基。”
“Right.” Remus sipped his tea, thoughtfully. Everyone was doing things. Everyone had a direction. And here he was, just sitting by and watching, as per usual. Self-hatred rose inside him.  
“对。”雷穆斯若有所思地啜饮着茶。每个人都在做事情。每个人都有方向。而他，只是在一旁坐着观看，一如既往。自我厌恶在他心中涌起。
“So… how’s Sirius?” Grant asked, politely.  
“那么……天狼星怎么样？”格兰特礼貌地问。
“Yeah, good. He’s out just now. Um... Uni lecture.”  
“嗯，还不错。他现在出去了。嗯……上大学讲座。”
“Nice. And… your mum? How’s she?”  
“很好。那……你妈妈呢？她怎么样了？”
“Dying.” Remus grunted.  
“快死了。”雷穆斯哼了一声。
“Bummer.”  
“真是糟糕。”
Remus practically spat his tea out, laughing. Grant grinned.  
雷穆斯差点把茶喷出来了，笑了起来。格兰特咧嘴笑了。
“Oi, did ya hear about St Eddy’s?”  
“喂，你听说过圣埃迪学校吗？”
“What about it?” Remus frowned.  
“怎么了？”雷穆斯皱了皱眉。
“Shut down. Last Approved School in Britain, apparently - they’re all ‘Community Homes’ now.”  
“关停了。显然是英国最后一所经批准的学校——现在它们都变成‘社区之家’了。”
“What happened to all the boys?”  
“那些男孩都去哪了？”
“Some of them sent to Borstal. The rest got re-housed. They’re knocking it down, putting up flats instead.”  
“有些被送去了Borstal（青少年拘留所）。剩下的被重新安置了。他们正在拆除那栋楼，改建成公寓。”
“Good riddance.” Remus said, darkly.  
“再见也好。”雷穆斯阴沉地说。
“I’ll drink to that,” Grant snorted, raising his mug of tea. They chatted for a bit longer, reminiscing. Grant wasn’t seeing anyone serious, and didn’t know how much longer he’d be in Brighton. He missed London, but he knew he needed to save up more money if he wanted to move back and make a proper go of it. He was so different from the last time Remus had seen him.  
“为此干杯，”格兰特哼了一声，举起他的茶杯。他们聊了一会儿，回忆往事。格兰特没有稳定的恋人，也不知道自己在布莱顿会待多久。他想念伦敦，但知道自己需要存更多的钱才行，如果想要搬回去好好过日子。他和雷穆斯上次见面时大相径庭。
“‘Nuff about me, what about you? You at uni too?”  
“说够了我，那你呢？你也在上大学吗？”
“I’m not really doing anything.” Remus sighed. “It’s hard to get a job right now. I’ve mostly just been here.”  
“我其实没做什么。”雷穆斯叹了口气。“现在很难找工作。我主要就待在这里。”
“Lucky you’ve got this set up, eh?” Grant gestured around, picking up the cigarette box on the coffee table and shaking it. Remus nodded, and took one himself too.  
“你有这样的安排真好，”格兰特指了指四周，拿起咖啡桌上的香烟盒摇了摇。雷穆斯点了点头，也拿了一支。
“Yeah, lucky.” He said, glumly, as he lit it.  
“是啊，运气好。”他点燃香烟时说道，神情黯淡。
“You need to get out more, sweetheart.” Grant said, sounding serious.  
“你需要多出去走走，亲爱的。”格兰特认真地说。
“What?”  
“什么？”
Grant tutted, blowing smoke and looking Remus up and down.  
格兰特咂了咂嘴，吹着烟，打量着雷穆斯。
“Look at you, you miserable git. I’m not blind, y’know. Cooped up in here feeling sorry for yourself, is it?”  
“看看你，真是个痛苦的家伙。我又不是瞎子。就是窝在这里自怨自艾吗？”
“No, I--”  
“不，我——”
“Remus,” Grant sighed, shaking his head, “I’m not being ‘orrible, I’m just saying. Remember when I left St Edmund’s, and I lived in that squat?”  
“雷穆斯，”格兰特叹了口气，摇摇头，“我不是在刻薄，只是说说罢了。记得我离开圣埃德蒙学校时，住在那间废弃的房子里吗？”
“Yeah…?” Remus wished he could forget that, but it was burned in his memory. The dirty mattresses, the bare floorboards, the damp.  
“是啊……”雷穆斯希望自己能忘记，但那一幕深深地刻在了记忆里。脏兮兮的床垫，裸露的地板，还有潮湿。
“I thought it was great at first - no more school, no more matron telling me what to do, just me looking out for myself.” He shook his head, pursing his lips, “I liked running away. I done it all the time, when I was a kid. Run away from me mum, from me grandad - the prick - from anywhere people tried to keep me in. And the thing is, they always let me. Matron never called the police, mum never tried to find me. Actually, you were the only person who ever tried to track me down.”  
“最开始我觉得那很好——没有学校了，没有保姆告诉我该做什么，只有我自己照顾自己。”他摇了摇头，抿了抿嘴，“我喜欢逃跑。我从小就一直这样做。逃离我妈，逃离我那个混蛋爷爷——逃离任何想要把我困住的地方。最奇怪的是，他们总是放我走。保姆从没报警，我妈也从没试图找我。其实，你是唯一一个试图追踪我的人。”
“I…” Remus hadn’t known that.  
“我……”雷穆斯对此并不知情。
“I dunno how you did it,” Grant chuckled, scratching his chin, “Maybe you’ve got a magic wand or summink. But you found me. Twice. Thought about that a lot, over the past
 year.”  
“我不知道你是怎么做到的，”格兰特笑道，摸了摸下巴，“也许你有魔法棒什么的。但你找到了我。两次。过去一年里，我想了很多这事。”
“I just wanted to make sure you were ok.”  
“我只是想确保你没事。”
“I know ya did,” Grant smiled, softly, “That’s what amazed me. Here’s this lad - this clever, funny, posho lad - who gives a shit about me, when no one else ever did. Made me feel like someone worthwhile. So I thought I’d better do something worthwhile.”  
“我知道你这么做了，”格兰特柔和地笑道，“这就是让我惊讶的地方。这个小子——聪明、有趣、又高贵的小子——关心我，而其他人从未在意过。这让我觉得自己有价值。所以我觉得我最好也做点有价值的事。”
Remus didn’t know what to say. He put his tea down.  
雷穆斯不知道该说什么。他放下了茶杯。
“That’s why I wanted to wait ‘til my exams were all done before I saw ya,” Grant continued, “Even if I fail the lot, I wanted to tell you I’d done it, I’m trying to be better.”  
“这就是为什么我想等到考试都结束后再来看你，”格兰特继续说道，“即使我全都考砸了，我也想告诉你我已经做到了，我在努力变得更好。”
“You never needed to prove anything to me,” Remus said, earnestly.  
“你从来不需要向我证明什么，”雷穆斯认真地说。
“I know,” Grant nodded, “I did it for me, really. I did it because running away and avoiding all the stuff that made me feel like shit was pointless in the end. If you want people to think you’re worth it, you’ve got to start acting like you want it.”  
“我知道，”格兰特点了点头，“其实我做这些是为了我自己。我这么做是因为逃避和避免那些让我觉得自己很糟糕的东西最终是没用的。如果你想让人们觉得你值得，就得开始表现出你想要它的样子。”
Remus laughed humourlessly,  
雷穆斯无奈地笑了，
“Sounds like you’re already taking psychology.”  
“听起来你已经在学心理学了。”
“Been reading lots,” Grant winked, “You get what I’m telling you, then?”  
“读了很多书，”格兰特眨了眨眼，“你明白我在告诉你什么了吗？”
“Yes.” Remus sighed. Do something worthwhile. Stop moping.  
“明白了。”雷穆斯叹了口气。做些有价值的事。别再抱怨了。
“Good.” Grant said, brightly, “Cos if you’re not happy here, I’ll switch wiv ya. Nice flat, lots of books, gorgeous boyfriend…”  
“很好。”格兰特明亮地说，“因为如果你不开心，我可以和你交换。漂亮的公寓，大量的书籍，还有迷人的男朋友……”
Remus laughed again, and kicked Grant’s shin playfully,  
雷穆斯再次笑了，调皮地踢了踢格兰特的小腿，
“Shut up.”  
“闭嘴。”
“Never. Anyway, best be off, I’ve got a train to catch - I’ll be popping back in a month or so, though, s’long as I get the results I need.”  
“绝不。好了，我该走了，我还有火车要赶——不过我会在一个月左右再回来，只要我能拿到我需要的成绩。”
“You will.” Remus said confidently, “I know you will.”  
“你会的。”雷穆斯自信地说，“我知道你会的。”
“Cheers. Give me a ring soon, eh?”  
“谢谢。尽快打个电话给我，好吗？”
They hugged at the door, and Remus watched him go, hopping down the steps two at a time, whistling a pop tune.  
他们在门口拥抱，雷穆斯看着他走下台阶，一次跳下两个台阶，吹着流行歌曲的口哨。
Remus felt lighter; his cheeks ached from smiling. He closed the door and looked at the messy room. He felt like doing the washing up. Then he might nip to the shops and get something in for dinner. Sirius had been out all day; he’d like coming home to a proper meal.  
雷穆斯感到心情轻松了许多；他的脸颊因笑而酸痛。他关上门，看着那间凌乱的房间。他想洗碗。然后他可能会去商店买点东西做晚餐。天狼星整天都在外面；他会喜欢回家时能吃到一顿正经的饭。
Tomorrow, Remus could make a proper start on everything else. There was so much to do.  
明天，雷穆斯可以正式开始做其他所有事情。还有很多事要做。

 

 

 

 

Notes:Song is 'A message to you Rudy' by The Specials

So much Brit-speak in this - not to mention 1970s specific stuff:

- Trainers - sneakers/tennis shoes
- Cornershop - a convenience store, usually on the corner of a block.
- GCE O-Levels - The standard school qualification in Britain before 1988. Taken at age 16, you needed this qualification to move onto further education. Grant left school at fifteen and never sat his exams.
- A-Level - 'Advanced level' educational certificate, typically taken between the age of 16 - 18, before university.
- Approved School - basically what St. Edmund's was. A residential institution to which young people could be sent by a court, usually for committing offences but sometimes because they were deemed to be beyond parental control.
- Borstal - Youth prison. (They're now called 'young offenders' institutions'.)

 

Chapter 155: The War: Winter 1978-1979Rows and flows of angel hair

And ice cream castles in the air

And feather canyons everywhere

I've looked at clouds that way

 

But now they only block the sun

They rain and snow on everyone

So many things I would have done

But clouds got in my way

 

Saturday 23rd December 1978

He fumbled on the bedside for his glass of water, and found it empty. “Aguamenti,” he rasped, his wand hand shaking.  

他在床头摸索他的水杯，却发现杯子是空的。“水源，显现！”他喃喃地说，手中的魔杖抖动着。

 

The glass filled with water, and he gulped it down greedily. He rolled onto his back, pressing the heels of his hands into his eyes, hoping to mitigate the headache threatening to start gnawing on his brain. He turned his head slightly and addressed the lump under the duvet,  

杯子里充满了水，他贪婪地喝了下去。他翻身仰卧，手掌的跟部压在眼睛上，希望缓解即将侵蚀他大脑的头痛。他稍微转动头，问道被子下的那团人影，“你醒了吗？”

 

There was a sort of a shudder and a grunt. Remus tutted. It was too hot in the bedroom, even for December. He got up and went to the window to crack it open. He pressed his forehead against the cold glass and let the cold air wash over his hot skin.  

有一种颤抖和呻吟声。雷穆斯咂了咂嘴。即使是在十二月，卧室里也太热了。他起身走到窗边，打开了窗户。他把额头贴在冰冷的玻璃上，让寒冷的空气拂过炙热的皮肤。

 

They’d been out at the Leaky Cauldron the night before - pre-Christmas drinks. The marauders and Lily would be spending Christmas itself at the Potters, but everyone who was working had finished for the year, and Mary had suggested blowing off some steam away from the older members of the Order of the Phoenix, for once.  

他们前一晚在破釜酒吧呆过——圣诞前的饮酒聚会。麻瓜们和莉莉会在圣诞节当天去波特家，但所有工作的人都已经完成了年度工作，玛丽提议这次远离凤凰社的老成员们，好好放松一下。

 

As with most of Mary’s ideas, it was brilliant fun. Marlene came, and brought Yaz, who was visiting the McKinnons because her family didn’t do Christmas anyway. Frank and Alice popped by to say hello, and Sirius and James insisted on getting in every other round.  

像玛丽的大多数主意一样，这次聚会非常有趣。玛琳来了，还带了雅兹，雅兹正在拜访麦金农家，因为她的家人不庆祝圣诞节。弗兰克和爱丽丝来打了个招呼，天狼星和詹姆斯坚持轮流买酒。

 

After last orders, those still standing had piled into a taxi back to Remus and Sirius’s flat, where they may not have had any milk or bread in, but the bar was always fully stocked.  

最后点单后，那些还站着的人挤进了出租车，回到了雷穆斯和天狼星的公寓。虽然他们可能没有牛奶或面包，但酒吧总是备货充足。

 

Everything had been a bit of a blur, after that. Remus had a horrible feeling that he and Lily had started singing muggle Christmas Carols at some point.  

之后的一切都有些模糊。雷穆斯有一种可怕的感觉，他和莉莉在某个时刻开始唱起了麻瓜圣诞颂歌。

 

He groaned loudly, “Why did you let me drink so much?!”  

他大声抱怨道：“你们为什么让我喝这么多？！”

 

“Oi, don’t blame me!” Lily suddenly appeared, her fluffy red hair sticking up like a dandelion as she emerged from under the duvet.  

“喂，别怪我！”莉莉突然出现了，她那蓬松的红发像蒲公英一样竖起，从被子下露出来。

 

Remus jumped, whirling around. He wrapped his arms protectively around himself,  

雷穆斯吓了一跳，猛地转过身来。他保护性地把手臂环绕在自己身上，

 

“Fucking hell, Evans, what are you doing here?!”  

“天呐，埃文斯，你在这里干什么？！”

 

“Couldn’t get James to leave,” she yawned, “And I wasn’t going to sleep on the couch, they started building a fort.”  

“让詹姆斯离开不了，”她打了个哈欠，“我可不想睡在沙发上，他们开始建堡垒了。”

 

“This is the second time you’ve shown up in my bedroom unannounced, Evans, people will talk.” Remus searched for a t-shirt.  

“这是你第二次未经允许出现在我的卧室里了，埃文斯，人们会说闲话的。”雷穆斯找着一件T恤。

 

“Second time I’ve caught you in your pants too,” she laughed, “Oh get back in, you big jessy, it's still early.”  

“这是我第二次抓到你穿着内裤，”她笑道，“哦，赶紧回去，你这大懒虫，还是早呢。”

 

He did, but only because the room was cold now, and he didn’t fancy finding out what James and Sirius had done to the living room. T-shirt on, he crawled back under the duvet, and Lily wrapped her arms around his waist, her long hair tickling under his chin, like Sirius’s did. He stroked her shoulder. She was so nice and small.  

他照做了，不过只是因为房间现在很冷，而且他不想知道詹姆斯和天狼星对客厅做了什么。穿上T恤，他爬回被子下，莉莉将她的胳膊环绕在他的腰间，长发在他下巴下挠痒痒，就像天狼星的头发一样。他抚摸着她的肩膀。她如此温柔娇小。

 

“D’you reckon if I’d agreed to go out with you in fourth year this is what our life would be like?” He asked, conversationally.  

“你觉得如果我在四年级时同意跟你约会，我们的生活会是这样吗？”他随意地问道。

 

“Oh god,” she groaned, covering her eyes with her fingers, “Do you have to remind me?!”  

“哦天哪，”她呻吟道，用手指遮住眼睛，“你真的要提醒我吗？！”

 

He laughed,  

他笑了，

 

“I don’t know why you’re embarrassed, I was the oblivious one.”  

“我不知道你为什么害羞，我才是那个没注意的人。”

 

“I had such a crush on you!”  

“我对你有过那么深的迷恋！”

 

“Shh,” he chuckled, “James took weeks to forgive me, I had to swear under truth serum that I had no nefarious intentions towards you.”  

“嘘，”他笑道，“詹姆斯花了几周时间才原谅我，我不得不在真言药水下发誓对你没有恶意。”

 

“That idiot. I love him.”  

“那个傻子。我爱他。”

 

“Mm.”  

“嗯。”

 

“I’m so glad it’s Christmas,” she sighed, “We all need a break, don’t we?”  

“我真高兴圣诞节来了，”她叹了口气，“我们都需要休息一下，不是吗？”

 

“Yeah.”  

“是的。”

 

“I’m supposed to be packing today, then at James’s parents this evening - will you be there?”  

“我今天应该去收拾东西，然后今晚去詹姆斯的父母家——你会来吗？”

 

“Sirius might,” Remus said, “I’m visiting my mother. You know she's… um. She’s in the hospice, now.”  

“天狼星可能会，”雷穆斯说，“我去看我妈妈。你知道她……嗯。她现在在临终关怀中心。”

 

“Oh, of course!” Lily gave him a squeeze. “Sorry love. How is she?”  

“哦，当然！”莉莉给了他一个拥抱。“对不起，亲爱的。她怎么样了？”

 

“I don’t think they expected her to make it all the way to Christmas. But she's hanging on.”  

“我觉得他们没指望她能撑到圣诞节。但她还在坚持。”

 

“Oh Remus.” Lily sighed, sadly.  

“哦，雷穆斯。”莉莉伤心地叹息道。

 

“S’fine.” Remus pulled away, deciding he might as well get up after all. “Right. I need a cup of tea and a ciggie.” He said, getting out of bed and pulling his jeans on.  

“没事。”雷穆斯拉开她，决定还是起床比较好。“好吧。我需要一杯茶和一根烟。”他说着，起床穿上了牛仔裤。

 

“Ugh, you two really need to give up smoking,” Lily said, sitting up, “This duvet stinks.”  

“呃，你们俩真的需要戒烟，”莉莉坐起身说，“这条被子真臭。”

 

“Don’t tell me you’ve

 

 never had a cheeky post-coital fag, Evans?” Remus winked, heading for the door.  

“别告诉我你从没偷偷来一根性爱后的烟，埃文斯？”雷穆斯眨了眨眼，朝门口走去。

 

“Post c--?… oh my god, Remus !”  

“性爱后？……哦天哪，雷穆斯！”

 

He was still smirking to himself when he entered the living room, which looked like a bomb had hit it. The sofa had been moved to the middle of the room for some reason, and the cushions removed. James was fast asleep, sprawled across what looked like a giant cream mattress on the floor. Sirius was curled up at James’s feet with one of Remus’s jumpers rolled up under his head.  

当他走进客厅时，他仍在自言自语地微笑。客厅看起来像是炸弹爆炸过一样。沙发出于某种原因被移到了房间的中央，靠垫也被拿掉了。詹姆斯睡得很沉，躺在地板上看起来像一个巨大的奶油色床垫上。天狼星蜷缩在詹姆斯的脚边，用雷穆斯的一件毛衣卷在头下。

 

Remus edged into the kitchen, flicking the kettle on. Every surface was sticky with something sweet and alcoholic; there were mugs and glasses sitting about, half full, some with half-smoked cigarettes floating in them. Remus grimaced and felt his stomach contract, so he opened a window for air. He really didn’t want to be sick, if he could help it.  

雷穆斯小心翼翼地走进厨房，打开了水壶。每个表面上都粘着一些甜蜜的酒精饮料；到处都是半满的杯子和玻璃杯，有些杯子里漂浮着半根烟蒂。雷穆斯做了个鬼脸，感觉胃部一阵收缩，于是他打开了一扇窗户以透气。他真的不想呕吐，如果能避免的话。

 

Mary had written ‘Merry Christmas, Blood Traitors!’ on the fridge door in cheerful pink lipstick, with three big ‘X’ kisses below. She was spending the rest of her Christmas in Jamaica - the first time she had ever visited her grandparents’ home country. Remus was glad of it. Christmas had never been a good time as far as the war was concerned, and having Mary as far away from danger as possible made him feel a bit better.  

玛丽在冰箱门上用快乐的粉色口红写了“圣诞快乐，血腥叛徒！”下面还有三个大大的‘X’亲吻。她将把余下的圣诞节时间花在牙买加——这是她第一次访问祖父母的祖国。雷穆斯对此感到高兴。圣诞节在战争期间从未是一个好时光，将玛丽尽可能远离危险让他感觉稍微好些。

 

He wasn’t thrilled about doing Christmas at the Potters - though he felt guilty even thinking that. Sirius would never consider spending the holiday anywhere else, so of course Remus would go along with it - and it wasn’t anything to do with Mr and Mrs Potter, who had been better to him than any real family he had. It was the war, and the Order, and bloody Moody, who was sure to be there too.  

他对在波特家过圣诞节并不兴奋——尽管他连这样想都感到内疚。天狼星从不会考虑在别处过节，所以雷穆斯当然会配合——这与波特先生和波特夫人无关，他们对他比任何真正的家人都要好。问题在于战争，凤凰社，以及该死的穆迪，他肯定也会在场。

 

“Is that the kettle?” Sirius wailed from the living room.  

“是水壶的声音吗？”天狼星从客厅里哀嚎道。

 

“Yep.” Remus called back, “Two ticks.”  

“是的。”雷穆斯回答道，“马上就来。”

 

“You’re a hero amongst men, Moony,” James said when Remus arrived in the living room with a tray of milky cups of tea.  

“你是人中的英雄，月亮，”詹姆斯说，当雷穆斯端着一托盘加奶茶杯走进客厅时。

 

“Oh, I know,” Remus nodded, sipping from his cup. He perched on the arm of the sofa, “What the fuck have you done to my furniture?”  

“哦，我知道，”雷穆斯点头，啜饮着他的茶。他坐在沙发的扶手上，“你们到底对我的家具做了什么？”

 

“Brilliant, isn’t it?” Sirius grinned up at him, cross legged on the gigantic sofa cushion, “Prongs’ idea - we did an engorgement charm.”  

“很棒，不是吗？”天狼星笑着看向他，双腿盘坐在巨大的沙发垫上，“是詹姆斯的主意——我们做了一个扩张咒。”

 

“Shall we help you two clean up?” Lily asked, padding through from the bedroom. She picked up a cup of tea and sat down next to James, leaning into his shoulder sleepily.  

“我们帮你们收拾吗？”莉莉问道，从卧室走过来。她拿起一杯茶，坐在詹姆斯旁边，慵懒地靠在他的肩膀上。

 

“Breakfast first.” Remus said, quickly. “Fry up?”  

“先吃早餐。”雷穆斯迅速地说。“煎炒早餐？”

 

“Fry up.” They all agreed in unison.  

“煎炒早餐。”他们齐声同意。

 

They went to the nearest greasy spoon cafe and ordered Full Englishes all round, after which everyone felt much better prepared to face the day. After breakfast, Sirius, Lily and James started work tidying the flat, while Remus (at Sirius’s insistence) got himself ready to visit Hope.  

他们去了最近的油腻小咖啡馆，点了一份英式全餐，之后大家都感觉好些，准备好迎接新的一天。早餐后，天狼星、莉莉和詹姆斯开始打扫公寓，而雷穆斯（在天狼星的坚持下）则准备去看望霍普。

 

He didn’t wear a suit; that would have been overkill, even at Christmas, but he made an effort, ironing his cleanest grandad shirt and putting on a brown corduroy jacket he’d picked up at Portobello market. He even polished his shoes.  

他没有穿西装；即使在圣诞节，这也显得过于正式，但他还是费了点心思，熨了他最干净的祖父衬衫，穿上了他在波托贝罗市场买的棕色灯芯绒外套。他甚至还擦了鞋子。

 

Sirius had offered to come with him, but Remus preferred to go alone. It was easiest if he had time to process his interactions with Hope in private, which he hoped Sirius understood. Anyway. No one wanted to be stuck sitting in a building full of dying people two days before Christmas.  

天狼星曾提议和他一起去，但雷穆斯更愿意独自前往。如果他能在私下处理与霍普的互动，那会最方便，他希望天狼星能理解。反正，没人愿意在圣诞节前两天待在一个充满临终病人的建筑里。

 

The Hospice itself was on the other side of Cardiff. It didn’t feel much different from the hospital, except that the rooms were private, and furnished with a bit more care. She had fresh flowers every day now, which was nice. Remus brought a poinsettia, because Lily had told him they were christmassy, and Hope was no longer eating solid food, so chocolates were out.  

临终关怀中心位于卡迪夫的另一边。这里和医院感觉没多大区别，只是房间是私人的，装饰也更为细致。她现在每天都有新鲜的花，感觉很好。雷穆斯带来了一盆圣诞红，因为莉莉告诉他这很有圣诞气氛，而霍普已经不再吃固体食物了，所以巧克力就不带了。

 

Someone had wound gold and silver tinsel around her bedframe, and blu-tacked christmas cards to the walls. There were so many it looked as though she had special festive wallpaper.  

有人用金银彩带缠绕在她的床框上，还用蓝色的胶贴把圣诞贺卡贴在墙上。贺卡的数量如此之多，看起来像是特别的节日墙纸。

 

“She said that if you came while she was sleeping, I was to wake her up straight away,” said the cheerful nurse on duty.  

“她说如果你来的时候她在睡觉，让我立刻叫醒她，”值班的护士愉快地说道。

 

“Thanks, I’ll wake her,” he smiled.  

“谢谢，我会叫醒她的，”他微笑着说。

 

His mother lay dozing softly in her big hospital bed.

 

 He wondered how tall she was, standing up. Quite small, he imagined - based on the pictures he had of her with Lyall, and how tiny her hands were. He had only ever seen her lying down, and now he realised he might never see her any other way.  

他的母亲在大医院床上轻轻打盹。他想知道她站起来有多高。他想象她可能很矮——基于他看到的她和利尔的照片，以及她手的细小。他只见过她躺着的样子，现在他意识到可能再也无法见到她的其他模样。

 

He touched her hand, gently, squeezing it with his fingers. Her eyelids fluttered, and she frowned, the pain evident in her face. She turned her head and saw him, and her brow smoothed at once,  

他轻轻地碰了碰她的手，用手指握住。她的眼睑颤动了一下，脸上的痛苦明显。她转过头看到他，眉头立即舒展开来，

 

“Hello my darling,” she said thickly, as if her mouth was full of cotton wool.  

“你好，我的亲爱的，”她沉重地说，仿佛她的嘴里塞满了棉花。

 

“Merry Christmas, mum.” He said, sitting down.  

“圣诞快乐，妈妈。”他说，坐了下来。

 

“ Nadolig llawen ,” she said, in neat earthy Welsh.  

“圣诞快乐，”她用地道的威尔士语说。

 

“How are you?”  

“你怎么样？”

 

“Better for seeing you,” she smiled. “I’m so glad you’ve come.”  

“看到你我感觉好多了，”她微笑道，“我很高兴你来了。”

 

“Of course.” He said, earnestly. “It's Christmas.”  

“当然。”他说，诚挚地，“是圣诞节。”

 

There had been no talk of his visiting her on Christmas day itself. They’d both skirted around the issue and Remus assumed that she wanted to spend it with her real family.  

他们并没有谈论他在圣诞节当天去看她的事。他们都回避了这个问题，雷穆斯以为她想和她真正的家人一起度过这个节日。

She asked now, though.

“Where will you be? At home with Sirius?” It was strange to hear her say his name, with her soft rolling r’s.

“At our friend’s parents,” he replied, “The Potters - you met Mrs Potter, once, she told me. Euphemia.”

“I won’t remember,” she shook her head. “I’d invite you here, but it won’t be much fun for you, I’m afraid.”

“Whatever you like, mum.” He said, hoping he didn’t sound disappointed.

“You’ll be happier with your friends.” She said, as if to herself.

“Mr Potter knew Lyall,” Remus prodded a bit harder, wanting to talk about something more substantial. “They worked at the ministry together, and they went to the pub sometimes, and James - their son - he was born in March, same as me--”
“波特先生认识利尔，”雷穆斯稍微加重了语气，想谈一些更实质的事情。“他们在魔法部一起工作，有时也会去酒吧，詹姆斯——他们的儿子——他和我一样，三月出生——”

“I don’t remember,” Hope said, more forcefully this time. “I’m sorry Remus, I don’t. Lyall kept those things separate. It’s often better that way, you’ll learn.”
“我不记得了，”霍普这次说得更坚定。“对不起，雷穆斯，我真的不记得。利尔把那些事情分开了。通常这样更好，你会明白的。”

He thought about this. Thought about how little he’d known about his parents for most of his life, and how little he’d known about himself as a result. He thought about Sirius, and how they always fought because Remus wasn’t open enough. How much it hurt other people to keep secrets, even when you were trying to protect them.
他思考了一下，想到自己大部分时间对父母了解得很少，结果对自己了解得也很少。他想到天狼星，他们总是争吵，因为雷穆斯不够坦诚。隐瞒秘密对别人有多么伤害，即使你是出于保护他们的目的。

“I don’t agree.” He said, simply. “I don’t think it’s good to hide things all the time.”
“我不同意。”他说，简单地，“我不认为总是隐瞒事情是好的。”

“Well.” Hope said. She looked away, and withdrew her hand from his.
“那好吧。”霍普说。她转过头，把手从雷穆斯的手里抽回。

Remus realised that she was annoyed with him. It was an odd sensation, and a first for their relationship. He wasn’t sure how to react. If he’d known her all his life, then he would know what to do; it would be old hat, bickering with your mum. His temper rose the more he thought about it - this was all her fault, his stupid stunted emotions, his complete inability to be comfortable with other people, and here she was, avoiding him.
雷穆斯意识到她对他感到恼火。这是一种奇怪的感觉，对于他们的关系来说还是第一次。他不确定如何应对。如果他一生都认识她，那么他会知道该怎么做；这会是老生常谈，和妈妈争吵。他的脾气随着思考的深入而上涨——这一切都是她的错，他愚蠢受限的情感，他对与其他人相处的完全无能，现在她却在躲着他。

He wanted her attention, and he only knew one way to get it.
他想要她的注意，而他只知道一种办法来获得它。

“Mrs Potter - James’s mum - she’s great.” He said, “She makes the best mince pies ever, and a full Christmas dinner, and she always gets me a present, even though I’m not her kid.”
“波特夫人——詹姆斯的妈妈——她很棒。”他说，“她做的馅饼是最好的，还有丰盛的圣诞晚餐，她总是给我准备礼物，即使我不是她的孩子。”

Hope pursed her lips, but still didn’t look up.
霍普抿了抿嘴唇，但仍然没有抬头。

“That sounds nice.” She said in a small, tight voice.

“听起来不错。”她用小声而紧绷的声音说。

Remus ploughed on,
雷穆斯继续说，

“Yeah, James is really lucky. I’d never even had a proper Christmas until I went to the Potters.”
“是啊，詹姆斯真的很幸运。在去波特家之前，我从未真正过过圣诞节。”

“Yes you did!”
“你曾经有过！”

She looked up at him, suddenly, and he saw his own anger reflected back in her eyes.
她突然抬头看着他，雷穆斯看到自己愤怒的反射在她的眼中。

“You did!” She said, “We had lovely Christmases when you were little!” She was staring at him as if he was mad, as if he was the one who was ill, not her,
“你有的！”她说，“我们在你小的时候过过美好的圣诞节！”她盯着他，仿佛他疯了，仿佛是他生病了，而不是她，

“Don’t you remember the tree with the gold angel, and the nativity set? I thought you’d swallowed baby Jesus one year, but you had him under your pillow, because I’d told you about nasty old king Herod and you wanted to keep him safe - you were so sweet. And we bought you that hobby horse, and the farm set - you loved the farm set, the little pink piglets, I was forever finding them in the garden. And the hand puppets, and the army tank - remember your tank? I told Lyall you were too young, you were a sensitive boy, I didn’t like you playing wars, but you loved it, and daddy used to make it move with his magic, and you’d chatter away together for hours...”
“你不记得有一个金色天使的圣诞树，还有耶稣降生场景吗？我曾经以为你吞下了耶稣宝宝，但你把他放在了枕头下，因为我告诉你了恶毒的旧希律王的事，你想保护他——你真的很甜。还有我们给你买的木马和农场玩具——你喜欢那个农场玩具，小小的粉色小猪，我总是在花园里找到它们。还有手偶和坦克——记得你的坦克吗？我告诉利尔你还太小了，你是个敏感的孩子，我不喜欢你玩战争游戏，但你很喜欢，爸爸常常用魔法让它动，你们会聊上好几个小时……”

She trailed off, clearly upset. Remus gawped at her,
她说到这里，明显很伤心。雷穆斯瞪大了眼睛看着她，

“I don’t remember any of that, mum.” He said. He searched for her hand again, and squeezed it. “I wish I did, though. It sounds nice.”
“我不记得这些，妈妈。”他说。他再次寻找她的手，紧紧握住。“我希望我记得，那听起来很美好。”

“I think about you every year.” She said, tearfully, voice shaking, “Every night I used to light the advent candle and think about you, Remus, and I’d talk about you… I’d tell Siân about you, too.”
“我每年都在想你。”她含泪地说，声音颤抖，“每晚我都会点亮降临蜡烛，想着你，雷穆斯，我会谈论你……我也会告诉西安关于你的事。”

He snapped to attention. She was watching him warily, as though afraid he might lash out. Aware of this, he kept his voice even,
他立刻警觉起来。她小心翼翼地看着他，仿佛怕他会发火。意识到这一点，他保持着平静的语气，

“Could you tell me a bit about Siân?”
“你能告诉我一点关于西安的事吗？”

Hope gnawed her lip. She looked so exhausted from the pain and the drugs and fucking cancer, he was starting to feel guilty. But they were almost out of time.
霍普咬着嘴唇。她看起来因疼痛、药物和该死的癌症而疲惫不堪，雷穆斯开始感到内疚。但他们几乎没时间了。

“She’s eight,” she said, finally. “She’ll be nine in February.”
“她八岁了，”她终于说，“她二月份就九岁了。”

“And she’s your daughter with… with Gethin?” Remus asked, feeling as though all of the air had left the room
“她是你和……盖思温的女儿？”雷穆斯问，感觉房间里的空气都离开了。

Hope nodded, closing her eyes. Tears spilled out under her lashes, streaming down her cheeks.
霍普点了点头，闭上了眼睛。眼泪从她的睫毛下流出，顺着脸颊滑落。

“I never re-married - not after Lyall. But I fell in love. I had my Siân.”
“我从未再婚——利尔去世后没有。但我坠入了爱河。我有了西安。”

“Only Siân?”
“只有西安？”

She nodded again. Remus frowned,
她再次点头。雷穆斯皱起了眉头，

“When I first came to see you, the nurse said you were always talking about your kids - I thought you had more than one.”
“我第一次来看你时，护士说你总是谈论你的孩子——我以为你不止一个。”

“I do,” she looked at him, puzzled, blinking through tears, “You and Siân.”
“我有，”她看着他，困惑地眨着泪眼，“你和西安。”

“Oh.” He felt dreadful. All this time he’d thought he was one of Hope’s terrible secrets.
“哦。”他感到非常糟糕。一直以来，他以为自己是霍普的可怕秘密之一。

“I’ve never been ashamed.” She said, a note of defiance entering her voice. “Not of my lovely boy. Never.”
“我从未感到羞愧。”她说，声音里带着一丝反抗。“不对我的可爱儿子。绝不。”

“Mum…” he felt as though he’d been punched in the gut. He was crying too, all of a sudden, and he squeezed her hand desperately.
“妈妈……”他感觉自己像是被打了一拳。他突然也开始哭泣，绝望地握住她的手。

“Come here,” she reached out for him, and he got up to sit carefully on the edge of the bed, leaning over so that she could wrap her arms around him. He rested his head on her shoulder, trying not to put too much weight on her frail body, but she was stronger than he gave her credit for, and held him tightly.
“过来，”她伸手向他，他小心翼翼地坐在床边，俯身让她能拥抱他。他将头靠在她的肩膀上，尽量不把太多重量压在她脆弱的身体上，但她比他想象的要坚强，紧紧抱着他。

“I’m sorry, mum,” he said, his words muffled by her soft nightgown. She smelled of talcum powder and lavender, and family. She stroked his hair,
“对不起，妈妈，”他说，声音被她柔软的睡衣所遮挡。她身上散发着爽身粉和薰衣草的味道，还有家的气息。她抚摸着他的头发，

 “You’ve nothing to be sorry for, sweetheart. I love you.”

“I love you too,” he wept.

 

I've looked at clouds from both sides now

From up and down, and still somehow

It's cloud illusions I recall

I really don't know clouds at all

 

* * *

 

Moons and Junes and Ferris wheels

The dizzy dancing way you feel

As every fairy tale comes real

I've looked at love that way

 

But now it's just another show

You leave 'em laughing when you go

And if you care, don't let them know

Don't give yourself away

 

He stayed at the Hospice for longer than usual, and by the time he had apparated to the Potter’s front gate, he was exhausted. He felt like laundry that had been wrung out and splayed on a clothesline, weak and bare and empty.  

他在临终关怀中心待得比平时久，直到他瞬移到波特家的前门时，已经疲惫不堪。他感觉自己就像是被拧干、挂在晾衣绳上的衣物，虚弱、裸露、空荡荡的。

 

James had to question him at the door - it was second nature now.  

詹姆斯在门口问了他几个问题——这现在已经成为第二天性。

 

“Which film did we see in the summer of 1974?”  

“我们在1974年夏天看了哪部电影？”

 

“The Great Gatsby.” He replied, grimly.  

“《了不起的盖茨比》。”他阴沉地回答。

 

James saw the look on his face and stepped aside at once.  

詹姆斯看到他脸上的神情，立刻让开了。

 

“All right, Moony?” he asked, putting a hand on Remus’s shoulder.  

“怎么了，月亮？”他问，拍了拍雷穆斯的肩膀。

 

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, hoping he just looked tired, “I don’t want to be rude, but would it be all right if I just went to bed? Um. Tell your parents I’m really sorry, I’m just…”  

“嗯，”雷穆斯点了点头，希望自己看起来只是累了，“我不想不礼貌，但我能直接去睡觉吗？嗯，告诉你父母我真的很抱歉，我只是……”

 

“Yeah, of course, mate!” James said eagerly, “You go up, I’ll tell ‘em you’re knackered.”  

“当然，伙计！”詹姆斯热切地说，“你上去吧，我会告诉他们你累坏了。”

 

“Thank you.” Remus smiled. He climbed the familiar stairs to bed. He really hoped Mrs Potter wouldn’t mind - he’d be fine in the morning, but just now he wasn’t sure if his nerves could handle seeing her. She always hugged him, too, and being hugged by one mother today was about as much as he could take.  

“谢谢。”雷穆斯笑了。他爬上了熟悉的楼梯去上床。他真的希望波特夫人不会介意——他明天会没事的，但现在他不确定自己的神经能否承受见到她。她总是拥抱他，今天被一个母亲拥抱已经是他能接受的极限了。

 

Of course, it wasn’t long before Sirius poked his head around the bedroom door.  

当然，不久之后，西里斯就把头探进了卧室门口。

 

“I’ll leave you be, if you want,” he said, carrying in a tray loaded with cheese, pickle, ham, crackers and of course Mrs Potter’s famous mince pies. “I just thought you might be peckish?”  

“如果你想的话，我可以离开，”他说，端着一个装满奶酪、腌菜、火腿、饼干，当然还有波特夫人著名的肉馅饼的托盘。“我只是觉得你可能会有点饿？”

 

“I’m starving,” Remus grinned at him, “Thank you.”  

“我饿得要死了，”雷穆斯对他笑了笑，“谢谢。”

 

Looking very pleased with himself, Sirius crossed the room more confidently, and set the tray down on the bed between them. They sat quietly for a while, cross-legged on the duvet cover, Remus eating, Sirius pretending not to watch him. When he was finished, Sirius took the tray away, and Remus lay down, stretching out his aching limbs.  

西里斯看起来很自得，他更自信地穿过房间，把托盘放在他们之间的床上。他们静静地坐了一会儿，盘腿坐在被子上，雷穆斯在吃东西，西里斯假装不看他。雷穆斯吃完后，西里斯拿走了托盘，雷穆斯躺下，伸展着酸痛的四肢。

 

“Shall I go?” Sirius asked.  

“我走吗？”西里斯问。

 

“No.” Remus said. “Just… don’t expect too much, ok?”  

“不要。”雷穆斯说。“只是……不要期待太多，好吗？”

 

“Ok.” He lay down next to Remus, on his back.  

“好的。”他躺在雷穆斯旁边，仰面朝上。

 

“How’s the hangover?” Remus asked, remembering the state they’d all been in that morning.  

“宿醉怎么样？”雷穆斯问，记起他们那天早晨的状态。

 

“Fine,” Sirius snorted, “Evans and her potions.”  

“还好，”西里斯哼了一声，“埃文斯和她的药水。”

 

“Great.”  

“太好了。”

 

Remus closed his eyes, letting the events of the day settle in his mind. It was good to have Sirius there, he decided. Being alone might be really awful. If only there was a way to express that without having it come out wrong.  

雷穆斯闭上了眼睛，让一天的事情在脑海中沉淀。他决定有西里斯在身边是好的。独处可能真的很糟糕。如果有办法表达这种感觉而不会弄巧成拙就好了。

 

“I’ve got a sister.” He said, finally. “She’s eight.”  

“我有一个妹妹。”他说，终于说道。“她八岁。”

 

“Wow.”  

“哇。”

 

“Mm.” He reached for Sirius’s hand and held it. “It took her months to tell me. God knows what else I don’t know. I wish we had more time together.”  

“嗯。”他伸手握住西里斯的手。“她花了几个月才告诉我。天知道我还不知道什么。我希望我们能有更多的时间在一起。”

 

Sirius squeezed his hand sympathetically. Remus licked his lips, steeling himself for the next bit. “I wish we had more time, but I also… I also wish she would be more open. It really hurts, knowing that there are parts of her she keeps private.”  

西里斯同情地握紧了他的手。雷穆斯舔了舔嘴唇，鼓起勇气说出接下来的话。“我希望我们能有更多的时间，但我也……我也希望她能更开放。知道她有些部分对我保密真的很痛苦。”

 

“Oh?” Sirius was doing an excellent job of keeping his cool. If Remus hadn’t been so sad it would be comical.  

“哦？”西里斯做得很好，保持了冷静。如果雷穆斯没有那么伤心，这会很滑稽。

 

“Yeah.” He said. He turned to look at Sirius. Sirius turned to look back at him. “So I’m sorry,” Remus said, nervously, “If I ever make you feel that way.”  

“是的。”他说。他转过身看向西里斯。西里斯转过身来回看着他。“所以我很抱歉，”雷穆斯紧张地说，“如果我让你有那种感觉。”

 

“Moony--”  

“月亮——”

 

“--It’s just that I get worried,” Remus said quickly, “That you won’t… if you knew some things…”  

“——只是我有点担心，”雷穆斯迅速说，“如果你知道一些事情，你会……”

 

“There’s nothing you could tell me that would change how I feel.” Sirius said.  

“没有什么你能告诉我的，会改变我的感受。”西里斯说。

 

Remus was speechless at that. But it was a good feeling. A happy feeling, even considering the circumstances. He couldn’t look at Sirius any more so he rolled onto his side. Luckily, Sirius seemed to understand and followed suit, draping an arm across Remus’s body. Remus breathed in slowly.  

雷穆斯听到这话无言以对。但这是一种好的感觉。即使考虑到情况，这也是一种快乐的感觉。他不能再看西里斯了，于是他侧身躺下。幸运的是，西里斯似乎理解了，也跟着躺下，把手臂搭在雷穆斯的身体上。雷穆斯缓缓呼吸。

 

“That mission I did, back in the summer? It went really badly.” He said, feeling the weight already lifting.  

“我在夏天做的那个任务？情况很糟糕。”他说，感觉负担已经减轻。

 

“I thought something had happened.” Sirius said. “Go on.”  

“我以为发生了什么事。”西里斯说。“继续说。”

 

“I… do you remember how I got, the last time there were werewolves nearby? Like… really pushy and sort of not thinking? That happened again. No one got hurt, but I’m pretty sure Danny thinks I’m dangerously mad now.”  

“我……你还记得上次有狼人出现时我是什么状态吗？就像……非常急躁、缺乏思考？这次又发生了。没有人受伤，但

 

我很确定丹尼现在认为我非常疯狂。”

 

“It didn’t happen to him?”  

“没有发生在他身上吗？”

 

“I think he must have felt it. But we reacted differently. I sort of - took charge. Not on purpose, it just felt natural at the time.”  

“我想他一定感受到了。但我们反应不同。我有点——掌控了局面。不是故意的，只是当时感觉很自然。”

 

“That makes sense,” Sirius said, “That's what you do on full moons, we have to let you be the leader.”  

“这很有道理，”西里斯说，“那是你在满月时的做法，我们得让你做领导者。”

 

“Yeah, I hadn’t thought of it like that.”  

“是的，我没这么想过。”

 

“So… if no one got hurt, what happened?”  

“所以……如果没有人受伤，那发生了什么？”

 

“One of the werewolves tried to attack me, but I overpowered him.” Remus said, “I was supposed to get information, but all I did was rile them up.”  

“一个狼人试图攻击我，但我制服了他。”雷穆斯说，“我本应该获得信息，但我做的只是激怒他们。”

 

“What did Moody say about it?”  

“穆迪对此说了什么？”

 

“He was… cryptic. I don’t think he was angry. He asked me if I minded going alone next time - without Danny. But he hasn’t sent me on any other missions, not proper ones, and it’s been months…”  

“他……含糊其辞。我觉得他没有生气。他问我下次是否介意单独去——没有丹尼。但他没有派我去做其他任务，没有正式的任务，已经好几个月了……”

 

“They have to be saving you for something.” Sirius said, “I know they have to be - James keeps telling Frank and Alice how good you are at defensive magic, and they just say they can’t do anything without an order from someone above them.”  

“他们一定是在为某个任务留着你。”西里斯说，“我知道他们一定是这样——詹姆斯一直告诉弗兰克和爱丽丝你在防御魔法方面很出色，他们只是说没有上级的命令他们什么也做不了。”

 

“Maybe.” Remus sighed.  

“也许吧。”雷穆斯叹了口气。

 

“Did he really say you had to go alone next time?”  

“他真的说下次你必须一个人去吗？”

 

“He didn’t say I had to… just asked if I minded. And I don’t think there’s any other way - Danny won’t work with me again, he was too scared. So I suppose… yeah, it’ll be just me next time.”  

“他没有说我必须……只是问我是否介意。而且我觉得没有其他办法——丹尼不会再和我合作了，他太害怕了。所以我想……是的，下次就只有我一个人了。”

 

Sirius’s arms tightened around Remus.  

西里斯的手臂紧紧地环绕着雷穆斯。

 

“I hate that.”  

“我讨厌这样。”

 

Remus didn’t have a response, and Sirius didn’t seem to be looking for one, so they just lay like that quietly for a while, until Remus fell asleep.  

 

雷穆斯没有回应，西里斯也似乎没有期待回应，所以他们就这样安静地躺了一会儿，直到雷穆斯入睡。

* * *

Boxing Day 1978

 

As Lily had predicted, Christmas Day 1978 was a welcome break from everyone’s troubles. In fact - perhaps because it had been a particularly difficult year - Remus always remembered that Christmas as one of the most pleasant and happy they had together.  

正如莉莉所预测的那样，1978年的圣诞节成为了大家烦恼中的一片清新。事实上——也许是因为这一年特别艰难——雷穆斯总是记得那个圣诞节是他们一起度过的最愉快和幸福的时光之一。

 

Mr and Mrs Potter were slowing down a bit - Euphemia said she wasn’t up to hosting a big party as she usually did, and anyway, the Ministry had warned against large social gatherings. Mr Potter had to be locked out of his study - James and Sirius stole the key - but he saw the funny side, and joined in with the festivities whole-heartedly.  

波特先生和波特夫妇有些放慢了脚步——尤菲米亚说她没法像往常一样举办大派对了，而且，魔法部也警告说要避免大型社交聚会。波特先生不得不被锁在书房外——詹姆斯和西里斯偷走了钥匙——但他看到了幽默的一面， wholehearted地参与了庆祝活动。

 

Remus noticed that this year it was really James and Lily who were the hosts. She co-ordinated most of the cooking, the decorating, the card writing; while he made sure that everyone always had a drink, that all of the usual Christmas games were played, and that the house was full of joy at all times.  

雷穆斯注意到，今年真正的东道主是詹姆斯和莉莉。她协调了大部分的烹饪、装饰和贺卡书写，而他则确保每个人都有饮料，所有惯常的圣诞游戏都进行，房子里始终充满欢乐。

 

As for presents, it was all of the usual fare - sweets and nuts and candied fruit, new socks and underwear, a pair of pyjamas from Lily as a joke (“so I stop catching you in your knickers!”), and a shiny new pair of doc martens from Sirius.  

至于礼物，都是一些常见的东西——糖果、坚果、蜜饯、新袜子和内裤，一套莉莉开的玩笑的睡衣（“这样我就不会再抓到你穿着内裤了！”），以及一双西里斯送的闪亮的新军靴。

 

Surprisingly, Remus also received a gift from Grant that year, and felt guilty for not getting him one in return. He laughed when he opened it - a filofax organiser. Grant had written his own address and phone number in the first page, and in the back where the notes had written the heading: “New Year's Resolutions: 1. Stop and smell the roses.”  

出乎意料的是，雷穆斯那年也收到了格兰特的礼物，并为没有回赠礼物而感到内疚。他在打开礼物时笑了——一个文件夹组织器。格兰特在第一页上写了自己的地址和电话号码，在背面写着标题：“新年决心：1. 停下来闻闻玫瑰花。”

 

Christmas Day over and done with, James and Lily were heading to the Evans’s for Boxing Day (James was absolutely dreading it, having met Lily’s sister twice already, and failed to impress her either time.) So Sirius and Remus went back to their own home to settle in and get ready for the New Year. Sirius rather liked the idea of hosting his own party, and Remus was prepared to give in, as long as they only invited people they knew.  

圣诞节结束后，詹姆斯和莉莉正前往埃文斯家过节（詹姆斯非常害怕，已经见过莉莉的姐姐两次，但每次都没能给她留下好印象）。所以西里斯和雷穆斯回到自己的家，准备安顿下来，迎接新年。西里斯非常喜欢举办自己的派对的主意，而雷穆斯准备妥协，只要他们邀请的都是他们认识的人。

 

“How many do you reckon we can fit in this flat anyway?” Remus asked as they opened the door. “It’s not like we’ve got a ballroom, there’s only one sofa!”  

“你觉得我们这公寓能容纳多少人？”雷穆斯一边开门一边问。“不像我们有舞厅，只有一个沙发！”

 

“We ought to knock through the kitchen, have it all open plan,” Sirius replied, as they walked in. The phone was ringing, and he went to answer it. “Hello?” He frowned, then held out the phone to Remus, “For you, I think?”  

“我们应该打通厨房，把它改成开放式的，”西里斯回答道。他们走进来时，电话响了，他去接听。“你好？”他皱起了眉头，然后把电话递给雷穆斯，“我想是给你的。”

 

Remus took the receiver from him. Of course it was for him - Sirius didn’t know anyone who could use a telephone.  

雷穆斯接过电话。的确是给他的——西里斯不认识任何会用电话的人。

 

“Hello?”  

“你好？”

 

“Hullo? Is that Remus Lupin?” It was a man with a deep voice and a broad Welsh accent. Remus’s insides went cold, and he sat down on the arm of the couch, steadying himself.  

“你好？是雷穆斯·卢平吗？”是一个声音深沉、带有浓厚威尔士口音的男人。雷穆斯的内心突然冰冷，他坐在沙发扶手上，稳住自己。

 

“Yes, that’s right…”  

“是的，没错……”

 

“Ah, good. Ah. My name’s Gethin Rees.”  

“啊，好。啊，我叫盖思温·里斯。”

 

Remus swallowed, and found his throat dry.  

雷穆斯吞了吞口水，发现喉咙干涩。

 

“Is she... She’s gone, isn’t she?”  

“她……她走了吗？”

 

There was a long quiet on the other end of the phone, and Remus began to cry. Finally, Gethin spoke, his own voice sounding very rough.  

电话那头沉默了很久，雷穆斯开始哭泣。终于，盖思温开口了，他的声音听起来非常粗糙。

 

“I’m sorry, lad. Funeral’s next Wednesday.”  

 

“对不起，小伙子。葬礼在下周三。”

 

I've looked at love from both sides now

From give and take, and still somehow

It's love's illusions I recall

I really don't know love at all

* * *

Tears and fears and feeling proud

To say "I love you" right out loud

Dreams and schemes and circus crowds

I've looked at life that way

 

But now old friends are acting strange

They shake their heads, they say I've changed

Well something's lost, but something's gained

In living every day.

 

Wednesday 3rd January 1979

Remus sighed, staring out of their bedroom window watching the raindrops sliding down the glass. When he was a little boy and it rained, he would sit on the biggest windowsill he could find at St Edmunds and pick two droplets, then pretend they were racing to the bottom of the pane. An idea he’d got from a poem; maybe one Hope had read him, which he’d forgotten now.  

雷穆斯叹了口气，凝视着卧室窗户上滑下的雨滴。当他还是个小男孩时，每当下雨，他会坐在圣埃德蒙兹找到的最大的窗台上，挑选两滴雨水，然后假装它们在窗格底部比赛。这是他从一首诗中得到的主意；也许是希望读给他听的，但现在他已经忘记了。

 

It always rained at funerals in films. That was called ‘pathetic fallacy’, Remus had read about it in an old A-level English textbook. Of course, if you had a funeral in Wales in January, the chances of rain were extremely high, too. It was a strange thing to be glad about, but it seemed proper. A sunny day would have been intolerable.  

电影中的葬礼总是下雨。这被称为“悲惨谬误”，雷穆斯在一本旧的A-level英语教科书中读到过。当然，如果你在一月的威尔士举办葬礼，降雨的可能性也非常高。这是一个奇怪的让人感到高兴的事，但似乎很合适。阳光明媚的日子会令人无法忍受。

 

“Ready?” Sirius asked, very gently, entering the room.  

“准备好了吗？”西里斯非常温柔地问道，走进房间。

 

Remus looked up at him, feeling numb, and nodded. Sirius looked gorgeous in a black suit, his hair tied back. Remus felt scruffy, though they were dressed identically, Sirius just wore clothes better. Remus had wanted to cut his hair short, to make it look tidier, but he’d been convinced not to, in the end. Still, the urge to do something drastic was there.  

雷穆斯抬头看着他，感觉麻木，点了点头。西里斯穿着黑色西装，头发束在后面，看起来很迷人。虽然他们穿得一模一样，但雷穆斯感觉自己很邋遢，西里斯只是穿衣服更好看。雷穆斯曾想剪短头发，让它看起来更整洁，但最后还是被说服了。尽管如此，他仍然有一种做点激烈的事的冲动。

 

“Take your time,” Sirius said, “We’ve got an hour or so.”  

“慢慢来，”西里斯说，“我们还有一个小时左右。”

 

Remus nodded again. The service was supposed to start at eleven, but Gethin had said that if he wanted to come earlier and greet the mourners, then he was welcome to. Remus still wasn’t sure.  

雷穆斯再次点头。仪式本该在十一点开始，但盖思温说，如果他想早点来迎接悼念者，他是受欢迎的。雷穆斯仍然不确定。

 

Sirius closed the bedroom door, and came to sit next to him. He held his hand, and stared out of the window too.  

西里斯关上卧室的门，坐到他旁边。他握住雷穆斯的手，也看向窗外。

 

“Have you ever been to a funeral before?” Remus asked, finally.  

“你以前参加过葬礼吗？”雷穆斯终于问道。

 

“Uncle Alphard’s,” Sirius replied, “I was only little, though. Nine or ten. Don’t remember it. I’ve never… lost anyone close.”  

“阿尔法德叔叔的，”西里斯回答，“不过那时我还很小，大约九岁或十岁。我记不太清楚。我从未……失去过亲近的人。”

 

“Mm.” Remus inclined his head, still watching the raindrops against the grey sky, “I don’t know if I knew Hope all that well. I didn’t even know her for a whole year.”  

“嗯。”雷穆斯低下头，仍然看着灰色天空中的雨滴，“我不知道我是否真的了解希望。我甚至没有认识她整整一年。”

 

“I don’t think that matters.”  

“我觉得那不重要。”

 

“Nor do I.” Remus bowed his head.  

“我也这样认为。”雷穆斯低下头。

 

He wasn’t going to cry again, he didn’t think he could. It had felt good at first, a big rush of emotion. But since then, nothing. Just a blankness, and empty feeling he hadn’t had before.  

他不打算再哭了，他觉得自己可能做不到。一开始哭泣的感觉很好，一股情感的冲动。但从那以后，什么都没有。只是空白和他之前没有过的空虚感。

 

Sirius gripped his hand again.  

西里斯再次握住他的手。

 

“I’ll be with you the whole time.”  

“我会一直陪着你。”

 

Remus looked at him and smiled weakly.  

雷穆斯看着他，勉强笑了笑。

 

“Thank you. Ok, I think I’m ready.” He stood up, finally whirring into action. “Oh shit!” He said, slapping his forehead, “The flowers! Padfoot, I forgot to pick up the bloody flowers!”  

“谢谢你。好，我想我准备好了。”他终于站了起来，开始行动。“哦，糟糕！”他说，一边拍打额头，“花！帕德弗， 我忘了去取该死的花了！”

 

Sirius put a hand on his shoulder,  

西里斯把手放在他的肩膀上，

 

“I got Wormtail to do it, he’s got them. And Lily’s got the address for the church, so we don’t get lost - Prongs has the food for the wake, his mum sent along some pork pies and sausage rolls, and I’ve got the umbrellas sorted. All you need to do is apparate, everything else is taken care of, all right?”  

“我让沃姆塔尔去拿了，他已经拿到了。而且莉莉有教堂的地址，所以我们不会迷路——詹姆斯负责带酒葬的食物，他的妈妈送了一些猪肉派和香肠卷，我也准备好了伞。你只需要瞬移，其他的一切都安排好了，好吗？”

 

Overwhelmed, Remus grabbed him and hugged him tightly.  

感到不知所措，雷穆斯抓住他，紧紧地抱住他。

 

“Thank you,” he said.  

“谢谢你，”他说。

 

Sirius hugged him back,  

西里斯也拥抱了他，

 

“Anything for our Moony, eh?”  

“为我们的月亮做任何事，嗯？”

 

Remus smiled, breathing in Sirius’s hair, his scent, letting it anchor him. The words popped into his head almost out of nowhere, and finally, finally, it was easy to say.  

雷穆斯微笑着，深吸西里斯的发香，任凭它让自己安定下来。这些话几乎是突然出现在他脑海中的，终于，终于，轻松地说出来了。

 

“Sirius?” He whispered, still holding on.  

“西里斯？”他低声说道，仍然抱着。

 

“Yeah?”  

“嗯？”

 

“Love you.”  

“爱你。”

 

Sirius kissed his cheek, huffing a soft laugh, which sounded like relief.  

西里斯亲吻了他的脸颊，轻轻笑了一声，听起来像是松了口气。

 

“Love you too.”  

“我也爱你。”

 

They walked into the living room hand in hand. James and Peter were also in suits, and Lily in a simple black dress, her usually vibrant hair neatly tied back in a bun. She was carrying an enormous bouquet of flowers. They all gave Remus cautious, sympathetic smiles, which he was getting used to now. He nodded back at them all, gratefully.  

他们手牵手走进了客厅。詹姆斯和彼得也穿着西装，莉莉则穿着一件简单的黑色连衣裙，她那通常充满活力的头发整齐地扎成了发髻。她还提着一大束花。他们都给了雷穆斯小心翼翼、充满同情的微笑，雷穆斯现在已经习惯了这种笑容。他感激地向他们点了点头。

 

“Right.” Sirius said, taking charge, “Let’s do this.”  

“好了。”西里斯说道，开始掌控局面，“我们开始吧。”

 

It was a small village church, just outside of Hope’s hometown - it was where she had been christened, and if she had married a muggle, it was where the wedding would have been. Remus knew from their brief conversations that Hope had not been particularly religious, but that her family belonged to the Church in Wales, so she went along for tradition’s sake.  

这是一个小村庄的教堂，就在希望的家乡外

 

面——这是她受洗的地方，如果她嫁给了一个麻瓜，那么婚礼也会在这里举行。雷穆斯从他们的简短对话中知道，希望并不是特别虔诚，但她的家庭属于威尔士教会，所以她还是遵循传统去的。

 

It was a very pretty building - or at least it would have been, if it wasn’t raining so hard. Soft grey granite, with a bell tower and a pointed steeple, simple but pretty stained glass windows. Like a church in a picture book. The graveyard was full of ancient tombstones and stone crosses, but Hope would be cremated, as per her wishes.  

这是一个非常漂亮的建筑——或者至少如果不下这么大的雨的话，它会更漂亮。柔和的灰色花岗岩，配有钟楼和尖顶，简单却美丽的彩色玻璃窗。就像一本图画书中的教堂。墓地里满是古老的墓碑和石十字架，但希望将按她的愿望火化。

 

The marauders and Lily approached slowly, walking up the sodden pathway to join the cluster of mourners gathered in the doorway. Remus spotted Gethin straight away, standing just inside the porch, shaking hands with each attendee as they entered. He was a tall man, like Lyall, but not as spindly. He had dark hair, thick black eyebrows and rather a weak chin. He looked completely broken, and Remus was instantly less nervous about meeting him.  

魔法四人组和莉莉缓缓走近，沿着湿透的小路走向门口聚集的悼念者群体。雷穆斯立刻看到了盖思温，站在门廊里，与每位进门的悼念者握手。他是一个高大的男人，像莱尔一样，但没有那么瘦。他有黑色的头发，浓密的黑眉毛和一个相当削弱的下巴。他看起来完全崩溃了，雷穆斯立刻对见到他感到不那么紧张了。

 

Lily, James and Peter hung back, looking for somewhere to put all the food they’d brought for the wake, which was supposed to be in the church hall around the back. Remus and Sirius silently waited their turn to go in.  

莉莉、詹姆斯和彼得退在后面，寻找一个地方放置他们带来的所有酒葬食物，这些食物本应该放在教堂后面的大厅里。雷穆斯和西里斯默默地等待着他们的入场机会。

 

“Hullo,” Gethin said, barely looking up as Remus approached, “Thank you for coming…”  

“你好，”盖思温说，几乎没有抬头看雷穆斯走近，“谢谢你们来……”

 

“I’m Remus.” Remus said, shaking the proffered hand. Gethin looked up at once, blinking. They were about eye-level.  

“我是雷穆斯。”雷穆斯说道，握住伸出的手。盖思温立刻抬头，眨了眨眼。他们差不多在同一高度。

 

“Remus.” Gethin shook his hand weakly, his dark eyes raking Remus over. “Hope talked about you all the time. It’s a shame we’re meeting like this.”  

“雷穆斯。”盖思温虚弱地握了握他的手，他那深色的眼睛扫过雷穆斯。“希望总是提到你。我们以这样的方式见面真是太遗憾了。”

 

“Yes.” Remus nodded.  

“是的。”雷穆斯点头。

 

They stood awkwardly for a while, just looking at each other, before Gethin came to his senses, “Go in,” he said, gesturing, “Your mum was keen on you sitting in the front row, but it’s up to you…”  

他们尴尬地站了会儿，只是互相看着，之后盖思温才回过神来，“进去吧，”他说，做了个手势，“你妈妈希望你坐在前排，但这由你决定……”

 

“Thanks,” Remus nodded again.  

“谢谢，”雷穆斯再次点头。

 

“See you after, eh?” Gethin patted his shoulder.  

“之后见吧？”盖思温拍了拍他的肩膀。

 

“Yeah. Good,” Remus said, aware that he was speaking in single-syllables.  

“嗯。好，”雷穆斯说道，意识到自己在用单音节的词说话。

 

In the end, Sirius had to nudge him into the church, as he seemed to have forgotten how to move. They made their way slowly to the front, and sat down. Remus could hear people whispering about him; a few of them knew who he was, and the reaction was mixed. He ignored it. He was there for Hope, and no one else.  

最后，西里斯不得不推他进入教堂，因为他似乎忘记了如何移动。他们慢慢走到前面，坐了下来。雷穆斯能听到有人在窃窃私语；他们中的一些人知道他是谁，反应也不一。他无视这一切。他是来为希望而来的，其他人无关紧要。

 

The service itself was a blur, and he barely listened. He just stared at the eagle shaped lectern and tried to conjure up a decent memory of his mother.  

仪式本身是模糊的，他几乎没有听进去。他只是盯着鹰形讲台，试图回忆起他母亲的美好记忆。

 

They didn’t sing a hymn, they played a Joni Mitchell song instead. Hope had never mentioned Joni Mitchell to Remus, but he supposed it must have meant something to her. That was a painful thought. They’d had so little time. It wasn’t fair.  

他们没有唱圣歌，而是播放了一首琼妮·米歇尔的歌。希望从未向雷穆斯提到过琼妮·米歇尔，但他认为这一定对她有特别的意义。这是一个令人痛苦的想法。他们的时间如此短暂。这不公平。

 

Siân was there, of course. Remus recognised her at once - she was the only child present. She was dressed in a cream coloured frock with a black satin sash, and kept her head buried in the lap of an old woman Remus didn’t know - he assumed that was Gethin’s mother, Siân’s grandmother. She cried all the way through, and for some reason that was comforting to Remus. Hope must have been a wonderful mother.  

当然，西安也在那里。雷穆斯立刻认出了她——她是唯一一个在场的孩子。她穿着一件奶油色的连衣裙，系着黑色缎带，把头埋在雷穆斯不认识的一个老妇人的膝盖上——他猜那是盖思温的母亲，西安的祖母。她一直哭泣，这让雷穆斯感到某种安慰。希望一定是一位了不起的母亲。

 

Afterwards, Remus’s legs felt like lead; he was rooted to the spot. He didn’t get up with the rest of the family to walk out (there was no coffin to follow - her body was already at the crematorium, apparently), but waited behind for the church to clear. Sirius waited with him.  

之后，雷穆斯的腿感觉像铅一样沉重，他站在原地动不了。他没有像其他家人那样起身离开（没有棺材跟随——她的遗体显然已经在火葬场了），而是留在后面等教堂清理完毕。西里斯陪着他。

 

When the church was all but empty, Sirius whispered,  

当教堂几乎空了时，西里斯低声说，

 

“You ok?”  

“你还好吗？”

 

Remus nodded.  

雷穆斯点了点头。

 

Sirius touched his knee lightly, but no more than that. “That was really sad. It’s ok if you’re tired and want to go home?”  

西里斯轻轻地碰了碰他的膝盖，但仅此而已。“那真的很伤感。如果你累了想回家也没关系。”

 

“No, it’s fine.” Remus shook his head, “I ought to go. I told Gethin I would. Just. Five more minutes?”  

“不，没事。”雷穆斯摇摇头，“我应该去的。我告诉过盖思温我会来的。只是……再等五分钟？”

 

They had to leave eventually, the caretaker wanted to tidy up.  

他们最终不得不离开，照料员想要打扫卫生。

 

The church hall was very small, and crammed full of people and people’s emotions. Some of them were laughing, reminiscing. Others were still red-nosed and sombre. It was a drab little room, which needed refurbishing; the wooden floorboards were splintering in places, there were notice boards dedicated to drawings by the children who attended sunday school there, and another one for the local scout troup.  

教堂大厅非常小，挤满了人和他们的情感。有些人在笑着，回忆往事。其他人则仍然红着鼻子，神情

 

凝重。那是一个沉闷的小房间，需要翻修；木地板在某些地方已经开裂，墙上贴着孩子们在主日学上绘制的画，还有一个是本地童子军的公告板。

 

Three trestle tables were groaning under the weight of the food people had brought - piles of sandwiches, meat pies, crisps, cheese and pineapple skewers, fruit cake, leftover turkey curry, slices of ham and other cold cuts. It was a dry funeral, and an old lady in the corner was serving weak cups of milky tea. For once in his life, Remus was not hungry.  

三张折叠桌在食物的重量下发出吱吱声——一堆堆的三明治、肉饼、薯片、奶酪和菠萝串、水果蛋糕、剩余的火鸡咖喱、火腿片和其他冷切肉。那是一个干酒葬，角落里的一个老太太在端着稀薄的奶茶。雷穆斯人生中第一次没有感到饥饿。

 

Worst of all, there was a table covered in framed photographs and albums. Most of them were of Hope, and apart from one or two snaps of her as a little girl, not one of them had been taken before 1965. Remus looked at them all, tried to fix the imagine in his mind - a happy, healthy woman who had always tried to do what was best, even when other people let her down.  

最糟糕的是，有一张桌子上摆满了裱框的照片和相册。大多数照片都是希望的，除了几张她小时候的照片外，没有一张是在1965年之前拍的。雷穆斯看着它们，试图在脑海中固定住那个形象——一个幸福、健康的女人，她总是尽力做好事，即使其他人让她失望。

 

“She’d be so glad you came.” Gethin appeared beside him. He reached out and stroked the glass on one of the photo frames. Hope’s black and white face beamed out at him, static and lifeless.  

“她会很高兴你来。”盖思温出现在他身边。他伸手抚摸着一个相框上的玻璃。希望的黑白面孔向他微笑，静止而无生命。

 

“I had to.” Remus said, quietly. Sirius stood at his other shoulder, ready for anything. Remus looked at Gethin, “I wish I had been there. For… well, to say goodbye.”  

“我必须来。”雷穆斯轻声说道。西里斯站在他的另一边，准备好应对任何情况。雷穆斯看着盖思温，“我希望我能在那里。为了……好吧，告别。”

 

“It was very quiet, like she was.” The older man said. “She was awake on Christmas morning, and went to sleep after lunch. There was no pain.”  

“那是非常安静的，就像她一样。”老人说。“她在圣诞节早晨醒着，午饭后就去睡了。没有疼痛。”

 

Remus hadn’t thought about her being in pain. He wished Gethin hadn’t put that in his head.  

雷穆斯没有考虑到她会有疼痛。他希望盖思温没有把这个念头放在他的脑海里。

 

“I know what you’re thinking,” Gethin said, nodding at the photo display, “No pictures of you. It wasn’t deliberate - she put them all in a box for me to send to you, only I’ve lost track of your address…”  

“我知道你在想什么，”盖思温说，指着照片展示，“没有你的照片。这不是故意的——她把所有照片都放在一个盒子里让我寄给你，只是我已经找不到你的地址了……”

 

“I don’t want them.” Remus shook his head.  

“我不想要它们。”雷穆斯摇摇头。

 

“Remus,” Sirius said, softly, “Don’t make any decisions yet.”  

“雷穆斯，”西里斯轻声说道，“不要急于做决定。”

 

Remus just shrugged.  

雷穆斯只是耸耸肩。

 

“There are a few other bits,” Gethin said, eyeing Sirius with some confusion, then looking at Remus again, “I’ll hang onto them as long as you like.”  

“还有一些其他的东西，”盖思温说，看向西里斯有些困惑，然后再次看向雷穆斯，“我会保留它们，只要你愿意。”

 

“Bits?” Remus looked at him blankly.  

“什么东西？”雷穆斯茫然地看着他。

 

“Things she wanted you to have,” Gethin said. “Not money, or anything--”  

“她希望你得到的东西，”盖思温说。“不是钱，或其他东西——”

 

“I’m not interested in money!” Remus said, sharply.  

“我对钱不感兴趣！”雷穆斯严厉地说。

 

Gethin frowned, he looked hurt. His eyes were rimmed red, with dark rings under them, like smudges of coal dust. Remus pursed his lips, and took a step back, shaking his head.  

盖思温皱起了眉头，他看起来很受伤。他的眼睛周围泛红，下方有黑圈，就像煤灰的痕迹。雷穆斯抿了抿嘴，退后一步，摇摇头。

 

“I’m sorry. I can’t be here. I’m sorry.” And with that, turned and walked straight out of the hall.  

“对不起。我不能待在这里。对不起。”说完，他转身径直走出了大厅。

 

It had stopped raining by now, but the grass was still wet and the scent of delicious earth rising all around. There was a group of old men sitting on some benches outside. They’d loosened their ties and sat slouched, smoking and passing around an illicit flask of something very strong smelling. Remus tutted, disgusted, and kept walking, wanting to get away from everything.  

现在雨停了，但草地仍然湿漉漉的，四周弥漫着美味泥土的气息。外面有一群老人坐在长椅上。他们松开了领带，倚坐着，抽烟并传递着一瓶味道很强的非法饮品。雷穆斯嗤之以鼻，感到厌恶，继续走着，想要远离一切。

 

“Remus!” Sirius came jogging up the path to catch him, Lily, James and Peter not far behind.  

“雷穆斯！”西里斯跑步上前追上他，莉莉、詹姆斯和彼得紧随其后。

 

“I want to go.” Remus said.  

“我想离开。”雷穆斯说。

 

“You can come back to mum and dad’s if you want?” James suggested, “Mum said she’ll do us all dinner.”  

“你可以回妈妈和爸爸那儿，如果你愿意的话？”詹姆斯建议道，“妈妈说她会为我们做晚饭。”

 

“No,” Remus shook his head, he grabbed Sirius arm, and looked at him, imploring, “Please, can we just go back to the flat? Just you and me?”  

“不，”雷穆斯摇摇头，他抓住西里斯的手臂，恳求道，“请，我们能不能回公寓？就你和我？”

 

“Of course we can,” Sirius put his own calm hand over Remus’s desperate one, and Remus felt his heart begin to steady.  

“当然可以，”西里斯把他平静的手放在雷穆斯急切的手上，雷穆斯感到自己的心开始平静下来。

 

So that was what they did, Remus promising himself that he would apologise to the Potters and his friends another time.  

于是他们就这样做了，雷穆斯向自己承诺，他会在其他时间向波特一家和朋友们道歉。

 

But if he’d been hoping for a respite from the rest of the world, to lock himself away with Sirius and pretend that just for a moment, nothing else mattered, then he was in for a disappointment.  

但如果他希望从这个世界中得到短暂的喘息，与西里斯一起锁住自己，假装这一刻其他一切都不重要，那他将会感到失望。

 

There was an owl sitting on top of the mantelpiece when they got in, with a note tied to its scaly leg.  

他们进门时，发现一只猫头鹰坐在壁炉架上，腿上绑着一张纸条。

Remus.

My condolences(哀悼).

Please meet me at the Auror’s Office at 9am on Monday.

A. Moody.

* * *

I've looked at life from both sides now

From win and lose and still somehow

It's life's illusions I recall

I really don't know life at all

* * *

Chapter 156~160Chapter Summary

156. The War: Auror Headquarters (2018-07-09)
157. The War: The Pack (2018-07-11)
158. The War: Captive (2018-07-16)
159. The War: Submission (2018-07-27)
160. The War: Foot Soldiers (2018-07-31)

Chapter 156: The War: Auror Headquarters 

Monday 8th January 1979

“Please let me come with you?” Was the last thing Sirius said as Remus left the flat early Monday morning.

“I’ll be fine.” Remus shook his head, trying to give Sirius a reassuring smile. He didn’t say what he was thinking, which was ‘how would that look?!’. It was bad enough he’d been summoned to Moody’s actual office at the ministry; what would he think if Remus brought his boyfriend along for moral support?

Still, Remus had to admit that he had a difficult time leaving their cosy little home that morning. He’d barely left the bedroom since they’d returned from the funeral, let alone got dressed or left the flat. To go to the ministry he had to wear full robes for the first time since school, which helped a little bit - at least he’d be able to blend in.

The visitors entrance for the Ministry of Magic was about twenty minutes’ walk from Soho, and Remus found the early morning stroll more pleasant than he’d expected. It was a crisp, cold January day, and his breath turned white in the winter air. Peter was there to meet him,

“Hiya Moony,” Wormtail smiled up at him, giving him an awkward pat on the arm, “How’re you holding up?”

“Oh, you know.” Remus shrugged. Grief was a funny thing. He never knew if he was doing it right.

“Looking forward to saturday!”

“Yeah, me too.”

The full moon was due on the thirteenth. So far since Hogwarts the marauders had got away with apparating (Peter side-alonged) to the most remote places possible and transforming there. So far they’d been to the Brecon Beacons, the Outer Hebrides, Dartmoor and the Forest of Dean. No one in the Order had brought it up yet, though Remus supposed they all assumed he was registered.  

十三号是满月。从霍格沃茨毕业以来，掠夺者们已经多次使用幻影移形（Peter 带着他们）到最偏远的地方并在那里变形。到目前为止，他们已经去过布雷肯比肯、外赫布里底群岛、达特穆尔和迪恩森林。虽然没人提起过，但Remus认为大家都认为他已经登记了。

 

Peter and Remus entered the ministry via a telephone box. Peter needed to be there, because after Remus had stated his business, a small silver visitors badge dropped out of the telephone’s change slot. Wormtail picked it up quickly, and muttered the incantation to turn it to tin, before giving it to Remus.  

Peter 和 Remus 通过电话亭进入魔法部。Peter 必须在场，因为Remus陈述完他的来意后，一个小银色的访客徽章从电话的零钱槽中掉了出来。Wormtail 快速捡起来，念了咒语将其变成锡，然后递给了 Remus。

 

They descended into the ministry atrium, which was heaving with activity. It was an enormous hall, bigger than Gringotts, with rows of fireplaces lining the walls. Green lights flashed intermittently from each hearth as wizards and witches arrived for work.  

他们走进魔法部大厅，那里人声鼎沸。那是一个巨大的大厅，比古灵阁还大，墙壁上排列着一排排壁炉。绿色的光芒从每个壁炉中间歇性闪烁着，巫师们陆续到达工作。

 

Peter led Remus through the security stand, where his wand was weighed by a mean-spirited wizard with a long beard. Remus was incredibly grateful to have a friend with him, and secretly quite glad it was quiet, genial Peter, rather than Sirius who had a tendency to get a bit overprotective of Remus when it came to the wizarding community.  

Peter 带着 Remus 通过安全站，那里有一个长胡子的刻薄巫师称量了他的魔杖。Remus 非常感激有朋友陪在身边，内心也很高兴是安静、和善的 Peter，而不是天狼星，他对巫师界的事总是有点过度保护 Remus。

 

Next they moved through to another hall with a set of lifts, and entered the nearest one.  

接着他们走到另一个有一排电梯的大厅，并进入最近的一部。

 

“You’re on level two,” Peter explained chirpily, “I’m with the Floo Network Authority on four. Do you need me to show you where the Auror’s office is?”  

“你在二楼，”Peter 轻快地解释道，“我在四楼的飞路网络管理局。需要我带你去傲罗办公室吗？”

 

Remus thought he would quite like Peter’s help, if only Peter wasn’t so clearly enjoying having the upper hand.  

Remus 想他确实需要 Peter 的帮助，只是 Peter 显然很享受自己占上风的感觉。

 

“No,” he smiled, “I’ll manage. Cheers mate.”  

“不用了，”他笑了笑，“我能应付的。谢谢，兄弟。”

 

Peter gave him a kind smile as he left the lift. Remus nodded back, and the door slid closed.  

Peter 离开电梯时对他友好地笑了笑。Remus 点了点头，门滑动关上了。

 

Soon enough the tannoy announced; “Level two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement; including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services.”  

很快广播宣布：“二楼，魔法法律执行部；包括不正当使用魔法办公室、傲罗总部和威森加摩行政服务。”

 

Remus shuffled his way out of the lift and onto the corridor. The lift doors closed behind him with a ‘ping’ and Remus stood there for a few moments, blindsided. It was a very busy hallway, wizards and witches striding up and down, some deep in conversation, others hastily scribbling down notes on scraps of parchment - and some of them muttering to themselves. Over his head, purple paper aeroplanes zoomed back and forth, fluttering into the office doors which lined the corridor.  

Remus 慢吞吞地走出电梯，进入走廊。电梯门在他身后“叮”地一声关上了，Remus 站在那里愣了几秒钟。走廊非常繁忙，巫师们来回穿梭，有些在深谈，有些匆忙地在羊皮纸片上写笔记——还有一些人在自言自语。在他头顶上，紫色的纸飞机来回飞舞，扑向排在走廊上的办公室门。

 

He wished he hadn’t been so proud now, and asked Pete to walk him to the right office. There had to be a sign somewhere…  

他现在真希望自己没有那么骄傲，应该让 Peter 带他去正确的办公室。一定有指示牌在某处……

 

“Lupin!” A loud and familiar voice boomed. Remus turned around with some relief and smiled, seeing Ferox barrelling towards him, hand raised in salutation.  

“Lupin！”一个响亮而熟悉的声音响起。Remus 松了一口气，转身微笑，看到 Ferox 向他跑来，手举起来打招呼。

 

“Hi,” he said.  

“嗨，”他说道。

 

“Lost? Come with me!”  

“迷路了？跟我来！”

 

Remus followed Ferox along the hallway, past office after office until they reached an elaborate door with a carved wood frame. Auror Headquarters.  

Remus 跟着 Ferox 沿着走廊走过一个个办公室，直到他们来到一个有雕刻木框的精致门前。傲罗总部。

 

“Nervous?” Ferox glanced at him sideways. Remus looked back,  

“紧张吗？”Ferox 斜眼看了他一眼。Remus 回看过去，

 

“Is it that obvious?”  

“那么明显吗？”

 

Ferox laughed and clapped him on the shoulder,  

Ferox 笑着拍了拍他的肩膀，

 

“I’d be concerned if you weren’t. C’mon now, it’s only Moody.” And he pushed the door open with one big hand, the other still on Remus’s shoulder, as if to stop him from running away.  

“如果你不紧张，我才会担心。来吧，现在只是穆迪。”他说着用一只大手推开了门，另一只手仍放在 Remus 的肩膀上，仿佛在防止他逃跑。

 

As a child, Remus had had some experience with muggle law enforcement. Only ever for silly things like running away from the Home, or being caught ‘causing a disturbance’ - which usually meant he was just somewhere public and other people would prefer him not to be. The police were extra rough with you, once they clocked you were a St Edmund’s boy, they’d call you things and shove you in their car, or else give off thinly veiled threats of physical violence if you didn’t do as you were told. As a result, Remus had never felt that comfortable around authority figures, even if he was a poshboy nowadays.  

小时候，Remus 曾与麻瓜执法部门打过交道。仅仅是因为一些愚蠢的事情，比如从家里逃跑，或被抓到“制造骚乱”——通常意味着他只是在某个公共场所，而其他人不希望他在那里。一旦警察发现你是圣埃德蒙的孩子，他们会对你格外粗暴，他们会叫你一些难听的话，把你推上车，或者在你不按他们说的做时发出隐约的暴力威胁。因此，即使他现在是个上流社会的孩子，Remus 也从未对权威人物感到过舒服。

 

He wasn’t sure exactly how similar the Aurors were to muggle police. He’d only met Moody, Frank and Alice so far. Moody was completely terrifying, but Remus had known him long enough now that he was used to him. Alice and Frank were very nice, very earnest people - but then, they didn’t know what he really was.  

他不确定傲罗与麻瓜警察有多相似。他到目前为止只见过穆迪、Frank 和 Alice。穆迪是完全令人恐惧的，但 Remus 认识他时间足够长，已经习惯了他。Alice 和 Frank 是非常好、非常认真的人——不过，他们并不知道他真正是什么。

 

The inside of the office was very busy, with rows of desks divided up into cubicles. There were posters of criminals, magically enchanted maps and printed lists on notice boards

 

 all around the walls, and memos whizzing back and forth. But the most striking thing about it for Remus was the incredibly concentrated scent of strong magic - and dark magic too.  

办公室内部非常繁忙，一排排桌子分隔成隔间。墙上到处都是罪犯的海报、魔法地图和公告栏上的打印清单，还有来回飞舞的备忘录。但对 Remus 来说，最显眼的还是那浓烈的强大魔法气味——还有黑魔法的气息。

 

Ferox, hand still on Remus’s shoulder, steered him towards a desk near the back corner, which had the best vantage point over the rest of the chaotic office.  

Ferox 仍然把手放在 Remus 的肩膀上，把他引导到靠后角的一个桌子，那是俯瞰整个混乱办公室的最佳视角。

 

Moody’s desk and the shelves around it were cluttered with weird and wonderful magical devices; whirring telescopes, glowing crystals, strange humming orbs. Moody himself was bent over a map. Forgetting his nerves, Remus peered over his shoulder to look - he’d never got over his interest in cartography - and Moody barked,  

穆迪的桌子和周围的架子上堆满了奇怪而奇妙的魔法装置；嗡嗡作响的望远镜、发光的水晶、奇怪的嗡嗡球。穆迪本人则弯腰看着一张地图。忘记了紧张的 Remus 趴在他肩膀上看——他对制图的兴趣从未减退过——穆迪吼道，

 

“Never sneak up on an Auror, Lupin.”  

“永远不要偷偷接近一个傲罗，Lupin。”

Remus jumped back, alarmed, and Moody turned to face him, grinning. His mad eye swivelled sickly in its socket.  

Remus 吓了一跳，退后一步，穆迪转身面对他，咧嘴笑了笑。他那只疯眼在眼窝里病态地转动着。

 

“Leo,” Moody reached out and shook hands with Ferox, then with Remus. “Glad to see you’re nice and punctual. Have a seat.”  

“Leo，”穆迪伸出手与 Ferox 握手，然后与 Remus 握手。“很高兴看到你准时到达。坐下吧。”

 

He gestured at a long velvet-covered seat against the wall of his cubicle which hadn’t been there a moment ago. Remus and Ferox sat down as Moody cast a spell which muted the noise around them, creating a bubble of peace around his desk that was not dissimilar to James and Sirius’s silencing charms.  

他指了指靠在他隔间墙上的一张长长的天鹅绒椅子，那椅子刚刚还不存在。Remus 和 Ferox 坐下，穆迪施了一个静音咒，使他们周围形成了一个宁静的泡泡，这与 James 和天狼星的静音咒非常相似。

 

Remus was relieved by the quiet, but Moody’s spell had done nothing to mitigate the overwhelming scent of power which filled his nostrils, swam down his throat and filled up his chest with glorious rich syrupy magic. He tried to relax, to let it find its place in him rather than fighting it, but he felt ever so slightly drunk with it all the same.  

Remus 对这片宁静感到宽慰，但穆迪的咒语并没有减轻那充斥他鼻腔、顺着喉咙游走，充满他胸腔的那股浓烈的力量气息。这种辉煌而浓稠的魔法让他感觉稍微有点醉。他试着放松，让这种力量在他体内找到自己的位置，而不是抗拒它，但他仍然感觉有点微醺。

 

“Once again, Lupin,” Moody said gruffly, sitting down in his office chair which looked like a plush green leather armchair, but swivelled on one stem. “I was sorry to hear about your loss. I didn’t know Hope myself, but--”  

“再一次，Lupin，”穆迪粗声说道，坐在他的办公椅上，那椅子看起来像一张豪华的绿色皮革扶手椅，但能在一个轴上旋转。“听说你失去了亲人，我很遗憾。我自己不认识 Hope，但——”

 

“That’s ok.” Remus said quickly, “I barely knew her either.”  

“没关系。”Remus 迅速说道，“我也几乎不认识她。”

 

He was keen to keep his mother out of any conversation he had today. He hadn’t the strength for two things at once, and if Moody had a mission for him, then that had to be his main concern.  

他不想在今天的谈话中提及他的母亲。他没有精力同时处理两件事，如果穆迪有任务要交给他，那必须是他主要的关注点。

 

Moody - who was either an excellent legilimens or simply extremely astute and empathetic, nodded manfully and continued.  

穆迪——不论他是一个出色的摄神取念师还是只是非常机敏和有同理心——男人般地点了点头，继续说道。

 

“Straight to business, then.” He said, “Good chap.” He swivelled slightly in his chair to pick up the map he’d been looking at, and handed it to Remus.  

“那么直接谈正事吧。”他说，“好小伙。”他稍微转动椅子，拿起他一直在看的地图，递给 Remus。

 

Remus took it eagerly, and looked. It was a map of Britain and Ireland, but not like ones he had seen before - there were no roads marked, no towns or cities, only the woodland areas, rendered in mossy green splodges of ink. Some of these splodges seemed to shimmer and twinkle, as if there were stars hiding beneath the tree branches.  

Remus 迫不及待地接过地图，仔细看着。这是一张英国和爱尔兰的地图，但与他以前见过的不同——上面没有标注道路，没有城镇或城市，只有以苔绿色墨迹描绘的森林区域。这些斑点有些似乎在闪烁，好像树枝下藏着星星。

 

“Got that from the Control of Magical Creatures office,” Moody explained, “Thanks to Ferox here. Know what it is, lad?”  

“从魔法生物管理办公室得到的，”穆迪解释道，“多亏了 Ferox 在这里。知道这是什么吗，小子？”

 

“It’s…” Remus poured over it, “It’s all of the forests with magic in it? Or magical creatures?”  

“这是……”Remus 仔细研究道，“所有有魔法的森林？还是有魔法生物的森林？”

 

“Exactly.” Moody nodded, looking very pleased with him, “We’ve noticed that most of the werewolf sightings over the past few years have been in enchanted woodland, forests with a denser population of magical creatures. Now, that could just mean they’re keeping their ears to the ground for you-know-who, or that there are other creatures working with them…”  

“正是如此。”穆迪点点头，看起来对他很满意，“我们注意到，过去几年大多数狼人目击事件都发生在被施了魔法的森林里，那些魔法生物密集的森林。现在，这可能意味着他们在为你知道的那个人打探消息，或者有其他生物在与他们合作……”

 

Or because the scent of all that natural magic is just too good to resist, Remus thought, his own blood fizzing like champagne just from the twenty or so powerful wizards nearby. He didn’t say this, of course, for his own sake.  

或者是因为所有那些自然魔法的气息太难以抗拒，Remus 想着，仅仅是附近二十多个强大巫师的存在，就让他的血液像香槟一样起泡。当然，他不会为了自己的安全说出来。

 

“...and for the last couple of full moons there’s been a lot of activity here,” Moody pointed a stubby, scarred finger at a point on the map, somewhere in the midlands.  

“……而在过去几个月圆之夜，这里有很多活动，”穆迪用他粗短的、有疤痕的手指指着地图上的一个点，那是英格兰中部的某个地方。

 

“Why are you telling me now?” Remus asked, “If you’ve been following them for months?”  

“你们跟踪了他们几个月，为什么现在才告诉我？”Remus 问道。

 

“It’s time.” Moody said, fixing him with a hard stare, one blue eye, one brown. “Greyback’s in the country for the first time since the sixties; it’s been confirmed.”  

“是时候了。”穆迪说道，用一种坚硬的目光看着他，一只蓝眼睛，一只棕眼睛。“自六十年代以来，Greyback 第一次进入这个国家；已经确认了。”

 

“Oh.” Remus pursed his lips to quell the rage inside him, rearing up like a cobra, showing its teeth. Where is he?! Take me to him right now! “Right.”  

“哦。”Remus 抿着嘴唇压抑着内心的愤怒，这种愤怒像眼镜蛇一样抬起头，露出牙齿。他在哪里？！现在就带我去找他！“好的。”

 

“Last time you made contact you came back with some good information,” Moody continued, “Those who want to join Greyback need to transform with the pack three times, that right?”  

“上次你接触到的信息很好，”穆迪继续说道，“那些想加入 Greyback 的人需要和狼群一起变形三次，对吗？”

 

“Mm.” Remus nodded. He wanted to stand up and pace, or do something physical, but he couldn’t afford for either Ferox or Moody to know that there was anything wrong.  

“嗯。”Remus 点点头。他想站起来走动，或者做一些体力活动，但他不能让 Ferox 或穆迪知道有什么不对劲。

 

“And the next full moon is on Saturday?”  

“下次满月是在星期六？”

 

Remus nodded. He looked at Ferox, then Moody again,  

Remus 点点头。他看了看 Ferox，然后又看向穆迪，

 

“You want me to go already? To start… to…”  

“你想让我现在就去？开始……？”

 

“Just for the moons,” Ferox said, his voice calming, “Just until they trust you.”  

“只是为了满月，”Ferox 说道，他的声音很平静，“直到他们信任你为止。”

 

“But once they trust me,” Remus said, looking at his hands, “Then… I need to meet him, right?”  

“但一旦他们信任我，”Remus 低头看着自己的手说道，“那么……我需要见他，对吗？”

 

“Let’s see

 

 how things go.” Moody said, choosing his words carefully. “We’ve three months to plan for that.”  

“让我们看看事情的发展。”穆迪谨慎地选择着词语说道。“我们还有三个月的时间来计划。”

 

“Ok.”  

“好的。”

 

Remus didn’t know what else to say. His head was full and his nerves were raw and he felt almost ready to explode, but for some weird reason he just sat there like a polite schoolboy, listening to Moody lay out the plan.  

Remus 不知道还能说什么。他的脑子很满，神经很紧张，感觉自己快要爆炸了，但不知为何，他就像一个礼貌的学生一样坐在那里，听穆迪讲述计划。

 

He was given a lot of rules. He would have to go alone. He could take his wand, but nothing else. He could tell nobody, not even the other members of the order, not even his best friends. Ferox began suggesting things Remus could say or do to get the pack to trust him, but Remus ignored him. He knew what to do.  

他被给了很多规定。他必须独自前往。他可以带上他的魔杖，但不能带其他东西。他不能告诉任何人，甚至是其他成员，甚至是他最好的朋友。Ferox 开始建议 Remus 可以说或做些什么来让狼群信任他，但 Remus 没有理会。他知道该怎么做。

 

“I’ll walk you out, shall I, Lupin?” Ferox said finally, with a note of paternal kindness.  

“我送你出去，好吗，Lupin？”Ferox 最后说道，带着一点父亲般的善意。

 

“Thank you,” Remus said, standing up quickly.  

“谢谢，”Remus 迅速站起来说道。

 

“You’re a man of few words, Lupin,” Moody said, standing up too, holding out his hand once more for Remus to shake, “But I’ve every faith in you. I’ll send the coordinates before Saturday. Make sure you’re at home to receive them.”  

“你是个沉默寡言的人，Lupin，”穆迪也站起来，伸出手再次与 Remus 握手，“但我对你充满信心。我会在星期六前把坐标发送给你。确保你在家接收。”

 

Remus nodded blankly, shaking the proffered hand. Just as he had guided him in, Ferox led Remus back out of the Auror Headquarters.  

Remus 茫然地点点头，握住了递过来的手。就像他带他进来一样，Ferox 领着 Remus 离开了傲罗总部。

 

“Alright there, fella?” Ferox asked, once they were clear of the doors. The corridor was a bit quieter than it had been at nine o’clock.  

“还好吗，伙计？”一离开门口，Ferox 问道。走廊比九点时安静了不少。

 

“Yes. Fine.”  

“是的，没事。”

 

“If there’s anything you think you need, if you want me to ask Moody for something that will help, you can just--”  

“如果你觉得需要什么，如果你想让我问穆迪要一些有帮助的东西，你可以——”

 

“How will it help?” Remus asked, suddenly, stopping in the middle of the hallway. He twitched his thumb and cast muffliato, without any effort at all. Ferox blinked, surprised,  

“这有什么用？”Remus 突然问道，停在走廊中间。他微微动了动拇指，毫不费力地施了一个消音咒。Ferox 眨了眨眼，惊讶地问，

 

“How will what help?”  

“什么有用？”

 

“Me, meeting Greyback? I’ve met three members of his pack now, and it’s only made things worse each time.”  

“我，见 Greyback？我现在已经见过他手下的三名成员，每次都只会让事情变得更糟。”

 

“That’s not true. You’ve given us some extremely valuable information.”  

“那不是真的。你给了我们一些非常有价值的信息。”

 

“If I have,” Remus said, “Then I want to know what you’re using it for.”  

“如果我有，”Remus 说道，“那么我想知道你们是用它来做什么的。”

 

“To win the war, Remus.” Ferox shook his head.  

“为了赢得战争，Remus。”Ferox 摇了摇头。

 

“When I met Castor last year,” Remus said, his voice very low, but more out of anger than a desire to be discreet, “He told me in no uncertain terms that they were planning an attack. I told Dumbledore, and what happened? Nothing. The attack went ahead. So I’ll ask again. If I’m gathering information for the Order, if I’m risking my life to do it, then I want to know what for. It’s obviously not to save lives.”  

 

“去年我见到 Castor 时，”Remus 说道，他的声音非常低，但更多是出于愤怒，而不是想要保密，“他明确告诉我，他们在策划一次袭击。我告诉了 Dumbledore，然后呢？什么都没发生。袭击照常进行。所以我再问一遍。如果我是为了凤凰社收集信息，如果我冒着生命危险这么做，那么我想知道是为了什么。显然不是为了救人。”

Remus, that was an extremely complicated situation--”

“Explain it.”

“We couldn’t act, we couldn’t let the werewolves know you were telling Dumbledore anything, we had to preserve your connection with them--”

“What?!” Remus stared at him, “People died! People had their whole lives ruined! Because of me?!”

“You can’t think about it that way.”

“How would you think about it?! I trusted him! I thought I was doing the right thing!”

“Remus, calm down !”

 

Remus realised that he couldn’t. He wished he could apparate right then and there, but nothing happened when he tried, so he marched towards the lift instead.
Remus 发现他做不到。他希望自己能立刻幻影移形，但试了试什么也没发生，所以他朝电梯走去。

“Don’t follow me.” He growled at Ferox, who held the doors open, stopping him from leaving.
“别跟着我。”他对 Ferox 咆哮道，Ferox 挡住了门，不让他离开。

“You need to get your head straight, kid.” Ferox said, very seriously. “This is war. It’s not noble, and it’s not always about saving individual lives. You need to get used to that in time for Saturday.”
“你需要清醒一下，孩子。”Ferox 非常严肃地说。“这是战争。它并不高尚，也不总是关于拯救个人生命。你需要在星期六之前习惯这一点。”

“Don’t worry.” Remus turned his head, glaring at the panel of buttons. The doors began to slide shut, grinding loudly as Remus tested his magical strength against Ferox’s physical muscle. “I’ll be ready.”
“别担心。”Remus 转过头，瞪着按钮面板。门开始滑动关上，发出刺耳的声音，Remus 在试探自己的魔法力量与 Ferox 的体力。“我会准备好的。”

The doors shut, Ferox snatching his fingers clear at the very last second, and Remus began to move up, back towards the real world.
门关上了，Ferox 在最后一秒抽回了手指，Remus 开始上升，回到了现实世界。

Remus had barely stepped out of the visitor-entrance phonebox and he was standing before his own front door - he’d stored all of that leftover magic up like a battery, and he only needed to have the slightest want and the magic did the rest. He remembered the curse Snape had thrown at James, which he’d deflected on the last day of school. It would be a useful skill, if only he could depend on it.
Remus 刚刚走出访客入口的电话亭，他就站在自己的前门前——他像电池一样储存了所有剩余的魔法，他只需稍有欲望，魔法就会完成剩下的。他记得最后一天上课时，Snape 向 James 扔的诅咒，他把它反弹了回去。如果他能依靠它，这将是一项有用的技能。

Not only was he full of magic, but his temper had reached boiling point now that he was home. It was a peculiar feeling - similar to the moments before transforming, right before the mind-numbing pain kicked in. A howling, grasping animal longing. God he needed to… he needed…
他不仅充满了魔法，而且回到家后他的脾气已经达到了沸点。这是一种奇怪的感觉——类似于变形前的时刻，就在让人麻木的痛苦开始之前。一种嚎叫、抓住的动物渴望。天啊，他需要……他需要……

“Sirius?!” He burst through the door, yelling. No luck, the flat was empty. Remus gave a frustrated growl and kicked the wall, knocking a hole through the plasterboard. “Fuck.” He muttered. Sirius come here .
“天狼星？！”他冲进门，大喊道。运气不好，公寓是空的。Remus 挫败地低吼一声，踢了墙壁一脚，踢出了一个洞。“该死。”他咕哝道。天狼星，快来这里。

He pressed his palm against the top of the wall and forced some magic out. The hole at the base of the wall closed over at once, thank goodness. It wasn’t enough. He had more; he needed to vent it, a release valve. He pulled off his robes and then his jumper, tossing them onto the couch, pacing the room in his thin t-shirt and trousers. He could go for a run. He could apparate to the Lake District for a few hours and just run around like a madman. He could turn the wall to sponge and start punching it until he’d run out of energy. He could drink himself into oblivion. As long as he did something .
他把手掌按在墙顶，释放出一些魔法。墙基的洞立刻合上了，谢天谢地。这还不够。他有更多的魔法；他需要发泄，找到一个释放阀。他脱下长袍，然后是毛衣，扔到沙发上，穿着薄T恤和裤子在房间里踱步。他可以去跑步。他可以幻影移形到湖区，几个小时内像疯子一样跑来跑去。他可以把墙变成海绵，然后一直打拳，直到耗尽能量。他可以喝到失去意识。只要做点什么。

“Moony?!”
“Moony？！”

The front door opened, and there was Sirius.
前门打开了，天狼星出现了。

“You’re here!”
“你在这儿！”

“Yeah, weirdest thing,” Sirius closed the door behind him. He smelled of petrol and motor oil and leather, and Remus felt himself stiffen instantly. Oh. That would work. “I was working on the bike up the road, and then… I dunno, I could have sworn I heard your voice. But if you only just got back then it can't have been--”
“是啊，真是奇怪，”天狼星关上了身后的门。他闻起来有汽油、机油和皮革的味道，Remus 立刻觉得自己僵硬了。哦。那会管用。“我刚才在前面的路上修车，然后……我不知道，我敢发誓我听到了你的声音。但是如果你刚回来，那就不可能是——”

Remus couldn’t take it anymore, he crossed the room in two strides and pushed Sirius up against the door, kissing him hard. Sirius kissed him back, eager to please as always. Remus pressed harder, taking Sirius’s lovely white wrists, smeared with oil, holding them and pushing a knee between his legs. He began to kiss down Sirius's neck, next, nipping at the soft flesh there, and Sirius gasped,
Remus 再也忍不住了，他两步跨过房间，把天狼星推到门上，狠狠地吻他。天狼星回吻着，一如既往地渴望取悦。Remus 更加用力地压着，抓住天狼星可爱的白皙手腕，上面沾满了油，握住它们，把膝盖推到他的双腿之间。他开始吻着天狼星的脖子，轻咬那里的柔软肉体，天狼星喘息着，

“Bloody hell, are you all right?”
“见鬼，你还好吗？”

“Mmm.” Remus moaned, “Just want to…”
“嗯。”Remus 呻吟道，“只是想要……”

Sirius moved his hip slightly, pressing into Remus’s rigid cock - it felt like electricity, and Remus almost lost control altogether, squeezing Sirius’s wrists, slamming his eyes shut as he fought to hang on. He wasn’t the only one that felt it,
天狼星稍微移动了他的臀部，压向 Remus 硬挺的阴茎——感觉像电流一样，Remus 差点完全失控，紧握天狼星的手腕，紧闭双眼，努力保持镇定。他不是唯一一个有这种感觉的人，

“Fuck,” Sirius panted, helpless in Remus’s grip, “Was that you? You feel… what… what’s…”
“该死，”天狼星喘息道，在 Remus 的握力下无助，“那是你吗？你感觉……什么……这是什么……”

“Magic,” Remus managed to stammer, eyes still closed, rolling his forehead against Sirius shoulder dizzily, “There was so much… I just… um…”
“魔法，”Remus 结结巴巴地说，眼睛仍然闭着，头晕目眩地把额头靠在天狼星的肩膀上，“有很多……我只是……呃……”

And suddenly it was Sirius who was in control, he’d turned the tables and now he was pulling Remus to the bedroom, and thank god the flat was small, and thank god there was no need anymore for silencing charms or secrecy, because this was simply not the time .
突然间，天狼星掌控了局面，他扭转了局势，现在他正拉着 Remus 走向卧室，谢天谢地公寓很小，谢天谢地不再需要消音咒或保密了，因为这根本不是时候。

“Need you,” Sirius was saying incoherently, pulling off his shirt and then tugging at Remus’s, black greasy fingerprints getting everywhere, “Need to feel you everywhere...”

“需要你，”天狼星含糊不清地说着，脱下自己的衬衫，然后拉扯 Remus 的衬衫，黑色的油污指印到处都是，“需要你无处不在……”

“Yes,” Remus returned, intoxicated, “Yes yes yes…”
“是的，”Remus 陶醉地回应道，“是的是的是的……”

Whatever he was feeling, he knew Sirius could feel it too, as he pushed the magic outwards, filling the room with it, igniting every touch.
无论他感觉到什么，他知道天狼星也能感觉到，因为他把魔法向外释放，充满了整个房间，点燃了每一个触碰。

Remus groaned as their bare skin finally met and Sirius closed his eyes and shuddered. Grasping fingers and gritted teeth. Any sense of concern or shame was obliterated by the heat erupting between them. Remus gave in and thought of nothing else as he selfishly arched and bucked against Sirius, who kept feverishly whispering, “Oh Moony, Moony…” over and over. Their fierce rhythm increased as they began to tense and contract. Gasping as the world exploded, for a few blissful seconds everything went white.
当他们的裸露皮肤终于接触到一起时，Remus 呻吟着，天狼星闭上眼睛，颤抖着。紧握的手指和咬紧的牙齿。他们之间爆发的热情消除了任何顾虑或羞耻感。Remus 投降了，只想着别的，任由自己自私地弓起身体在天狼星身上蹭动，天狼星不停地狂热地低语，“哦 Moony，Moony……”一遍又一遍。他们激烈的节奏加快，开始紧绷和收缩。当世界爆炸时，他们喘息着，几秒钟的幸福时刻一片空白。

That wasn’t enough. They had to go twice more before Sirius was satisfied, and Remus still felt like he could run a marathon.
这还不够。他们又进行了两次，天狼星才满意，而 Remus 仍然觉得自己可以跑一场马拉松。

“If you're planning to visit the Auror’s Office again,” Sirius breathed hoarsely, “I’m going to need some warning.”
“如果你打算再去一次傲罗办公室，”天狼星沙哑地说，“我需要一些预警。”

“Sor--" Remus started, but Sirius clapped a hand over his mouth, grinning,
“对—”Remus 开始说，但天狼星捂住了他的嘴，咧嘴笑着，

“Don’t you dare apologise. I mean fucking hell.”
“你敢道歉试试。我是说，见鬼了。”

Remus laughed, pulling his hand away. He waved a hand at the window lazily, and it slid open, letting cool winter air in.
Remus 笑了，把手拉开。他懒洋洋地挥了挥手，窗户滑开了，凉爽的冬日空气进来了。

“Wow,” Sirius raised his eyebrows, “How long does that last?”
“哇，”天狼星挑起眉毛，“这会持续多久？”

“It's going away,” Remus said, closing his eyes. It was; he could feel his heart slowing down, his muscles relaxing. “Last time Snape’s curse drained it, so I s'pose any kind if counter magic works.”
“正在消退，”Remus 说，闭上眼睛。确实如此；他感觉到自己的心跳慢了下来，肌肉放松了。“上次 Snape 的诅咒把它耗尽了，所以我想任何形式的反魔法都有效。”

“Well I’d prefer this to cursing you…” Sirius rolled over and stroked Remus’s bare hip.
“我宁愿这样也不愿诅咒你……”天狼星翻身，抚摸着 Remus 裸露的臀部。

“Mm.” Remus murmured in agreement, eyes still closed.
“嗯。”Remus 喃喃道，表示同意，眼睛仍然闭着。

“So…” Sirius said, his hand still now, his voice more solemn, “It either went really well or really badly at the ministry…?”
“所以……”天狼星说，手停了下来，声音更为严肃，“在魔法部的情况要么非常好，要么非常糟糕……？”

“Both.” Remus flung his arms over his face. “Do we have to talk about it?”
“两者都有。”Remus 把胳膊甩到脸上。“我们必须谈谈吗？”

“Yeah I think we do.”
“是的，我想我们必须谈谈。”

Remus sighed heavily. He sat up, reaching for his cigarettes.
Remus 重重地叹了口气。他坐起来，拿起香烟。

“Greyback’s in England.” He started.
“Greyback 在英国。”他开始说道。

Sirius sat up at once, frowning. He took a cigarette from the box Remus held out, placed it between his lips, lit it, and looked at Remus very seriously.
天狼星立刻坐起来，皱着眉头。他从 Remus 递出的盒子里拿出一根烟，放在嘴里，点燃，然后非常严肃地看着 Remus。

“Tell me everything.”
“告诉我所有的事情。”

And Remus did.
然后 Remus 开始讲述。

 

Chapter 157: The War: The PackOnce upon a sunshine,

Before the final bell,

I told my story to big boy,

With connections straight from Hell.

His fiddle was his sweetheart,

He was her favourite beau,

And hear me saying was all he playing

Them songs from long ago.

And then I told my story to the cannibal king

He said baby, baby, shake that thing.

 

Saturday 13th January 1979

First Moon

 “I hate this.” Sirius said, chain smoking.

“我讨厌这样。”天狼星边抽烟边说。

“I know you do.” Remus replied. He rubbed his temples. He was getting a headache, not uncommon on a full moon.
“我知道。”Remus 回应道。他揉了揉太阳穴。他开始头疼了，这在满月时并不罕见。

“I mean I really hate this.” Sirius puffed, staring out of the window. He stood there, one arm folded across his narrow waist, other arm crooked at the elbow so that he could hold the cigarette to his lips. He had to keep stretching up on his tiptoes to blow the smoke out of the gap in the window - it was too cold to open it all the way. Every time he reached up, his t-shirt rode up almost to his belly button, displaying soft skin and a line of fine dark hair.
“我是说，我真的讨厌这样。”天狼星吐着烟，凝视着窗外。他站在那里，一只手臂交叉在他狭窄的腰部，另一只手弯曲着肘部，以便能把香烟送到嘴边。他不得不不停地踮起脚尖，把烟吹出窗缝——天气太冷了，不能把窗户全打开。每次他伸手，他的T恤几乎都卷到肚脐眼，露出柔软的皮肤和一条细细的黑色毛发线。

Remus lay on the couch, a cold flannel on his forehead, watching Sirius inhale, stretch, puff. Lovely, lovely creature. How had Remus ever got so lucky?
Remus 躺在沙发上，额头上敷着冷毛巾，看着天狼星吸烟、伸展、吐烟。可爱的，可爱的生物。Remus 怎么会这么幸运呢？

“It’s bloody mental, sending you on your own. Why can’t I go with you? I could go as Padfoot.”
“送你一个人去，真是疯了。为什么我不能和你一起去？我可以变成大脚板。”

“No.” Remus sighed, “You still smell human. They’d tear you apart.”
“不行。”Remus 叹了口气，“你还是有人的气味。他们会把你撕成碎片。”

“What if they tear you apart?” Sirius turned sharply. He looked distraught, his cheeks were pink, which was incredible for he-of-the-porcelain-complexion.
“如果他们把你撕碎了呢？”天狼星猛地转过身。他看起来很沮丧，脸颊泛红，这对瓷白肤色的他来说是不可思议的。

“Me?” Remus snorted, trying to sound careless, “Greyback’s prodigal son? Not likely.”
“我？”Remus 哼了一声，试图显得无所谓，“Greyback 的浪子？不太可能。”

“What’s a prodigal son?”
“浪子是什么？”

“Oh right, er… just means I’m going to get a warm welcome. Gaius said not to hurt me. Livia called me her brother.”
“哦，对，呃……只是意味着我会受到热烈的欢迎。盖乌斯说不要伤害我。利维亚叫我兄弟。”

“Could I come with you for a bit? Just before anyone else shows up?”
“我可以和你一起去一会儿吗？就在其他人到来之前？”

“It’s not safe, Padfoot.” Remus said, gently.
“这不安全，大脚板。”Remus 温柔地说。

Sirius stubbed out his cigarette angrily on the windowsill. Remus wished he’d stop doing that - they would need to repaint it soon - but now was not the time to scold him. “Why don’t you go to the Potters’?” He suggested, “Don’t spend the night here by yourself.”
天狼星愤怒地把香烟按灭在窗台上。Remus 希望他不要再这样做——他们很快就需要重新粉刷窗台了——但现在不是责备他的时机。“为什么不去 Potters 家？”他建议道，“别一个人在这里过夜。”

“I don’t care where I spend the night.” Sirius flung himself into the armchair.
“我不在乎在哪里过夜。”天狼星把自己扔进扶手椅。

“Well I do,” Remus tutted, “I need to know where to go after the moon’s down.”
“但我在乎，”Remus 嘘了一声，“我需要知道月亮下山后去哪找你。”

“Shit, yeah,” Sirius sat up, sweeping his hair back, “Ok, I’ll go to the Potters - then if you need any patching up Euphemia will be on hand. Fuck, what if you can’t apparate? What if you--”
“该死，是的，”天狼星坐起来，拢了拢头发，“好吧，我会去 Potters 家——如果你需要任何修补，尤菲米娅会在那儿。见鬼，如果你不能幻影移形呢？如果你——”

“I’ll send a patronus.”
“我会派一个守护神。”

“But if you’re not strong enough…”
“但如果你不够强壮……”

“I will be.” Remus replied simply. He was going to an enchanted forest, based on the co-ordinates Moody had sent. If there was even half the magic there that there was in the Forbidden Forest, then Remus foresaw no problem getting himself out. Unless someone with equal strength tried to stop him, but he was trying not to think about that.
“我会的。”Remus 简单地回答道。他正前往一个魔法森林，基于 Moody 发来的坐标。如果那里的魔法有禁林的一半，那么 Remus 预计不会有问题，除非有同等力量的人试图阻止他，但他尽量不去想这个。

A faint chiming sound echoed through the walls. They hadn’t met their neighbours properly - only waved shy ‘hellos’ in the hall - but they knew they had a grandfather clock, because it went off every hour and was so loud they could hear it in their living room. It was four o’clock, and the depths of winter, which meant sundown was imminent.
微弱的钟声在墙壁间回响。他们还没正式见过邻居——只是在大厅里腼腆地挥手打招呼——但他们知道邻居家有一座座钟，因为每小时都会响一次，声音大得他们在客厅里都能听到。现在是四点钟，正值寒冬，这意味着日落即将来临。

Remus sat up slowly, tossing aside the flannel. His back ached, early pangs telling him the moon was on its way.
Remus 慢慢坐起来，把毛巾扔到一边。他的背开始疼痛，早期的痛感告诉他月亮快要升起了。

“I’d better get going,” he said.
“我最好走了，”他说。

Sirius stared at him, stricken. Remus tutted, getting up. He went over and kissed Sirius’s forehead. “Go to the Potters’. I’ll be fine. Honestly, you go on missions all the time.”
天狼星看着他，满脸痛苦。Remus 嘘了一声，站起来。他走过去亲吻天狼星的额头。“去 Potters 家。我会没事的。说真的，你一直在执行任务。”

“Not like this! Defensive stuff, guard duty, carrying messages, not…”
“这不一样！是防御任务，守卫任务，传递信息，不是……”

“Someone has to do it,” Remus shrugged. “I’d rather it was me.”
“总得有人做这个，”Remus 耸了耸肩。“我宁愿是我。”

He thought of Danny again, and flinched, shaking his head to rid himself of the negative memory. It kept coming up, ever since Remus had learnt the truth about why Danny had been turned. God, the McKinnons had every reason to hate Remus.
他又想到了丹尼，不由得颤抖了一下，摇头驱散消极的记忆。自从 Remus 知道丹尼变成那样的真相以来，这个记忆就不断浮现。天哪，麦金农一家有充分的理由恨 Remus。

He put his shoes on, tying the laces carefully, though he knew he’d only have to take them off again soon. He wore muggle clothes - this had been Ferox’s suggestion. The werewolves had no idea where Remus was living, or how he was living. If Remus could convince them he had been shunned by the wizarding world, then all the better.
他穿上鞋子，小心地系好鞋带，尽管他知道很快就得脱掉。他穿着麻瓜的衣服——这是 Ferox 的建议。狼人们不知道 Remus 住在哪里，生活得怎么样。如果 Remus 能让他们相信他被魔法世界排斥，那就更好了。

They hugged at the door, Remus’s skin already burning up, Sirius clinging to him so tightly Remus thought he’d have to take him after all.
他们在门口拥抱，Remus 的皮肤已经开始发热，天狼星紧紧地抱着他，Remus 觉得他还是得带上天狼星。

“I love you.” Sirius said into his shoulder. They hadn’t said it since Hope’s funeral, but Remus had no trouble at all responding instantly,
“我爱你。”天狼星在他的肩膀上说。自从 Hope 的葬礼以来，他们再也没说过这句话，但 Remus 毫不犹豫地立刻回应，

“I love you too. I’ll be fine. I’ll see you so soon, I promise.”
“我也爱你。我会没事的。我很快就会见到你，我保证。”

And then he left, and he apparated, and when Remus opened his eyes he was very much alone.
然后他离开了，幻影移形，当 Remus 睁开眼睛时，他真的很孤独。

* * *

He was somewhere in Derbyshire. At least he thought so. It was rapidly growing dark, and the thick forest canopy made it darker still. The night air was very cold and clean, but Remus was already too warm, and began to strip down at once. He was alone, after all, there was no need to be shy. Except he was not alone; not completely. This was definitely a magical forest, he could taste it on the breeze, hear it in the rustling of the wintry tree branches.  

他应该在德比郡的某个地方。至少他是这么认为的。天色迅速变暗，浓密的森林树冠使它变得更加黑暗。夜晚的空气非常寒冷而清新，但 Remus 已经觉得太热了，立刻开始脱衣服。毕竟他是一个人，不需要害羞。只是他并不完全是一个人。这肯定是一个魔法森林，他能从微风中品尝到它，从冬天树枝的沙沙声中听到它。

 

The moon began to rise and Remus felt his body start to change. He braced himself against an oak, clawing at the bark with his nails, toes curling in the mouldy leaf litter.  

月亮开始升起，Remus 感到他的身体开始发生变化。他倚靠在一棵橡树上，用指甲抓着树皮，脚趾在腐烂的落叶中蜷缩。

 

The trees seemed to empathise. The earth rose up to meet him, damp ground cooling his feverish skin, owls and foxes and bats and all the nocturnal creatures of the woodland crying out as he screamed and his skin burst open and his bones cracked and his teeth sharpened, until he was no longer Remus, and he howled along with them.  

树木似乎在同情他。大地升起迎接他，潮湿的地面冷却了他发热的皮肤，当他尖叫时，猫头鹰、狐狸、蝙蝠和所有林中的夜行动物都在叫喊，他的皮肤裂开，骨头断裂，牙齿变尖，直到他不再是 Remus，他和它们一起嚎叫。

 

The wolf snarled, whipping its tail. It did not know where it was, or why it was alone. Where were the others? Where was the black one? It sniffed the air, sensing something nearby. It threw back its head and howled once more, singing to the moon.  

狼咆哮着，甩动着尾巴。它不知道自己在哪里，为什么独自一人。其他的狼在哪里？黑色的那只在哪里？它嗅了嗅空气，感觉到附近有什么东西。它仰起头再次嚎叫，向月亮歌唱。

 

For the first time in its life, the wolf did not sing alone. A cacophony of beautiful voices joined in, answering, and he ran towards them at full pelt. With every beat of its wolfish heart it panted; home, home home. I am home.  

 

狼第一次在生命中不再独自歌唱。一阵美妙的声音加入进来，回应着它，它全速奔向它们。随着每一次心跳，它喘息着；家，家，家。我到家了。

* * *

Sunday, 14th January 1979

Coughing and spluttering, Remus returned to his senses. He came back piece by piece, confused and sore and exhausted. He opened his eyes and squinted at the cold yellow morning sun flashing at him through bare branches. All around him were the sounds of others waking up: some broken sobs, rough gasps, and female laughter. Their scent was so delicious, so safe, and so comforting.
1979年1月14日，星期天。
咳嗽和喷溅，Remus 恢复了意识。他一点一点地回来，感到困惑、酸痛和疲惫。他睁开眼睛，眯着眼睛，看着冷黄色的晨曦透过光秃秃的树枝闪烁。在他周围，是其他人醒来的声音，有些断断续续的啜泣，粗重的喘息，还有女性的笑声。他们的气味是如此美妙，如此安全，如此令人安心。

Remus propped himself up on his elbows, dead leaves sticking to his mushroom-clammy skin. He had a long claw mark along his right thigh, three stripes oozing blood. Around him, six or seven others lay naked on the forest floor, slowly coming awake.
Remus 用肘部支撑着自己，枯叶粘在他蘑菇般潮湿的皮肤上。他的右大腿上有一道长长的爪痕，三条血迹渗出。在他周围，六七个其他人赤裸裸地躺在森林地面上，慢慢地醒来。

“Brother!” A familiar cackle sounded out.
“兄弟！”一个熟悉的咯咯笑声响起。

Remus twisted around to see Livia crawling towards him on all fours, her hips swaying, a deranged grin on her face. In the daylight, her tattoos looked like animal markings; they covered every inch of her scrawny body in great sweeping spirals. “I knew you would come!”
Remus 扭过身来看见 Livia 四肢着地爬向他，她的臀部摇摆着，脸上带着疯狂的笑容。在日光下，她的纹身看起来像动物的标记；它们覆盖了她瘦削身体的每一寸皮肤，形成巨大的螺旋图案。“我就知道你会来！”

She knelt at his feet, and he tried to draw his knees up away from her, but she shot out a hand and grabbed his ankle. “You were beautiful, Remus Lupin, beautiful,” she purred, leaning forward, her hand moving up his leg,
她跪在他的脚边，他试图将膝盖从她那里缩回，但她伸出一只手抓住了他的脚踝。“你真美，Remus Lupin，美极了，”她低声说道，向前倾身，手在他腿上移动，

“Get off me, Livia,” he growled, trying to kick at her - but she held him fast.
“离我远点，Livia，”他低吼道，试图踢开她——但她紧紧抓住了他。

“Shhh,” She said playfully, leaning over even further, her hand moving ever closer, “Just relax my love, my darling brother…”
“嘘，”她顽皮地说，身体倾得更近了，手越来越靠近，“放松，我的爱人，我亲爱的兄弟……”

She stretched out her hand and ran three splayed fingers down the cuts on his leg. It felt weird. His whole body seemed to tingle and quiver; he felt warm and - worryingly - on the verge of arousal. He did pull away then, scuttling backwards on all fours like a crab. Livia laughed at him, holding up her three bloody fingertips, then sucking them into her mouth one by one, grinning and murmuring with pleasure.
她伸出手，用三根张开的手指抚过他腿上的伤口。感觉很奇怪。他的整个身体似乎在刺痛和颤抖；他感到温暖——令人担忧的是——几乎要兴奋起来。然后他确实缩回了身体，像螃蟹一样四肢着地向后爬。Livia 嘲笑他，举起她那三根沾满鲜血的指尖，然后一根根地吸入口中，咧嘴笑着，愉悦地低声说道。

Disturbed, he stood up quickly, finding that whatever Livia had done, it had healed the wound. He was left only with a silvery scar.
他不安地迅速站起来，发现不管 Livia 做了什么，它已经治愈了伤口。他只留下了一道银色的疤痕。

The others were up too, and closing in on him, walking towards Remus through the trees, eyes burning with curiosity, sniffing at the air. Some of them were cut or scratched, but they each healed each other, just by touching and channeling the natural magic which surrounded them. Many of them had shaved heads and the beginnings of the same tattoos Livia had. Others were perhaps more recent initiants, and had longer hair, clear skin.
其他人也醒了，向他靠近，穿过树木走向 Remus，眼睛里燃烧着好奇，嗅着空气。他们中的一些人有割伤或擦伤，但他们通过接触和引导周围的自然魔法来治愈彼此。他们中许多人剃光了头，身上有着 Livia 同样的纹身。其他人可能是最近加入的，头发较长，皮肤光滑。

Remus wanted to summon his clothes, and ideally his wand too, but it seemed a bit rude when everyone else was starkers too. Besides, he wasn’t cold, at least not yet. He wasn’t frightened, either, which seemed strange. He looked around at the other faces. Still, that voice deep within him said: pack, pack, home.
Remus 想召唤他的衣服，理想情况下还要召唤他的魔杖，但当其他人都赤裸裸时，这似乎有点粗鲁。除此之外，他并不觉得冷，至少现在还没有。他也不害怕，这似乎很奇怪。他环顾其他人的脸。尽管如此，内心深处的声音仍然在说：族群，族群，家。

“Gaius,” Livia said suddenly, standing up. Gaius was at her side in an instant. He smiled at Remus, licking his lips,
“Gaius，”Livia 突然说道，站了起来。Gaius 立刻站在她身边。他对 Remus 微笑，舔着嘴唇，

“Welcome, brother.”
“欢迎，兄弟。”

“Welcome, brother!” The others echoed, one after the other, like a peel of bells. Remus felt a surge of adrenaline, of strong, undeniable connection.
“欢迎，兄弟！”其他人一个接一个地回应，像一阵钟声。Remus 感到一阵肾上腺素的激增，一种强烈的，不可否认的联系。

“We’re so glad you could join us,” Gaius said. Livia turned to him, and began to lick his wounds, as if it was the most natural thing in the world.
“我们很高兴你能加入我们，”Gaius 说道。Livia 转向他，开始舔他的伤口，仿佛这是世界上最自然的事情。

Castor was there too, but he hung back. Since Remus had last met him, Castor had received a wound which slashed his face, a long split across the nose. It was healed over, but it ruined his once beautiful face.
Castor 也在那儿，但他退后了。自从 Remus 上次见到他以来，Castor 脸上多了一道伤口，鼻子上有一道长长的裂痕。它已经愈合了，但毁了他曾经美丽的面容。

Remus remembered himself and found his voice,
Remus 想起了自己，找回了声音，

“I’ve had enough,” he said, raising his chin. “I’ve had enough of the humans, I want to see what else there is.”
“我受够了，”他说，抬起下巴。“我受够了人类，我想看看还有什么。”

Gaius’s grin widened, and Livia looked up too, blood on her lips and teeth.
Gaius 的笑容更大了，Livia 也抬起头，嘴唇和牙齿上沾满了血。

“Our father will be so pleased,” they said in unison,
“我们的父亲会很高兴的，”他们异口同声地说，

“So pleased!” repeated the group.
“非常高兴！”其他人重复道。

 

“I want to meet him,” Remus said, “Will you tell him that?”
“我想见他，”Remus 说道，“你能告诉他吗？”

“In time, Remus Lupin.” Livia and Gaius said.

“In time…”

**Sunday, 14th January 1979**

 

Something was happening, though, the pack was retreating. They walked away, back into the trees, the brush, fading into the landscape like the predators they were. Remus felt a tug in his chest. He wanted to follow them; he didn’t want to lose their company yet.  

尽管如此，事情还是发生了，族群正在撤退。他们走开了，回到树林中，灌木丛中，像捕食者一样消失在风景中。Remus 感到胸口一阵拉扯。他想跟上他们；他还不想失去他们的陪伴。

 

“Where are you going?” he asked Livia, as she too began to back away.  

“你们要去哪里？”他问 Livia，她也开始后退。

 

“We will see you next month, Remus Lupin,” she said, her face softening somewhat - she looked almost kind, if you ignored the blood drying in the corners of her mouth. “It is not long to wait.”  

“下个月见，Remus Lupin，”她说，脸色稍微柔和了一些——如果你忽略她嘴角干涸的血，她看起来几乎是善良的。“等不了多久。”

 

“But I…”  

“但是我…”

 

They both turned, and did not look back.  

他们都转身了，没有回头。

 

Now Remus started feeling cold. The chill seemed to begin inside him and work its way out. He felt a horrible empty loneliness that hadn’t been there before. Their scent was gone, their familiarity, the safety they represented. *Jesus Christ, Moony,* he hissed at himself, *Sort yourself out, you’re not really one of them!*  

现在 Remus 开始感到寒冷。寒意似乎从他体内开始，并逐渐向外扩散。他感到一种可怕的空虚寂寞，这种感觉以前从未有过。他们的气味消失了，他们的熟悉感和他们所代表的安全感也消失了。*天啊，Moony,* 他对自己嘶嘶地说，*振作起来，你不是他们中的一员！*

 

He summoned his clothes quickly, and held his wand tight. It felt weird; somehow vestigial. Much easier to simply summon the strength in his own body, at his very fingertips, no need for a silly stick. He frowned. He did not feel himself. Best to apparate back to the Potters’ quickly, before he turned completely feral.  

他迅速召唤了他的衣服，并紧紧握住了他的魔杖。感觉很奇怪；有点像残余物。更容易简单地召唤他自己体内的力量，在他的指尖上，不需要一根愚蠢的木棍。他皱起眉头。他感觉不像自己。最好快速幻影移形回到 Potter 家，赶在完全野化之前。

 

He apparated to the back door, and knocked weakly on the glass of the French windows. He felt much more tired by then; perhaps the effort of apparition, or just being away from the forest and back in mundanity. Mrs. Potter was already in the kitchen and came over at once, opening the doors.  

他幻影移形到了后门，虚弱地敲了敲法式窗户的玻璃。那时他感觉更加疲惫；也许是幻影移形的努力，或者只是离开森林回到平凡世界的原因。Potter 夫人已经在厨房里了，她立刻过来，打开了门。

 

She beamed at him with creased and wrinkled eyes,  

她用布满皱纹的眼睛对他微笑，

 

“Remus, dear,” she said, her voice very quiet - the others must still be sleeping. “I’d better ask you something… let me see… oh, I’m no good at this… ah; where did you and the boys go on holiday before your seventh year?”  

“Remus，亲爱的，”她说，声音很轻——其他人一定还在睡觉。“我最好问你一些事情……让我看看……哦，我不擅长这个……啊；你和男孩们在七年级前去哪里度假了？”

 

“Cornwall,” Remus replied promptly, grateful to be reminded of that wonderful summer, “Near Truro.”  

“康沃尔，”Remus 迅速回答，感激地想起那个美好的夏天，“在 Truro 附近。”

 

“Lovely,” she opened the door. “Now, are you all right? Anything hurt?”  

“很好，”她打开了门。“现在，你还好吗？有受伤吗？”

 

“No, I’m fine,” he said, stepping into the kitchen, extending his arms as if to prove his good health to her. Oh god, now he was in the house he could smell Sirius, and everything in him wanted to seek him out at once.  

“没有，我很好，”他说，走进厨房，伸展双臂，仿佛在向她证明自己的健康。哦天啊，现在他在屋子里，他能闻到 Sirius 的气味，他内心的一切都想立即找到他。

 

“Lovely,” Mrs. Potter smiled, tiredly. “Well then, I think I’ll go back to bed, it’s hours until breakfast. The boys are sleeping, Sirius is in his room, but if you wanted a bit of peace and quiet I’ve made up the spare bed too.”  

“很好，”Potter 夫人疲倦地微笑。“那么，我想我要回去睡觉了，还有几个小时才到早餐时间。男孩们在睡觉，Sirius 在他的房间里，但如果你想要点安静，我已经整理好了备用床。”

 

“Thanks, Mrs. Potter!” Remus said, practically running up the stairs to the bedroom Sirius was in. He remembered himself just before slamming the door open, and instead pushed it gently, peering inside.  

“谢谢，Potter 夫人！”Remus 说，几乎是跑上楼梯到 Sirius 所在的卧室。他在猛地推开门之前想起了自己，而是轻轻推开门，探头看进去。

 

It was quite dark, the heavy curtains drawn over the early sunrise. “Are you awake?” he whispered - redundantly, because he knew that he was.  

房间里很黑，厚重的窗帘遮住了初升的太阳。“你醒了吗？”他低声说——多余的，因为他知道 Sirius 醒着。

 

“Moony!” Sirius sat up immediately.  

“Moony！”Sirius 立刻坐了起来。

 

Remus hurried over to the bed, hanging back at the last moment, because no, he wasn’t a wolf now; he was human and he had to act it.  

Remus 急忙走到床边，最后一刻退后，因为不，他现在不是狼；他是人类，必须表现得像个人类。

 

“Are you ok?!”  

“你还好吗？！”

 

“Yes,” he nodded emphatically, “It was fine, it was nothing. We just hunted.”  

“是的，”他用力地点点头，“没事，没什么。我们只是狩猎。”

 

“Hunted?!” Sirius’s eyes widened.  

“狩猎？！”Sirius 的眼睛睁大了。

 

“Rabbits.” Remus clarified. He could still taste the gamey flesh between his teeth. His stomach flipped and he grew warm once more, “Honestly, it was fine. Easy.”  

“兔子。”Remus 解释道。他仍能在牙缝间尝到野味的肉。他的胃翻腾了一下，再次感到温暖，“真的，没事。很容易。”

 

“I was so worried about you, I didn’t even sleep… don’t you want to get in?” He pulled back the covers.  

“我好担心你，我都没睡觉……你不想进来吗？”他掀开被子。

 

“Er…” Remus shifted, still standing, “I’m a bit… on edge.”  

“呃……”Remus 挪动了一下，仍然站着，“我有点……紧张。”

 

Sirius frowned, confused. Remus cleared his throat,  

Sirius 皱起眉头，困惑不解。Remus 清了清嗓子，

 

“You know. Like the other day?”  

“你知道的。就像前几天一样？”

 

“Oh!” Sirius reached out and touched Remus’s arm lightly. He bit his lip, shivering delightfully, getting a taste of the same feeling. “So you are. Um…”  

“哦！”Sirius 伸出手轻轻触摸 Remus 的手臂。他咬住嘴唇，愉快地颤抖，尝到了同样的感觉。“你是这样。嗯……”

 

He reached out and put his hands on Remus’s hips, curling his fingers in under the waistband of his jeans, Sirius tugged him towards him, “That's ok, I can sleep later…”  

他伸出手，把手放在 Remus 的臀部，手指卷进牛仔裤的腰带下，Sirius 把他拉向自己，“没关系，我可以以后再睡……”

 

They did sleep later, both of them, and thankfully James and Lily and the Potters left them und

 

isturbed. When they woke up at five o’clock in the evening, Remus felt like the worst guest in the world, though of course Sirius was perfectly at home.  

他们后来都睡着了，谢天谢地，James 和 Lily 以及 Potter 家的人都没有打扰他们。傍晚五点钟醒来时，Remus 感觉自己是世界上最糟糕的客人，尽管当然 Sirius 是完全自在的。

 

Remus tried to explain the night’s events to Sirius, but there were things he couldn’t help glossing over. Livia healing him in that intimate way. The desire he’d had to stay, to follow them. It wasn’t lying. He was being as honest as he thought was safe.  

Remus 尝试向 Sirius 解释昨晚的事件，但有些事情他还是不由得略过了。Livia 以那种亲密的方式治愈了他。他想留下来的愿望，跟随他们。这不是撒谎。他尽可能地诚实。

 

Later, he told Moody and Ferox an even more censored version. They didn’t ask for much detail, to be fair, and Remus didn’t see why he should give them everything. He was keen to keep the other werewolves’ identities private for as long as he realistically could, and for now they were only interested in Greyback.  

后来，他向 Moody 和 Ferox 讲述了一个更加审查过的版本。公平地说，他们没有要求太多细节，而 Remus 也不明白为什么要把一切都告诉他们。他热衷于尽可能长时间地保密其他狼人的身份，目前他们只对 Greyback 感兴趣。

 

As for Remus, he was the closest he had ever been to the thing he had wanted ever since he was a child. He was going to meet the man who destroyed his life. And he was going to kill him.  

 

至于 Remus，他离他从小就想要的东西比以往任何时候都近了。他将要见到那个毁了他生活的人。而且他将要杀了他。

* * *

Sunday 11th February 1979

 

Second Moon

In the intervening month, Remus tried to retain a semblance of normality. He attended meetings and met his friends - often he would go and see the girls on their lunch break; Lily and Marlene at St Mungo’s, Mary only a short bus trip away in Kensington. He phoned Grant if Sirius was away and he got lonely, and he listened to records and he read books.
在这个月里，Remus 尝试保持一种正常的表象。他参加会议，见朋友——经常在午休时去看望女孩们；Lily 和 Marlene 在圣芒戈，Mary 只需短途巴士到 Kensington。他会在 Sirius 不在时打电话给 Grant，因为他会感到孤独，然后他听唱片，读书。

But he couldn’t ignore how different he felt. Sometimes it caught him off guard; a memory would come to him, or a scent, and his toes curled and he licked his teeth. His dreams became almost exclusively about forests and howling and cool soft moonlight.
但他无法忽视自己的不同感受。有时它会出乎意料地袭来；一个记忆闪现，或者一种气味，他的脚趾蜷缩，他舔了舔牙齿。他的梦几乎全都是关于森林、嚎叫和柔和的月光。

He was better prepared, the second time. Just as nervous, though. He apparated to the same spot as before, in case they came to meet him - but they didn’t and he transformed alone.
第二次他准备得更充分了。但还是一样紧张。他幻影移形到了之前的地方，以防他们来接他——但他们没有，他独自变形了。

The wolf found its pack even faster this time. They keened and yapped in greeting, the alpha bitch nipped his ear and rubbed herself against him, the younger wolves ducked their heads in submission. Then the hunt began. The wolf could not remember ever having felt such uncomplicated joy before, even with its other pack. The rage and the fear and the hunger slipped away with the wind in its fur, the scent of the herd they stalked.
这次狼更快找到了它的族群。他们发出尖叫声和吠叫声迎接，母狼咬了他的耳朵，用身体蹭了蹭他，年轻的狼低下头表示顺从。然后狩猎开始了。狼从未记得曾经感受过如此简单的快乐，即使是在其他族群中。愤怒、恐惧和饥饿随着毛皮中的风和他们跟踪的兽群的气味消失了。

When they finally caught up to the deer, Remus, Gaius, Livia, and Castor were the first in; they took down the stag. The others followed suit, closing in on the struggling beast. The wolf leapt and dug in its claws, relishing the panicked heartbeat of its prey. It sank in its teeth and tore away flesh, and hot rich blood slid down its throat.
当他们终于追上鹿时，Remus、Gaius、Livia 和 Castor 首先冲了上去；他们放倒了雄鹿。其他人紧随其后，逼近那挣扎的野兽。狼跳起来，爪子深深挖进肉里，享受着猎物惊恐的心跳。它咬紧牙关，撕开肉，滚烫的血液顺着喉咙滑下。

When Remus woke up, he was not hungry.
当 Remus 醒来时，他不饿了。

He allowed Livia to lick his wounds clean this time, too dopey and satisfied to think too hard about any of the implications.
这次他让 Livia 舔干净他的伤口，太昏昏欲睡和满足了，无法深入思考其中的任何含义。

“Will I meet Greyback next month?” he asked, before Castor and Livia could melt back into the shadows.
“下个月我会见到 Greyback 吗？”他问道，在 Castor 和 Livia 融入阴影之前。

“Our father is looking forward to meeting you, Remus Lupin,” Livia said, “You must be a little more patient, my brother.”
“我们的父亲期待见到你，Remus Lupin，”Livia 说，“你必须再耐心一点，兄弟。”

“Have I proved myself?”
“我证明自己了吗？”

“It is not for us to decide.”
“这不是我们能决定的。”

He stayed in the forest longer than usual - perhaps just out of laziness. Even alone, he felt better there than he had anywhere else. He would have liked to curl up and sleep beneath the trees. When Remus finally reappeared outside the Potters’ back door, it was the middle of breakfast.
他在森林里待的时间比平时长——也许只是因为懒惰。即使是独自一人，他在那里感觉比在其他地方都好。他很想蜷缩在树下睡觉。当 Remus 终于在 Potter 家后门外出现时，正值早餐时间。

Lily, James, and Sirius were there, faces anxious and drawn, nursing large cups of milky tea. Mrs. Potter was standing at the window peering out, and jumped when Remus arrived. She swung the door open.
Lily、James 和 Sirius 都在，脸上带着焦虑和疲惫的表情，端着大杯牛奶茶。Potter 夫人站在窗前张望，当 Remus 到达时她跳了起来。她打开了门。

“There you are!”
“你来了！”

“Sorry,” he murmured, a bit wobbly on his feet.
“对不起，”他低声说，脚步有点摇晃。

“Oh my god, Moony, are you ok?!” Lily was at the door now too, and she pointed at him, horrified. He looked down and saw the blood - it had trickled down his chin and neck, pooling in the hollow above his collar bones, and dried there without his even noticing.
“天啊，Moony，你还好吗？！”Lily 也站在门口，惊恐地指着他。他低头一看，看到血——它已经顺着他的下巴和脖子流下，汇集在他的锁骨上方的凹陷处，干在那里，他都没有注意到。

“Shit,” he rubbed at his mouth self-consciously, “It’s not mine, it’s not--”
“该死，”他不自在地擦了擦嘴，“这不是我的，不是——”

James came to the door next, and Remus suddenly felt very queasy, covered in stag’s blood, having feasted on deer only hours before. He stuck out an arm to lean against the wall, giddily.
James 接着来到门口，Remus 突然感到非常恶心，浑身沾满了鹿血，几个小时前还在享受鹿肉。他伸出手臂靠在墙上，头晕目眩。

“Come on, Moony,” Sirius ducked between James and Lily and touched Remus’s hand lightly, “Let’s get you cleaned up…”
“来吧，Moony，”Sirius 在 James 和 Lily 之间闪身，轻轻触碰 Remus 的手，“我们去清理一下你……”

Gratefully, Remus allowed himself to be led upstairs to the bathroom. Sirius ran a warm bath, and then stood leaning against the sink while Remus soaked himself, blinking dazedly at the rust-coloured swirls in the warm water.
Remus 感激地让自己被引导到楼上的浴室。Sirius 放了一盆热水，然后靠在水槽旁边站着，而 Remus 泡在水里，茫然地眨着眼，看着温水中的铁锈色漩涡。

“It’s not human,” he said, shakily.
“不是人类的，”他说，声音颤抖。

“I know,” Sirius said, “It’s deer, I can smell it.”
“我知道，”Sirius 说，“是鹿，我能闻到。”

“You can?” Remus looked up at him. Sirius wrinkled his nose,
“你能？”Remus 抬头看着他。Sirius 皱起鼻子，

“I have to concentrate, but yeah. I was talking to Prongs about it, the longer we’re animagi the more weird things we notice. Hope I don’t go colour blind next, eh?”
“我得集中注意力，但可以。我和 Prongs 讨论过这个，变形时间越长，我们注意到的奇怪事情越多。希望我不会变色盲，哈哈？”

Remus tried to laugh at this attempt to alleviate the tension, but he was too shaken up.
Remus 试图对这个缓解紧张气氛的尝试笑一笑，但他太震惊了。

 

“Was it bad?” Sirius asked, gently, lowering his voice as if Remus was an invalid.
“很糟糕吗？”Sirius 轻轻地问，声音低了下来，仿佛 Remus 是个病人。

No , Remus thought to himself. It was wonderful. I was happy; I was normal. He was disgusted with himself. What’s happening to me?

He looked at Sirius and nodded. “Yeah. It was bad.”

* * *

Tuesday 13th March 1979

 

Third Moon

“I don’t want to go back to the Potters’ this time.” Remus said, before he had to leave for the third moon with the pack.

 

 

“What?” Sirius came out of the kitchen, where he’d been doing the washing up. He was becoming steadily more house proud - or maybe it was just nervous energy; the war was hotting up for everyone, not just Remus.
“什么？”Sirius 从厨房里走出来，他刚才在洗碗。他变得越来越爱干净——或者只是紧张的精力无处发泄；战争对每个人来说都在加剧，不仅仅是 Remus。

He was wearing a pair of bright yellow marigolds, which Remus had bought him as a joke, but he loved so much he wore every time. They were wet and shining, dripping suds on the carpet.
他戴着一双亮黄色的橡胶手套，Remus 买来当玩笑用的，但他非常喜欢，每次都戴着。手套湿漉漉的，闪闪发光，泡沫滴在地毯上。

“I said I don’t want to go back to the Potters’.” Remus repeated, “In the morning. You can stay there, obviously, but I… I just won’t, ok? I don’t know how safe it is, I don’t want anyone to follow me.”
“我说我不想回 Potter 家。”Remus 重复道，“早上。你当然可以留在那里，但我……我就是不去，好吗？我不知道那有多安全，我不想有人跟着我。”

“We’ve been fine so far…”
“我们一直没事……”

Sirius had been doing that a lot; saying ‘we’ when it was really only about Remus.
Sirius 经常这样做；说“我们”时，其实只是关于 Remus 的事。

“I think we’ve been careless.” Remus shrugged. “I won’t put them in danger again.”
“我觉得我们太大意了。”Remus 耸了耸肩。“我不会再让他们陷入危险。”

“Ok.” Sirius nodded. He peeled off the gloves slowly, “Where do you want to go, then?”
“好吧。”Sirius 点点头，慢慢脱下手套，“那你想去哪？”

“I don’t know. I thought maybe Cornwall? That castle ruin we visited, do you remember?”
“我不知道。我想也许去 Cornwall？我们参观过的那个城堡废墟，你还记得吗？”

“Of course I remember. Shall I meet you there?”
“当然记得。我去那里见你吗？”

“Wait for my signal. I want it to be safe.” Remus shifted from foot to foot. He wanted to pace; his back was aching again and he needed to go soon, but he kept still in case it worried Sirius.
“等我的信号。我希望它是安全的。”Remus 走来走去。他想要踱步；他的背又开始疼了，他很快需要离开，但他保持静止，以免让 Sirius 担心。

“Moony, if it’s not safe then I’d rather be there so I can help. I know Prongs and Wormtail and Evans will too--”
“Moony，如果不安全，我宁愿在那里帮忙。我知道 Prongs 和 Wormtail 还有 Evans 也会——”

“No.” Remus raised his voice. “No, please.”
“不。”Remus 提高了声音。“不，拜托。”

“But Moony---”
“可是 Moony——”

“Look, I have to go.” He practically flew out of the door; he didn’t even put his coat on.
“听着，我得走了。”他几乎飞出了门；他甚至没穿外套。

He hadn’t said a proper goodbye. He hadn’t even said ‘I love you’, which they had been doing every time they were separated, just in case. But of course Remus thought he was coming back. He couldn’t have known what the pack had planned.
他没有好好告别。他甚至没有说“我爱你”，他们每次分开时都会说，以防万一。但当然 Remus 以为他会回来。他不知道狼群计划了什么。

This time it was a relief to shed his human form and give up responsibility for a few hours. They ran and played and fought and howled through the night, rustling fairies up from the underbrush, following scents they picked up.
这次，变回狼形态、放弃几小时的责任是一种解脱。他们整夜奔跑、玩耍、打斗、嚎叫，从灌木丛中惊起仙子，跟随他们拾起的气味。

As the moon began to fade, the wolf slowed down, started to whimper as it felt its body shrinking back to pathetic human form. The others stopped too, and drew in close.
随着月亮开始消退，狼慢了下来，开始呜咽，因为它感觉自己的身体正在缩回那可怜的人类形态。其他狼也停了下来，靠近过来。

Livia was the first to pounce, and Remus, half wolf, half man by this point, tried to struggle but she held him fast, her paws becoming claw-like hands. Castor and Gaius had him too, pinning him down as Remus groaned and clenched his teeth through the pains of transformation.
Livia 是第一个扑上来的，这时 Remus 半狼半人，试图挣扎但她紧紧抓住他，她的爪子变成了像手一样的爪子。Castor 和 Gaius 也抓住了他，把他按住，Remus 在变形的痛苦中呻吟，咬紧牙关。

And then he was human once more, pressed into the ground by the pack, braced against their tangle of strong, hot limbs. He raised his head, yelling,
然后他再次变成人，被狼群按在地上，顶着他们纠缠在一起的强壮炽热的四肢。他抬起头，大喊，

“What are you doing?! Let me go!”
“你们在做什么？！放开我！”

Livia laughed, astride him, throwing her head back, and then it happened. That weird sucking, squeezing sensation as all four of them apparated, Remus helpless to do anything but cling on and pray he didn’t get splinched.
Livia 笑了，跨坐在他身上，仰起头，然后事情发生了。那种奇怪的吸吮、挤压感，四个人一起幻影移形，Remus 无助，只能紧紧抓住祈祷自己不要被撕裂。

Suddenly the ground beneath him was hard, cold stone, rocks digging into his bare back. The others finally got off him, and he scrambled to his feet, staring around wildly. They were indoors, in a high-ceilinged chamber, like a - was it a church?! It was cold, and it reeked of the pack, and ancient magic. The others stood around him, smiling madly.
突然，脚下的地面变得坚硬、冰冷，岩石戳进他裸露的背部。其他人终于离开他，他手忙脚乱地站起来，疯狂地环顾四周。他们在室内，一个高天花板的房间里，像是——这是一座教堂吗？！这里很冷，弥漫着狼群的气味和古老的魔法。其他人站在他周围，疯狂地笑着。

“Where the fuck am--” Remus started, but stopped short as Livia stepped to one side and a tall, dark figure approached. Remus knew that scent, he knew those burning yellow eyes. He froze, paralysed by terror. Greyback stepped towards him, teeth bared in a cruel smile.
“我到底在哪——”Remus 开始说，但 Livia 走到一边，一个高大的黑影走近，他的话戛然而止。Remus 认得那气味，他认得那炽热的黄色眼睛。他僵住了，被恐惧麻痹了。Greyback 朝他走来，露出残忍的笑容。

“Welcome home, cub.”
“欢迎回家，小崽子。”

Chapter 158: The War: CaptiveAs they pulled you out of the oxygen tent

You asked for the latest party.

With your silicone hump and your ten-inch stump

Dressed like a priest you was; Todd Browning freak you was.

Crawling down the alley on your hands and knees

I’m sure you’re not protected for it’s plain to see,

The diamond dogs are poachers and they hide behind trees.

Hunt you to the ground, they will,

Mannequins with kill appeal.

 

Wednesday 14th March 1979

“Welcome home, cub.”

Remus said nothing. For now, he had nothing to say. He just wanted to get a good look.

Fenrir Greyback. Remus had expected him to be taller. He wasn’t short by any standards, but when Remus stood up straight they were eye level. That was good. That gave him a flutter of courage.  

Fenrir Greyback。Remus 本以为他会更高。按任何标准他都不算矮，但当 Remus 站直时，他们的眼睛平齐。这很好，这给了他一丝勇气。

 

He may not be taller than Remus, but Greyback was certainly bigger in every other way; hulking broad shoulders, thick squat neck, muscular arms. He had long, thick yellow fingernails, dark wiry hair covering his forearms and sprouting up over the collar of his cloak, meeting a dark beard that was more like fur than hair. His eyes were dangerous, inhuman.  

他可能没有 Remus 高，但 Greyback 在其他方面确实更大；巨大的宽肩，粗短的脖子，肌肉发达的手臂。他有长而厚的黄色指甲，黑色的硬毛覆盖着前臂，从斗篷的领口冒出来，与那更像毛发的黑色胡须相连。他的眼睛充满危险，非人类的。

 

The magic radiating off him was not like a wizard’s; at least not any Remus had encountered. Like a full moon, it was searing. The scent, while sickeningly familiar, was not inviting.  

他身上散发的魔力不像巫师的；至少不像 Remus 遇到过的任何巫师。就像满月一样，它是灼热的。那气味，虽然令人作呕但又熟悉，却没有吸引力。

 

Remus had felt at home with the pack; he had felt he belonged. But not with this man. He was the enemy, and always would be.  

Remus 和狼群在一起时感到宾至如归；他觉得自己属于那里。但不是和这个男人在一起。他是敌人，并且永远是。

 

“Like what you see?” Greyback’s smile widened, showing sharp, predatory teeth, long yellow canines.  

“喜欢你看到的吗？”Greyback 的笑容扩大，露出锋利的掠食者牙齿，长长的黄色犬齿。

 

Remus stared impassively back, mouth shut.  

Remus 面无表情地盯着他，闭着嘴。

 

He realised that Greyback did not like it. Greyback had expected him to speak - to beg, or to rage, or even panic. And Remus knew exactly what to do with bullies who wanted a reaction.  

他意识到 Greyback 不喜欢这样。Greyback 期望他讲话——乞求、愤怒，甚至恐慌。而 Remus 知道该如何对付那些想要反应的恶霸。

 

He cocked his head, pulled a nonchalant face and shrugged.  

他歪了歪头，做出无所谓的表情，耸了耸肩。

 

“S’ok, I s’pose. Oi, could I get my clothes back?”  

“还行，我想。喂，我能把衣服拿回来吗？”

 

Greyback’s pupils seemed to dilate, or maybe Remus just imagined it. Either way, he recovered quickly, still smiling stiffly.  

Greyback 的瞳孔似乎放大了，或者 Remus 只是想象的。不管怎样，他很快恢复过来，依旧僵硬地微笑着。

 

“Where are my manners? Castor!” He snapped his claw-like fingers.  

“我的礼貌在哪里？Castor！”他打了个像爪子一样的响指。

 

Castor appeared at Greyback’s side in a moment, straight-backed and wrapped in a fur cloak, carrying a bundle of clothes. Livia was there too, gazing adoringly at her father. The old church they stood in had no ceiling, and in the rosey dawn light Remus could clearly see Castor’s face for the first time. There were three long pink scars down one side; claw marks, pink and soft as burnt skin.  

Castor 立刻出现在 Greyback 身边，背脊笔直，身披毛皮斗篷，手里拿着一捆衣服。Livia 也在那儿，深情地注视着她的父亲。他们站在的这座老教堂没有天花板，在玫瑰色的黎明光线中，Remus 第一次清楚地看到了 Castor 的脸。一侧有三道长长的粉红色疤痕；爪痕，像烧伤的皮肤一样粉红柔软。

 

Greyback saw him staring.  

Greyback 看见他在盯着。

 

“Shame about that,” He said said, reaching out and stroking Castor’s cheek with one filthy fingernail. Castor did not flinch. “Hated to ruin something so pleasant to look at, but he’s learnt his lesson, haven’t you, cub?”  

“真遗憾，”他说，伸出一只脏兮兮的指甲抚摸着 Castor 的脸颊。Castor 没有退缩。“讨厌毁掉这么好看的东西，但他学到了教训，是不是，小崽子？”

 

Castor nodded, staring straight ahead like a soldier.  

Castor 点了点头，像士兵一样直视前方。

 

“Good boy.” Greyback stroked his scarred cheek. “Still beautiful though, eh Remus?”  

“好孩子。”Greyback 抚摸着他那有疤痕的脸颊。“不过还是很美，对吧 Remus？”

 

Remus said nothing, and looked away, disgusted.  

Remus 没有说话，厌恶地转过头去。

 

“And I thought you were a connoisseur of beauty.” Greyback tutted with mock-disappointment. “That’s why I sent you my loveliest children.”  

“我还以为你是美的鉴赏家。”Greyback 假装失望地咂舌。“这就是为什么我把我最可爱的孩子送给你。”

 

Livia gave a shiver of pleasure at that, tossing her head proudly.  

听到这话，Livia 激动地颤抖了一下，骄傲地甩了甩头。

 

Castor held out Remus’s clothes, and he took them, dressing carefully. He felt in his jeans pocket for his wand, but it wasn’t there.  

Castor 递出 Remus 的衣服，他接过来，小心地穿上。他摸了摸牛仔裤口袋里的魔杖，但它不在那儿。

 

“Ah,” Greyback growled, “Looking for this?”  

“啊，”Greyback 低吼道，“在找这个吗？”

 

He withdrew the long thin stick from his own mud-spattered robes. Remus felt a horrible twist of longing for it. “I’m afraid we don’t allow these foolish human toys.” Greyback smirked. He took Remus’s wand in both hands and snapped it clean it two.  

他从自己满是泥点的长袍里抽出那根细长的棒子。Remus 感到一阵可怕的渴望。“恐怕我们不允许这些愚蠢的人类玩具。”Greyback 嘲笑道。他用双手拿起 Remus 的魔杖，干净利落地折成两半。

 

Remus had to struggle not to cry out. That had been Lyall’s wand. In fact, it had been the only thing Lyall had ever given Remus that wasn’t completely worthless. He bit the inside of his cheek, hard.  

Remus 必须努力不喊出来。那是 Lyall 的魔杖。事实上，那是 Lyall 唯一给 Remus 的不完全无用的东西。他狠狠地咬了咬自己的脸颊内侧。

 

Greyback handed the wand fragments to Livia, who twiddled them gleefully between her fingers like batons. Remus raised his chin, defiantly,  

Greyback 把魔杖碎片递给 Livia，后者像挥舞指挥棒一样愉快地在指间转动它们。Remus 挑衅地抬起下巴，

 

“What do you want from me?”  

“你想从我这里得到什么？”

 

“I want what I have always wanted, cub,” Greyback stepped closer, so that Remus could smell his sour breath, their noses only inches apart, “I want to take care of you.”  

“我想要我一直想要的，小崽子，”Greyback 走得更近了，Remus 能闻到他那酸臭的呼吸，他们的鼻子只有几英寸的距离，“我想照顾你。”

 

He reached out to place a hand on Remus’s shoulder, and it took every ounce of Remus’s will not to flinch, or duck away. Greyback’s long fingers squeezed him in a fatherly manner - but a bit too close to his throat for comfort.  

他伸手放在 Remus 的肩上，Remus 必须尽全力才能不退缩或躲开。Greyback 的长手指像父亲一样握住他——但离他的喉咙太

 

近了，不太舒服。

 

“I’ve come to join you,” Remus breathed, struggling to hold his nerve.  

“我来加入你们了，”Remus 喘着气，努力保持镇定。

 

Greyback tilted back his head and laughed. It was a gruff, wheezing laugh from deep inside his chest.  

Greyback 仰头大笑。这是一种从胸腔深处发出的粗哑喘息的笑声。

 

“That’s what my children tell me. Remus Lupin has joined us, they say, he has cast off the human world… But I wonder...” He licked his lips, looking Remus up and down lasciviously, “I wonder if Remus Lupin has truly changed his ways…”  

“这是我的孩子们告诉我的。他们说，Remus Lupin 加入了我们，他抛弃了人类世界……但我怀疑……”他舔了舔嘴唇，色迷迷地上下打量着 Remus，“我怀疑 Remus Lupin 是否真的改了他的路……”

 

“I’m here, aren’t I?” Remus protested, “I’ve spent three moons with--”  

“我在这里，不是吗？”Remus 抗议道，“我已经和——”

 

“And where were you between the moons?” Greyback challenged. He sniffed the air between them. “You reek of humankind.”  

“那三个月之间你在哪里？”Greyback 质问道。他嗅了嗅他们之间的空气。“你闻起来像人类。”

 

With that, he released Remus’s shoulder, pushing him backwards, hard. Remus hit the stone floor with a thump, and a gasp of surprise and pain as his back jarred. Greyback walked away, his pack dividing to let him through.  

说完，他放开 Remus 的肩膀，用力把他推向后面。Remus 重重地摔在石地板上，发出一声惊讶和痛苦的喘息。他的背部震动了一下。Greyback 走开了，他的狼群分开让他通过。

 

“Castor, Livia,” he snarled, “Look after our guest. See if we can’t wring some of that humanity out of him.”  

“Castor, Livia，”他咆哮道，“照顾好我们的客人。看看我们能不能从他身上榨出一些人性。”

 

Remus climbed to his feet stiffly, and went to chase after Greyback, but Livia and Gaius blocked him with their bodies. Over their shoulders, he watched Greyback leave the church through an open archway, and disappear into the bright green foliage beyond.  

Remus 僵硬地爬起来，想追上 Greyback，但 Livia 和 Gaius 用身体挡住了他。他透过他们的肩膀，看着 Greyback 通过一个敞开的拱门离开教堂，消失在明亮的绿色树叶中。

 

Alone and wandless, Remus backed away from the others warily. He wondered if he could apparate, but he didn’t dare - and after all, surely this was the mission? He had achieved what he’d set out to; he was in Greyback’s pack. Pushing any thought of home or his friends aside, Remus faced his captors. Now was the time to be brave.  

孤身一人且没有魔杖，Remus 谨慎地向其他人退后。他想知道自己是否能幻影移形，但他不敢——毕竟，这肯定是任务吧？他已经达到了目的；他在 Greyback 的狼群里。把任何关于家或朋友的想法抛到一边，Remus 面对他的捕获者。现在是勇敢的时候了。

 

Livia approached him first, tossing his splintered wand parts away and grabbing his arms, twisting them hard behind his back. Castor came next, same stoic expression on his face. He was unwinding a length of rope, holding it out.  

Livia 第一个走近他，扔掉他那破碎的魔杖碎片，抓住他的手臂，把它们用力扭到背后。Castor 紧随其后，脸上同样是坚定的表情。他正在解开一段绳子，伸出来。

 

“Oi!” Remus struggled against Livia, “Piss off, you’re not tying me up!”  

“喂！”Remus 抗争着对抗 Livia，“滚开，你们不能绑住我！”

 

“It is not for long, brother,” Livia hissed in his ear. “It is necessary.” Then she licked him - she ran her long tongue up from the nape of his neck almost to his hairline. He shuddered in disgust, struggling harder, but she only laughed - she was so strong.  

“不会太久的，兄弟，”Livia 在他耳边嘶嘶地说。“这是必要的。”然后她舔了他——她从他的脖颈后部一直舔到发际线。他恶心地颤抖着，更加用力地挣扎，但她只是笑了——她太强壮了。

 

They bound him tightly, then forced him forwards, Castor leading, tugging on the rope around Remus’s arms and body; Livia pushing from behind.  

他们把他紧紧绑住，然后强迫他向前走，Castor 在前面拉着绑在 Remus 手臂和身体上的绳子；Livia 从后面推着。

 

He stumbled awkwardly through the church, still unsteady on his feet, having only just transformed.  

他笨拙地在教堂里踉跄前行，刚刚变身后的脚步依然不稳。

 

He was shoved towards what must once have been the altar. Behind that was an old arched ambulatory, and beneath those shadows a set of steps leading down into a grave-like cellar. They began to descend, the strong smell of damp earth rising.  

他被推向曾经是祭坛的地方。在那后面是一个古老的拱形回廊，在那些阴影下有一组通向墓穴般地窖的台阶。他们开始下楼，潮湿的泥土味道越来越浓。

 

“Where are we?” Remus tried asking.  

“我们在哪里？”Remus 试图问道。

 

“We are home.” Castor replied, without looking back.  

“我们在家。”Castor 回答道，没有回头。

 

Livia gave him a rough jab in the back, and he didn’t ask any more questions.  

Livia 粗暴地戳了他的背，他没再问任何问题。

 

They reached the bottom of the stairs, which opened out into a crypt, the vaulted ceiling only just tall enough for Remus to stand straight.  

他们到达楼梯底部，那里打开通向一个地下室，拱形天花板刚好够 Remus 站直。

 

There was not much there. A weird, milky light filled the room but appeared to have no natural source. There were gated chambers either side of the walls, once for tombs, Remus assumed, but now emptied. They had been replaced by blankets, old stained pillows and animal furs.  

那里没什么东西。一个奇怪的乳白色光线充满了房间，但似乎没有自然来源。墙的两边有栅栏的房间，Remus 认为曾经是墓室，但现在已经空了。它们被毯子、旧的染色枕头和动物毛皮取代了。

 

Remus blinked hard, his eyes adjusting to the light, and before he could get his bearings was thrown forward into one of the cells. Livia growled some incantation and the wrought iron bars slammed closed across it, the heavy black chains coiling tight over the lock.  

Remus 用力眨了眨眼睛，眼睛适应光线，尚未找到方位便被扔进一个牢房。Livia 低声咒骂着，一阵铁栏杆砰地关上，沉重的黑色链条紧紧缠绕在锁上。

 

“Oi!” Remus threw himself wildly against the bars, “What the fuck?!”  

“喂！”Remus 猛地撞向铁栏杆，“他妈的！”

 

“Sit.” Livia barked. Remus’s legs folded beneath him and he was down. She smiled at him. “Rest, brother. Patience.”  

“坐下。”Livia 叫道。Remus 的腿在他身下折叠，他坐了下来。她对他笑了笑。“休息，兄弟。耐心点。”

 

“I came here to join you, you can’t treat me like --"  

“我来这里是为了加入你们的，你们不能这样对待我——”

 

“Do not make me silence you.” She hissed.  

“别让我让你闭嘴。”她嘶嘶地说。

 

He shut his mouth - voluntarily. Perhaps it would be better to wait and see, for now. Livia licked her lips. “Try to rest.”  

他主动闭上了嘴。也许现在等着看会更好。Livia 舔了舔嘴唇。“试着休息一下。”

 

She stalked away. Castor was left behind, staring at Rem

 

us, face inscrutable, body still rigid. Remus stared back. His poor face. Had that been because of Remus? Had he been punished for that last time in the Forbidden Forest? His dark eyes bore into Remus for a long time, unflinching, until Remus scowled at him,  

她走开了。Castor 留了下来，盯着 Remus，脸上无动于衷，身体依然僵硬。Remus 也回瞪着他。他那可怜的脸。这是因为 Remus 吗？他是因为上次在禁林被惩罚的吗？他的黑眼睛长时间直视着 Remus，毫不退缩，直到 Remus 对他皱眉，

 

“What?!”  

“怎么了？！”

 

“Is Remus Lupin truly here to join the pack? To submit himself to our father?”  

“Remus Lupin 真的来这里加入狼群了吗？把自己交给我们的父亲？”

 

“What d’you think?!” Remus jutted out his chin, though he knew he hardly looked dignified, sitting on the filthy floor with his arms bound against his body.  

“你觉得呢？！”Remus 突出下巴，虽然他知道自己坐在肮脏的地板上，双臂被绑在身上，几乎没有尊严可言。

 

“I think…” Castor inclined his head slightly, as though nobody had ever asked him about his own thoughts before. “...I think that Remus Lupin does not yet know what he will do.”  

“我觉得……”Castor 略微倾了倾头，仿佛从未有人问过他的想法一样。“……我觉得 Remus Lupin 还不知道自己会做什么。”

 

Remus didn’t have a response for that. Obviously he’d like to think that was not true, that his will was iron, unbreakable. But just now, trapped and unarmed and exhausted, he couldn’t muster up much pride.  

Remus 对此无言以对。显然，他希望这不是真的，希望自己的意志如铁，不可摧毁。但就在此刻，被困住、无武器且疲惫不堪的他，无法激起太多的自豪感。

 

Castor didn’t seem to mind. He just nodded very slightly, and then backed away, into the room. “Rest, Remus lupin.” He said, before turning his back.  

Castor 似乎并不在意。他只是微微点了点头，然后退回到房间里。“休息吧，Remus Lupin。”他说，然后转过身。

 

The crypt was filling up now, the other werewolves were arriving, saturating the room with their scent and their energy. Remus backed into a corner, knees up to his chest, and watched them from the shadows. Their ages only varied slightly - Remus didn’t think any of them were older than thirty. In various states of undress, he could see that all of them were thin and scarred, and some tattooed. None of them were particularly clean.  

地下室现在开始填满，其他狼人陆续到来，他们的气味和能量充满了房间。Remus 退到一个角落里，膝盖紧贴胸口，从阴影中观察他们。他们的年龄差异不大——Remus 认为他们中没有一个超过三十岁。在各种不同的穿着状态下，他看到他们都很瘦削，满是伤痕，有些还有纹身。没有一个特别干净。

 

Still, as they all settled in, apparently to sleep off the events of the full moon, Remus couldn’t help but feel some sense of security and warmth. He was still getting used to being surrounded by his own kind, and the urge to settle down and make himself comfortable as they were all doing was strong. As if their hearts were all beating as one; they were all part of the same body, and now was the time for sleep.  

然而，当他们都安顿下来，显然是为了睡去满月事件，Remus 不禁感到一丝安全感和温暖。他仍在习惯被同类包围的感觉，安顿下来并让自己像他们一样舒适的冲动很强烈。仿佛他们的心跳是一致的；他们都是同一个身体的一部分，现在是睡觉的时候了。

 

Livia was nowhere to be seen, nor Greyback, and Remus took some comfort from this. The dark chamber grew warm, and as the pack settled in quietly, murmuring and whispering amongst themselves as they bedded down, Remus’s eyelids grey heavy and his limbs soft, and eventually the exhaustion caught up with him and he drifted away.  

 

Livia 和 Greyback 都不见踪影，Remus 从中得到了一些安慰。黑暗的房间变得温暖起来，当狼群静静地安顿下来，彼此低声私语时，Remus 的眼皮变得沉重，四肢变得柔软，最终疲惫感袭来，他渐渐入睡。

* * *

“Where are you, you filthy little beast?!” Matron’s nasal voice screeched as she stalked up and down the echoey hallways, high heels clicking like a predator. “When I get my hands on you I’m going to wallop you into next week!”  
“你在哪儿，你这肮脏的小野兽？！”Matron 尖锐的声音在回声荡漾的走廊里回荡，高跟鞋像捕食者一样咔哒作响。“等我抓到你，我要把你打到下个星期！”
Remus curled up even tighter in his hiding place, covering his ears with his hands and squeezing his eyes shut. She’d never find him; he was too good at hiding, and very very small.  
Remus 在他的藏身处蜷缩得更紧，用手捂住耳朵，紧闭双眼。她永远找不到他；他藏得太好了，而且非常非常小。
He was underneath one of the big boys’ beds. He knew he wasn’t supposed to be in their dorm, he’d get beaten up if one of them found him; but he knew how to keep quiet. He’d learnt that in the first few days at St Edmund’s, and now he’d been there for some time he hardly ever got picked on unless he’d really got in someone’s way.  
他藏在一个大男孩的床底下。他知道自己不应该在他们的宿舍，如果被发现会被揍一顿；但他知道如何保持安静。他在圣艾德蒙德的前几天就学会了这一点，现在他在这里已经有一段时间了，几乎从不被欺负，除非他真的惹到谁了。
Remus didn't feel very well. He was starting to hurt all over, and his skin was all hot and prickly.  
Remus 感觉很不舒服。他全身开始疼痛，皮肤又热又刺痛。
He wanted his mummy, but he didn’t know where she was anymore. Maybe she’d gone somewhere with Daddy, and they’d come and get him soon. Maybe they were hunting down the bad man who hurt him.  
他想念妈妈，但他不知道她现在在哪里。也许她和爸爸去了某个地方，他们很快就会来接他。也许他们正在追捕伤害他的坏人。
Remus pinched himself, hard. He didn’t want to think about the scary man. He couldn’t remember very much of it, except when he was really frightened. Pinching helped, except now the hurting all over was getting even worse. The bones in his legs stung, and he desperately wanted to stretch them out, but then someone might see him.  
Remus 狠狠地掐了自己一下。他不想想起那个可怕的男人。他几乎记不清那些事，除非他非常害怕。掐自己有帮助，只是现在全身的疼痛变得更糟了。他的腿骨刺痛，他非常想伸展一下，但那样的话可能会被人发现。
Finally it was too much, and another wave of pain forced him to uncurl, letting out a cry.  
最后，疼痛实在太强烈了，另一波疼痛迫使他伸展开身体，发出一声叫喊。
“Owww….”  
“啊啊……”
“Ah ha!”  
“啊哈！”
Oh no. Matron. Suddenly there was a hand around his ankle, and she yanked him hard out from under the bed.  
不好。Matron。突然有一只手抓住他的脚踝，把他从床底下硬拽出来。
“There you are you little monster! Come with me, you know you’ve got to go to your room.”  
“找到你了，你这个小怪物！跟我来，你知道你必须回到你的房间。”
“No…” he moaned, as she hoisted him up and carried him under one arm. Not the room. He hated his room; it was so scary. “Let me go!” He beat his fists against her, but she barely reacted, marching down the corridor, down the stairs and towards his cell.  
“不……”他呻吟道，她把他举起来，夹在一只胳膊下。不是那个房间。他讨厌他的房间；太可怕了。“放开我！”他用拳头打她，但她几乎没有反应，沿着走廊走下楼梯，朝他的牢房走去。
“Let me go!” He screamed, crying now, snot and tears running down his face, “I want my mummy! I want my mummy!”  
“放开我！”他尖叫着，现在哭了，鼻涕和眼泪顺着脸流下来，“我要妈妈！我要妈妈！”
“She’s not here.” Matron snapped. She opened the door and set him down inside, slamming it shut hard in his face. He heard the bolts go and began to cry harder.  
“她不在这里。”Matron 厉声说。她打开门把他放进去，在他面前狠狠地关上门。他听到插销上锁的声音，哭得更厉害了。
It was so dark.  
好黑啊。
He was scared of the dark, ever since the bad man, and Mummy always let him have the hallway light on. But Matron wasn’t like Mummy; she never did nice things, only horrible things, because he’d been so bad. Was he here because he was bad? Was that why Mummy didn’t want him, and Daddy went away?  
自从那个坏人之后，他一直害怕黑暗，妈妈总是让走廊的灯亮着。但 Matron 不像妈妈；她从不做善事，只做可怕的事情，因为他太坏了。他在这里是因为他坏吗？这就是妈妈不想要他，爸爸离开的原因吗？
He sobbed and screamed, but nobody came. It was too scary, and too dark, and it hurt, it hurt it hurt…. A horrible growling filled his head, and suddenly Remus remembered why he didn’t feel well, and why he had to be locked in his room.  
他抽泣着尖叫，但没有人来。太可怕了，太黑了，疼痛，疼痛疼痛……一阵可怕的咆哮充满了他的脑海，Remus 突然记起为什么他感觉不舒服，以及为什么他必须被锁在房间里。
Remus awoke with a start. His face was wet with tears, and he was sweating all over. It took him long seconds to remember that he was nineteen, not six, and not locked in his cell at St Edmund’s.  
Remus 猛然惊醒。他的脸上满是泪水，全身都在出汗。他花了好几秒钟才想起自己已经十九岁了，不是六岁，也没有被关在圣艾德蒙德的牢房里。
He hadn’t thought about the Home for a long time - and he tried never to re-hash those memories. His heart pounded in his ears, adrenaline coursed through him and he struggled to get his emotions back under control.  
他已经很久没有想过那个孤儿院了——他试图不再重温那些记忆。他的心在耳边怦怦直跳，肾上腺素在体内奔流，他努力控制住自己的情绪。
He was being watched. It was Jeremy - the young man Gaius had been recruiting back in the Manticore’s head. He was leaning against the bars, peering at Remus,  
有人在看他。是 Jeremy——那个 Gaius 在狮蝎头酒吧招募的年轻人。他靠在栏杆上，盯着 Remus，
“Bad dream?” He asked, his voice rasping, as though he was getting over a bad cold. He was thinner than Remus remembered.  
“做噩梦了？”他问道，声音嘶哑，仿佛刚刚康复了严重的感冒。他比 Remus 记得的要瘦。
Remus straightened up quickly, reaching up to wipe his face with the back of his sleeves, finding that the ropes had mysteriously vanished. Had someone come in and untied him? Had Livia done it somehow?  
Remus 迅速挺直身子，用袖子的背面擦脸，发现绳子神秘地消失了。有人进来解开他了吗？是 Livia 做的吗？
The room behind Jeremy was empty, now; it was just the two of them.  
Jeremy 身后的房间现在是空的；只有他们两个人。
“It’s ok,” Jeremy said, conversationally, “I had bad dreams too, when I first got here. We all do. They tell us it’s all of the old stuff coming to the surface; the memories we don’t need. Once they’re gone, we can start our new lives with the pack.”  
“没关系，”Jeremy 随意地说，“我刚来这里时也做噩梦。我们都会。他们告诉我们，那是所有旧东西浮出水面的过程；那些我们不需要的记忆。一旦它们消失了，我们就可以和狼群一起开始新的生活。”
“Were you all locked up like this?” Remus asked, his throat sore. He was thirsty, but he didn’t want to look weak.  
“
你们也都像这样被关起来吗？”Remus 问道，喉咙疼痛。他口渴，但不想显得软弱。
“No.” Jeremy shrugged. “Just you. They’re worried about you. After what you pulled back in the pub. And there are other stories. They talk about you sometimes.”  
“没有。”Jeremy 耸耸肩。“只有你。他们担心你。在酒吧发生的事情之后。还有其他的故事。他们有时会谈论你。”
“Who does? Livia? Castor? Greyback?”  
“谁在谈论？Livia？Castor？Greyback？”
Jeremy shrugged again, apathetic.  
Jeremy 再次耸肩，无动于衷。
“Yeah. That lot. They’re in charge. Livia’s first, because she was turned by Greyback. You get better stuff, if you’re a direct descendent.”  
“是的。那伙人。他们负责。Livia 是第一，因为她是被 Greyback 变成的。要是你是直系后代，你会得到更好的待遇。”
Remus snorted. He wondered if Jeremy knew that he had been turned by Greyback too, and whether or not being tied up and thrown in a cell counted as ‘better stuff’.  
Remus 哼了一声。他想知道 Jeremy 是否知道自己也是被 Greyback 变成的，以及被绑起来扔进牢房是否算作“更好的待遇”。
Jeremy began to cough, a deep, chesty crackle, which wracked his body and doubled him over. He pulled his fur cloak tighter around his skinny frame, and Remus finally felt something beyond fear or anger. He felt sympathy.  
Jeremy 开始咳嗽，深沉的胸腔咔嗒声，使他的身体剧烈颤抖，把他折叠起来。他把毛皮披风裹得更紧，终于让 Remus 感到一种超越恐惧或愤怒的情感。他感到同情。
“Do you all live here, in this place?” He asked, softly, looking around at the dank cellar. “Between the moons?”  
“你们都住在这里吗，在这个地方？”他轻声问，环顾潮湿的地窖。“月圆之间？”
Jeremy nodded.  
Jeremy 点点头。
“Better than where I was before.” He said. Then, as if bored with the conversation, he simply stepped away. “I’m hungry.” he said blandly. “I’ll tell someone you’re awake. See you.”  
“比我以前的地方好。”他说。然后，好像对谈话感到厌倦，他简单地走开了。“我饿了。”他平淡地说。“我会告诉别人你醒了。再见。”
And Remus was alone again. He climbed to his feet, carefully, checking that nothing was broken or sprained or too sore. No, he actually felt better than he usually did, after a moon - even with Madam Pomfrey’s care. If only he wasn’t trapped. If only they hadn’t destroyed his wand. He reached into his jeans and found that they’d left him with his pocket watch, at least.  
Remus 又一次独自一人。他小心地站起来，检查没有什么断裂或扭伤或太疼。没有，实际上他感觉比平时好，甚至比 Madam Pomfrey 照顾下的月圆之夜还要好。如果他没有被困住就好了。如果他们没有摧毁他的魔杖就好了。他伸手到牛仔裤里，发现他们至少把他的怀表留给了他。
Remus held the heavy metal object in his hand, letting it grow warm against his skin. He thought about Sirius - though he knew he ought not to; he didn’t know who was listening in on his thoughts, and even if nobody was; Sirius was a weakness.  
Remus 握着这个沉重的金属物体，让它在皮肤上变暖。他想到了天狼星——虽然他知道自己不应该这样；他不知道谁在监听他的想法，即使没有人监听；天狼星是一个弱点。
Was he worried? He must be, Remus told himself. That’s what love was, surely.  
他担心吗？他一定担心，Remus 告诉自己。这就是爱，对吧。
Had he gone to the castle ruin in Cornwall, where they’d agreed to meet? Had he waited and waited, wondering where Remus was, what had become of him? Perhaps he’d raised the alarm; told the Potters first, then got hold of Moody, or even Dumbledore. Remus didn’t think either would be much help. As far as they were concerned, Remus would be in one of three situations:  
他去过他们约定见面的康沃尔城堡废墟了吗？他等待了又等待，想知道 Remus 在哪里，发生了什么事？也许他发出了警报；先告诉了波特夫妇，然后联系了穆迪，甚至是邓布利多。Remus 不认为他们中的任何一个会有多大帮助。在他们看来，Remus 会处于以下三种情况之一：
Dead.  
死亡。
Completing his mission to infiltrate the werewolves.  
完成他渗透狼人群体的任务。
Turned double agent and actually joined the werewolves.  
变成双重间谍并实际上加入了狼人群体。
And from Moody’s perspective, whichever it was, Remus was best left where he was. He hoped no one had said that to Sirius.  
从穆迪的角度来看，无论是哪种情况，Remus 最好还是呆在原地。他希望没人对天狼星这么说。
Already feeling his resolve slipping. Remus forced Sirius to the back of his mind. There was nothing he could do but try his hardest to see the mission through, stay alive, and get back to him. That had to be his focus.  
已经感觉到决心在动摇。Remus 强迫自己把天狼星放在脑后。他除了尽最大努力完成任务，活下去，回到他身边，什么也做不了。这必须是他的重点。
He paced the cell a few times. It wasn’t big; maybe five steps across, three deep. The animal pelts it had been lined with were deer and bear, and something else Remus didn't recognise. Not wolf. Not anything native to Britain. He touched the bars; they felt weirdly warm and seemed to hum against his skin. Magic.  
他在牢房里走了几步。它不大；大概五步宽，三步深。里面铺的动物皮是鹿和熊，还有一些 Remus 不认识的东西。不是狼。不是英国本土的任何东西。他摸了摸栏杆；它们感觉奇怪的温暖，似乎在他的皮肤上嗡嗡作响。魔法。
Having a sudden brainwave, Remus stepped back and closed his eyes. He was a bit stiff and still foggy from sleep, but the magic was there, in the room. Leftover from the pack, and from Livia’s binding spells. He tried to gather some of it into himself. It was very difficult, without a wand, and with his nerves so shaken.  
突然灵机一动，Remus 退后一步，闭上眼睛。他有点僵硬，睡意朦胧，但魔法就在房间里。残留的魔法来自狼群和 Livia 的绑定咒语。他试图将其中一些聚集到自己身上。没有魔杖很难，而且他的神经非常紧张。
He pulled and tugged at the atmosphere around him, but it was like trying to smoke an unlit cigarette. Nothing came through, and he just got out of breath. The magic seemed just beyond his grasp.  
他拉扯着周围的气氛，但这就像试图吸一支未点燃的香烟。什么也没发生，他只是气喘吁吁。魔法似乎就在他掌握之外。
“Admirable efforts, dearest.”  
“令人钦佩的努力，亲爱的。”
Remus opened his eyes and jumped, seeing Livia now standing in the middle of the room. She grinned at his discomfort, and gestured to Jeremy, who was coming down the steps behind her, holding a large pewter jug and a plate with some food on it. Bread and meat - it smelled like rabbit, and Remus hoped it was. He began to salivate almost at once.  
Remus 睁开眼睛，吓了一跳，看到 Livia 站在房间中间。她对他的不适露出笑容，并示意 Jeremy，后者正从她身后的台阶上走下来，手里拿着一个大锡罐和一盘食物。面包和肉——闻起来像兔子肉，Remus 希望真是。他几乎立刻开始流口水。
Livia snapped her fingers, and the jug and plate left Jeremy’s hands and appeared on the floor of Remus’s cell with a *pop*. So, he thought. You could transport things through the bars. That meant he could get out of them, if he tried hard enough.  
Livia 打了个响指，罐子和盘子从 Jeremy 手中消失，出现在 Remus 牢房的地板上，
发出“啪”的一声。所以，他想。你可以通过栏杆传送东西。这意味着如果他努力尝试，他可以逃出去。
“Eat up, my darling,” Livia purred. “Father wishes us to be strong.”  
“吃吧，亲爱的，”Livia 嗲声说道。“父亲希望我们变得强壮。”
“Thank you.” Remus said. He made eye contact with her, and tried to hold it. That had worked with Gaius - and accidentally with Danny. They’d submitted to him, eventually.  
“谢谢。”Remus 说。他与她对视，试图保持。那对 Gaius 起作用了——无意中对 Danny 也起作用了。最终，他们屈服于他。
Livia returned his stare and smiled, looking very pleased.  
Livia 回视他，微笑着，看起来非常满意。
“That’s my boy.”  
“这才是我的好孩子。”
“Where’s Greyback?”  
“Greyback 在哪里？”
“Show some respect.” Her eyes flashed, and Remus felt a stabbing pain in his skull. He gasped, pressing a flat palm to his forehead, “He is our father.” Livia hissed.  
“表示点尊重。”她的眼睛闪了一下，Remus 感到头骨刺痛。他倒吸了一口气，平平地按着额头，“他是我们的父亲。”Livia 嘶嘶地说。
“All right!” He yelped, “Where is our… our father?” It made him sick to say it.  
“好吧！”他叫道，“我们的……我们的父亲在哪里？”说这话让他恶心。
“That is none of your concern.”  
“这与你无关。”
“I want to speak to him!”  
“我想和他谈谈！”
“In time. Once you have proved yourself.”  
“到了时候。一旦你证明了自己。”
“How am I supposed to prove anything locked up in here?!” Remus raged, frustrated. Livia just smiled back at him.  
“我被关在这里怎么证明自己？！”Remus 愤怒地喊道，感到沮丧。Livia 只是对他微笑。
“Remus Lupin will find a way. Goodbye, brother. Do remember to eat something.”  
“Remus Lupin 会找到办法的。再见，兄弟。记得吃点东西。”
She turned and stalked out, snapping her fingers at Jeremy as she did so. He scurried to follow her back up the stairs, giving one backward glance at Remus as he did, and mouthing, ‘Sorry .’  
她转身走出去，对 Jeremy 打了个响指。他急忙跟着她上楼梯，回头看了一眼 Remus，口型说了句“对不起”。
Remus watched their feet disappear as they reached the top of the stairs, and then heard a loud grinding noise as something heavy closed over the hatch. The strange light that had illuminated the room all this time went out, like a light switch, and Remus was left alone, locked in the dark.  
Remus 看着他们的脚消失在楼梯顶端，然后听到一声巨响，仿佛有什么重物关上了舱口。一直照亮房间的奇异光芒熄灭了，就像开关灯一样，Remus 独自一人被困在黑暗中。

 

Chapter 159: The War: SubmissionOh! You silly thing

You've really gone and done it now

Oh! You silly thing

You really gone and done it now

 

* * *

Sunday 25th March 1979

Remus was going mad.

That was the only explanation. 那是唯一的解释。

 

Time passed slowly, each second eeked out over weeks - and then hours whooshed by all at once, like missiles, knocking the breath out of him. 时间缓慢地流逝，每一秒都被拖延成数周——然后几小时又像导弹一样呼啸而过，让他喘不过气来。

 

They brought him meals, and that was the only way he could measure out his days. No one spoke to him; perhaps they had been warned not to. Perhaps it was part of his proving himself. They looked, though. They stared. 他们给他送饭，这是他唯一能衡量日子的方式。没有人和他说话；也许他们被警告不要这么做。也许这是他证明自己的部分。他们会看着他，盯着他。

 

The pack returned every night to sleep - sometimes Livia, Gaius and Castor were there. Other times not. Never Greyback, though sometimes Remus thought he could smell him - but that might have been the madness. After two days in the dark he didn’t trust his senses. 每天晚上，狼群都会回来睡觉——有时Livia、Gaius和Castor在，有时则不在。Greyback从未出现过，虽然有时Remus觉得能闻到他的气味——但那可能是疯了。在黑暗中待了两天后，他不再相信自己的感官。

 

After a week, he trusted nothing. 一周后，他不再相信任何事物。

 

He was never quite comfortable, always restless and exhausted; pacing until his feet were bruised. He slept little and often; caught between fitful bursts of unconsciousness and insomnia. And he had terrible dreams. Every bad memory squirmed its way up to surface of his mind. Mostly St Edmund’s, but also that summer after fifth year, when he’d been at his loneliest, and hated Sirius. 他从未感到舒适，总是焦躁不安，疲惫不堪；不停地踱步，直到脚上满是瘀伤。他很少睡觉，而且睡得很不踏实；在间歇性失去意识和失眠之间挣扎。他有可怕的梦。每一个糟糕的记忆都在他的脑海中蠕动，浮上表面。主要是St Edmund’s，但也包括五年级后的那个夏天，那是他最孤独的时候，也是他恨天狼星的时候。

 

He grew paranoid, convinced that it was the others - they were controlling his mind, somehow; forcing him to see things he didn’t want to see; things that weren’t there. 他变得偏执，确信是其他人——他们以某种方式控制了他的思想；迫使他看到他不想看到的东西；那些不存在的东西。

 

Sometimes he dreamed Sirius was dead. Then, when that had wrung all the terror out of him, he dreamed of each of his friends dying, one by one. Their ghosts visited him, weeping or raging. When he woke up, he never felt like they’d quite gone. 有时他梦到天狼星死了。然后，当恐惧消退时，他梦到他的每个朋友一个接一个地死去。他们的鬼魂来找他，哭泣或愤怒。当他醒来时，他从未觉得他们完全消失过。

 

Other times Remus wondered if in fact he was dead, and this was some extremely specifically designed hell. 其他时候，Remus怀疑自己是否已经死了，而这只是一个极其特定设计的地狱。

 

By the end of the first week, he had lost all sense of shame. He wept, he howled, he keened. He laughed maniacally, or else curled up in the corner and whispered to himself. He tried to have conversations in his head, but it didn’t work the same way as before. Grant’s calming voice transformed into Livia, Sirius into Castor, and Remus was left with no escape at all. 到了第一周结束时，他失去了所有的羞耻感。他哭泣，嚎叫，哀悼。他疯狂地笑，或者蜷缩在角落里自言自语。他试图在脑海中进行对话，但不再像以前那样有效。Grant平静的声音变成了Livia，天狼星变成了Castor，Remus彻底无处可逃。

 

In moments of lucidity, he tried to summon more magic, but it was very hard, and he was so weak. 在清醒的时刻，他试图召唤更多的魔法，但这非常困难，他太虚弱了。

 

Sometimes he thought he could do it. One of the others might perform a spell (always wandless; none of them ever did magic the wizard way) to summon something, or illuminate the room - and Remus felt that old stirring of power. But it never lasted long enough. 有时他觉得自己可以做到。其他人可能会施展一个咒语（总是无杖的；他们都不按巫师的方式使用魔法）来召唤某物，或照亮房间——Remus感觉到那种旧的力量涌动。但这种感觉从未持续足够长的时间。

 

Finally, Remus’s parents appeared to him - in his head, but also in the cell. Hope was crying - she was still sick, even in death, her face gaunt and haggard. She wore a white shroud, and there was earth in her fair hair - even though Remus knew she’d been cremated. 最后，Remus的父母出现在他面前——在他的脑海中，也在牢房里。Hope在哭泣——她甚至在死后仍然生病，脸色憔悴。她穿着白色的裹尸布，金发上沾满了泥土——尽管Remus知道她已经被火化了。

 

Lyall was the worst, though; maybe because Remus had no solid basis for him, beyond a few candid photographs. The Lyall his feverish imagination dreamt up was heartlessly cruel, with a plummy, upper-class accent and cold blue eyes. 然而，Lyall是最糟糕的；也许是因为Remus对他没有实质性的了解，除了几张偷拍的照片。他那发烧般的想象中出现的Lyall无情地残忍，说着上流社会的圆润口音，眼睛冰冷而蓝。

 

“Let that animal destroy my wand, did you?” The spindly ghost whispered in his ear, “I should have put you out of your misery, all those years ago.” “让那个动物毁了我的魔杖，是吗？”瘦长的鬼魂在他耳边低语，“我早该在那些年前就让你解脱了。”

 

While the other ghosts shamed him, made him feel small and sorry, Lyall had only ever made Remus angry. He raved like a madman at his father, and flung himself at the walls of his cage. 其他鬼魂让他感到羞愧，让他感到渺小和抱歉，而Lyall只会让Remus生气。他像疯子一样对父亲咆哮，猛撞牢笼的墙壁。

 

“Peace, brother.” Castor appeared at the bars, after Remus had been doing this for some time. “This is not the way.” “冷静，兄弟。”Castor出现在栏杆旁，Remus这样做了一段时间后。“这不是办法。”

 

“Fuck off!” Remus snarled, holding his head in his hands as he tried to ground himself in reality. “滚开！”Remus咆哮道，双手抱头，试图让自己回到现实中。

 

Castor withdrew. Remus continued to suffer. He curled up on the floor and covered his head like a wounded dog. That made him think of Sirius. Castor退后了。Remus继续受苦。他蜷缩在地板上，像受伤的狗一样抱住头。这让他想起了天狼星。

 

Stupid thoughts occurred to him, like - where was Sirius staying? At the Potters’? At their flat? Remus didn’t like the idea of Sirius all alone. Was he eating properly? Was he smoking too much? Had he fallen off that stupid bike yet, and broken his neck?! 愚蠢的想法出现在他脑海中，比如——天狼星住在哪？在Potter家？在他们的公寓？Remus不喜欢天狼星独自一人的想法。他吃得好吗？抽烟太多了吗？他从那辆愚蠢的自行车上摔下来了吗，摔断了脖子？！

 

Was anyone even looking for Remus? 有人找过Remus吗？

 

He shut his eyes and tried to pretend he was somewhere else. At home in his tiny London flat, reading the paper. Or in his old bed at Hogwarts, with the curtains drawn over. 他闭上眼睛，试图假装自己在别的地方。在伦敦的小公寓里看报纸。或者在霍格沃茨的旧床上，拉上窗帘。

 

At night in the crypt, Remus could hear the rest of the pack breathing, snoring, rolling over

 

. Some of them cried, maybe when they thought no one else was awake. Most of the coughed, a result of the damp conditions. After a week, Remus caught the cough too, and felt weaker than ever. 在地下室的夜晚，Remus能听到其他狼群的呼吸声、鼾声和翻身声。他们中的一些人哭泣，也许是在认为其他人都没醒时。大多数人咳嗽，这是潮湿环境的结果。一周后，Remus也开始咳嗽，感觉比以往更虚弱。

 

He’d never been bulky, exactly - he’d always been decidedly skinny, even after seven years of Hogwarts food. But now Remus barely recognised his own body - the bones in his hips became sharp, his drainpipe jeans slipped down his waist, his ribs stuck up like branches on a winter tree, and his skin grew dry and raw, cracking in places. 他从来不算壮实——他一直很瘦，甚至在霍格沃茨七年之后也是如此。但现在Remus几乎认不出自己的身体了——他的髋骨变得尖锐，紧身牛仔裤滑下腰部，肋骨像冬天的树枝一样突起，皮肤变得干燥粗糙，有些地方开始裂开。

 

This physical weakness only compounded Remus’s despair - who did he think he was, joining some stupid rebel army right after school? Had none of the hundreds of books he’d read imbued him with any common sense?! 这种身体上的虚弱只加剧了Remus的绝望——他以为自己是谁，刚毕业就加入了什么愚蠢的叛军？他读的几百本书难道没有给他灌输任何常识吗？！

 

Of course he couldn’t go up against Greyback - the idea was laughable. So laughable, in fact, that Greyback wasn’t even going to kill him. Remus was not worth the effort. He was simply going to waste away to nothing in this cell, and nobody would ever know. 当然，他不可能与Greyback对抗——这个想法太可笑了。事实上，Greyback甚至不打算杀他。Remus不值得费这个劲。他只会在这个牢房里白白消耗，直到什么都不剩，没人会知道。

 

“You are not trying.” Castor said, returning to view him. “你没有在尝试。”Castor说，再次来看他。

 

Maybe it had only been a few hours since the first time he’d tried to get through to Remus. Maybe it had been days. 也许自从他第一次试图接近Remus以来，才过了几个小时。也许已经几天了。

 

It must have been daytime, because no one else was in the crypt. 一定是白天，因为地下室里没有其他人。

 

“Let me out!” Remus babbled, clutching at the bars of his cage. “Please!” “放我出去！”Remus胡言乱语，抓住牢笼的栏杆。“求你了！”

 

“Let yourself out.” Castor returned, coldly. “你自己出来。”Castor冷冷地回答。

 

“I don’t have my wand!” “我没有魔杖！”

 

Castor tutted at him. He held out his empty palm, and a blood red flame appeared in it. It lent a soft, alluring glow to Castor’s features, blurring the jagged edges of his scar and making him beautiful again. Castor啧啧作响。他伸出空手掌，一团血红色的火焰出现了。它给Castor的面容带来了柔和的、诱人的光芒，模糊了他伤疤的锯齿边缘，使他再次美丽起来。

 

“We do not need wands, Remus, we do not borrow magic like common humans.” “我们不需要魔杖，Remus，我们不像普通人类那样借用魔法。”

 

“I don’t have enough.” Remus groaned, slumping back. “我没有足够的力量。”Remus呻吟着，瘫倒在地。

 

“Idiot.” Castor said, closing his hand over the flame, burning it into a fist. “You are brimming with it. You are still thinking like a human. Why do you think he put you here?” “笨蛋。”Castor说，合上手掌，把火焰烧成拳头。“你充满了它。你还在像人类一样思考。你认为他为什么把你放在这里？”

 

“To watch me die.” “看着我死。”

 

“Idiot.” Castor repeated, shaking his head disdainfully. “笨蛋。”Castor重复道，轻蔑地摇头。

 

“Why, then?!” Remus growled. “那为什么？！”Remus咆哮道。

 

Castor glanced around covertly to confirm that they were alone. He came closer. His scent was stronger as he positioned himself right up against the cell bars, and Remus felt an involuntary pull of attraction towards him. Castor lowered his voice, Castor偷偷环顾四周，确认他们独处。他靠近了。他的气味更浓烈，因为他把自己靠近牢笼的栏杆，Remus感觉到一种不由自主的吸引力。Castor压低声音，

 

“You are being tested, you fool. You are only the fourth child of Greyback to return to him - do you know what position that gives you?! What kind of power?! You’ve seen Livia and Gaius, you know what you are capable of.” “你正在接受测试，傻瓜。你是第四个回到Greyback身边的孩子——你知道这给你什么地位吗？！什么样的力量？！你见过Livia和Gaius，你知道你能做到什么。”

 

“But why--” “但为什么——”

 

“You attacked Gaius. Last summer. Greyback is worried about you now - he won’t say it, but he is. No one challenges those two, no one.” “你攻击了Gaius。去年夏天。Greyback现在担心你——他不会说，但他确实担心。没有人挑战那两个人，没有人。”

 

“I didn’t mean to challenge anyone, he attacked me first, and I--” “我不是想挑战任何人，是他先攻击我的，我——”

 

“You acted like a wolf.” Castor said, triumphantly, his soft lips curling at the corners, “And that is what you must do now.” “你表现得像一只狼。”Castor得意地说，他柔软的嘴唇在嘴角弯曲，“这就是你现在必须做的。”

 

“Why are you telling me this?” Remus eyed him suspiciously. Because it made a weird kind of sense, now, as if Castor had shaken him awake. “你为什么告诉我这些？”Remus怀疑地看着他。因为这现在有了一种奇怪的意义，好像Castor把他唤醒了一样。

 

“Because you are no good to me in this cage.” Castor said, dark eyes burning with intensity. “A year ago Remus Lupin spoke to me of change. Of a better life. I have not forgotten.” “因为你在这个牢笼里对我没有任何用处。”Castor说，黑色的眼睛燃烧着强烈的光芒。“一年前，Remus Lupin对我说起过改变。说过更好的生活。我没有忘记。”

 

“I seem to remember you laughing in my face.” Remus returned, bitterly, “‘The pack is everything’, wasn’t that what you said?” “我记得你当时在我面前笑了。”Remus苦涩地回答，“‘狼群就是一切’，那不是你说的吗？”

 

“The pack is everything.” Castor said, fiercely. “That has not changed. Other things have. You are not without allies, here.” “狼群就是一切。”Castor猛烈地说。“这一点没有改变。其他事情已经改变了。你在这里并不是没有盟友。”

 

“If you want my help so badly, then you get me out.” Remus said. “如果你那么想要我的帮助，那你就把我弄出去。”Remus说。

 

Castor raised an eyebrow, giving Remus a long hard appraising look. Castor扬起眉毛，给了Remus一个长时间的严厉审视。

 

“It will be better for you if you do it yourself. The others must see you succeed.” “如果你自己做到会更好。其他人必须看到你的成功。”

 

 

Remus was about to ask another question, when the atmosphere changed - Livia was coming. Castor backed away quickly, and said nothing more. Remus watched him from a distance, his mind finally beginning to work. Remus正要问另一个问题，这时气氛变了——Livia来了。Castor迅速退后，再也没说什么。Remus从远处看着他，脑子终于开始运转。

 

* * *

He needed magic. He needed power, and he needed a good strong emotion to get it all going. Luckily, Remus had always had strong emotions in abundance. That, and patience. 他需要魔法。他需要力量，还需要一种强烈的情感来启动这一切。幸运的是，Remus一直情感充沛。还有耐心。
Buoyed by Castor’s intriguing proposition, Remus found it much easier to concentrate, and to stay calm. Now that he knew he was not entirely alone, the ghostly apparitions became easier to ignore. 受到Castor引人入胜的建议的鼓舞，Remus发现集中注意力和保持冷静变得容易多了。现在他知道自己并不完全孤单，那些幽灵般的幻象也变得更容易忽略。
And he started to notice things. Like how the other werewolves were not as homogeneous as they first seemed. They were all fairly young - clearly Greyback had a preferred type; not one of them seemed older than twenty-five. They were all thin and scarred. 他开始注意到一些事情。比如其他狼人并不像最初看上去那样同质化。他们都相当年轻——显然Greyback有一个偏好类型；没有一个看起来超过二十五岁。他们都瘦削而伤痕累累。
But the more Remus watched them, the more he saw their differences. Friendships and alliances; grudges and feuds, likes and dislikes. 但Remus越是观察他们，就越能看到他们的不同。友谊和联盟；怨恨和纷争，喜好和厌恶。
When he paid very close attention, Remus could even tell how long each of them had been werewolves - it was clear from the hierarchy. The younger set fell in two camps; fanatics who worshipped Livia and Gaius, and those who were less sure, less comfortable with this weird subterranean lifestyle. They tended to side with Castor; sleeping on one side of the crypt, talking amongst themselves. 当他非常仔细地观察时，Remus甚至可以看出他们每个人成为狼人的时间长短——从等级制度中可以看出。年轻的一代分为两派；崇拜Livia和Gaius的狂热分子，以及那些不太确定、不太适应这种奇怪地下生活方式的人。他们倾向于站在Castor一边；睡在地下室的一侧，互相交谈。
Gaius in particular seemed troubled by this group. He stalked the crypt floor every evening, demanding quiet, ordering them to lie further apart. Remus knew from their first meeting in the Manticore’s Head that Gaius had a short fuse, and as soon as Remus latched onto this idea, he knew he had to come up with a way to exploit it. 尤其是Gaius，对这个群体似乎感到烦恼。他每晚都在地下室里徘徊，要求安静，命令他们分开躺下。Remus从他们在Manticore’s Head的第一次见面中就知道Gaius脾气暴躁，一旦Remus抓住这个想法，他就知道自己必须想办法利用它。
Help eventually came from an unexpected quarter. Jeremy, one of the very youngest members of the pack, and so far the only one who’d spoken to Remus other than Castor and Livia, got bored easily. He had a mischievous side which reminded Remus of James and Sirius - he often cracked jokes to make the others laugh, and was one of the more vocal complainers when it came to living conditions. 最终，帮助来自一个意想不到的方面。Jeremy是狼群中最年轻的成员之一，到目前为止，除了Castor和Livia之外，他是唯一一个和Remus说过话的人。他很容易感到无聊。他有一种恶作剧的一面，让Remus想起了James和天狼星——他经常开玩笑逗其他人笑，也是对生活条件抱怨最多的人之一。
Gaius disliked him immensely, of course, and never missed an opportunity to put him back in his place. 当然，Gaius非常不喜欢他，从不放过任何一个把他压回原位的机会。
One evening, as everyone was settling down to sleep, Jeremy was struck by a particularly violent coughing fit. In Remus’s opinion, he was definitely hamming it up, it went on a lot longer than was probably necessary. 一天晚上，当大家都准备睡觉时，Jeremy突然剧烈地咳嗽起来。在Remus看来，他肯定是在夸张，这场咳嗽持续的时间比可能需要的时间长得多。
“Control yourself, brother.” Gaius hissed, on his feet at once, crossing the crypt to stand over Jeremy, teeth bared. “控制你自己，兄弟。”Gaius嘶嘶地说，立刻站起来，穿过地下室站在Jeremy上方，露出牙齿。
“Sor- ry ,” Jeremy spluttered, scowling sarcastically, “I can’t help it, it’s the damp!” “对-不起，”Jeremy喷溅着说，讽刺地皱眉，“我控制不住，这里太潮湿了！”
“Your brothers and sisters seem to manage well enough.” Gaius returned, bored. “你的兄弟姐妹们似乎应付得很好。”Gaius无聊地回答。
Jeremy snorted. Gaius raised a hand, as if about to cast a spell. Jeremy哼了一声。Gaius抬起一只手，仿佛要施咒。
“Perhaps you need to be reminded how to behave.” “也许你需要被提醒一下如何表现。”
Jeremy licked his lips, nervously, and fell quiet. Castor, who had been sitting nearby, stood up. He placed a hand on Gaius’s shoulder, Jeremy紧张地舔了舔嘴唇，安静下来。Castor一直坐在附近，站了起来。他把一只手放在Gaius的肩膀上，
“I will speak to him, brother. Do not concern yourself.” “我会和他说的，兄弟。别担心。”
“Our father demands obedience.” Gaius hissed. Castor’s eyes flashed, “我们的父亲要求服从。”Gaius嘶嘶地说。Castor的眼睛闪过一丝光芒，
“I am well aware of our father’s demands.” “我很清楚我们父亲的要求。”
Gaius clearly wanted to retort, but seeing the fire in Castor’s expression thought better of it and withdrew, skulking away, snapping angrily at three young women huddled together who had been watching the whole thing. Gaius显然想要反驳，但看到Castor脸上的火焰，改变了主意，退了下去，躲闪着离开，愤怒地对三个挤在一起观看整个过程的年轻女子怒吼。
Castor crouched and whispered to Jeremy, Castor蹲下，对Jeremy低声说，
“Do not provoke him.” “不要激怒他。”
“He’s a prick! He’s not Greyback, he can’t order us about!” “他是个混蛋！他不是Greyback，他不能指挥我们！”
“Do not provoke him.” Castor repeated, a note of warning in his voice. It was not heeded. “不要激怒他。”Castor重复道，语气中带着警告。这没有被听从。
“I was coughing! I couldn’t help it! Not as if I was whistling a jaunty tune!” “我在咳嗽！我控制不住！又不是在吹轻快的曲子！”
Giggling from the women nearby. 附近的女人们咯咯笑了起来。
“Peace.” Castor said. “安静。”Castor说。
Everyone seemed to settle down after that; order and quiet were restored. Remus sat leaning against the back wall of his cell, arms hugging his knees. In one hand he clutched his pocket watch, which had grown hot and slippery from being held all the time. 之后，大家似乎都安静了下来；秩序和安静得到了恢复。Remus坐在牢房的后墙上，双臂抱着膝盖。一只手紧握着他的怀表，由于一直握着，它变得热而滑。
Suddenly, there was a long, low whistle. Remus’s eyes snapped open, his stomach turning over. That maniac. 突然，响起了一声长长的、低低的口哨声。Remus的眼睛猛地睁开，肚子翻腾。那个疯子。
The girls near Jeremy were giggling again as he began to whistle a little tune - Remus thought it sounded like ‘Mary had a Little Lamb’, but he wasn’t good with nursery rhymes. Jeremy附近的女孩们再次咯咯笑了起来，因为他开始吹起一小段曲调——Remus认为它听起来像是《Mary had a Little Lamb》，但他不擅长童谣。
It only lasted a few bars - Gaius was on him in seconds, snarling, hands around Jeremy’s throat. The young man’s body went stiff as a board, and Rem
us could instantly smell the charcoal black magic Gaius was using to subdue him. 它只持续了几小节——Gaius在几秒钟内就扑向了他，咆哮着，双手掐住Jeremy的喉咙。年轻人的身体僵硬如板，Remus立刻闻到了Gaius用来制服他的木炭黑魔法。
It was like a faint tingling sensation; all of the hairs on his arm stood up. Remus closed his eyes and inhaled, drinking in the magical energy as though he had been thirsting for it. The deliciousness was heightened by Gaius’s terrible rage; by his flaming desire to hurt. 就像一种轻微的刺痛感；他手臂上的所有毛发都竖了起来。Remus闭上眼睛，吸气，吸收着魔法能量，就像他一直渴望的一样。Gaius的可怕愤怒和他炽烈的伤害欲望使这种美妙感增强了。
That was it. That was it! Remus was giddy with excitement as the pieces clicked into place. 就是这样。就是这样！随着所有的拼图拼合到位，Remus兴奋得头晕目眩。
“Brother,” Livia’s voice now. She slinked across the floor towards Gaius, languid as a cat. “Leave the pup. He is restless and spirited, that is all.” “兄弟，”现在是Livia的声音。她像猫一样懒洋洋地在地板上走向Gaius。“放过这只小狗。他只是有些不安和活跃，仅此而已。”
Gaius released Jeremy, who collapsed back, coughing harder than before now. Remus could smell the salt from his tears. Castor knelt beside the young man, a kind hand on his shoulder. Gaius放开了Jeremy，他倒回去，现在咳得比以前更厉害了。Remus闻到了他眼泪中的盐味。Castor跪在年轻人旁边，温柔地拍着他的肩膀。
Remus began to think quickly. He was rubbish at whistling - he could wolf whistle (and did Sirius love the irony of that), but he couldn't carry a tune. What else would be annoying? He needed Gaius’s attention - he needed his rage. Remus开始迅速思考。他吹口哨很糟糕——他可以吹狼哨（天狼星对此爱极了这种讽刺），但他不能吹出曲调。还有什么会惹人烦呢？他需要Gaius的注意——他需要他的愤怒。
He cleared his sore throat. 他清了清疼痛的喉咙。
“Still dunno what I was waiting for…” Remus tried, his voice a bit croaky and reedy from lack of use. “还不知道我在等什么……”Remus试探着说，由于长期未用，他的声音有些沙哑。
There was a flutter of movement, a sense of ears pricking up, as if they were waiting to see what he was up to. It was badly out of tune, too, but it was the only song he could remember all the words to. 有一阵骚动，一种耳朵竖起的感觉，仿佛他们在等待看他要做什么。它也严重走调了，但这是他唯一能记住所有歌词的歌曲。
Remus swallowed, and raised his voice louder, standing up and approaching the bars, Remus吞咽了一下，提高了声音，站起来走近铁栏杆，
“And my time was running wild, a million dead end streets, and…” A bit more movement now, a few of the younger ones were sitting up, peering over at him, “Every time I thought I’d got it made, it seemed the taste was not so sweet…” “我的时间在狂奔，数百万条死胡同，和……”现在更多的骚动了，一些年轻人坐了起来，朝他那边张望，“每次我以为自己成功了，似乎味道并不那么甜……”
A few sniggers. Someone whispered, “He’s finally lost it.” 一些窃笑声。有人低声说，“他终于疯了。”
“So I turned myself to face me…” Remus shut his eyes and bellowed, rolling his forehead against the cold bars, “Though I’d never caught a glimpse, of how the others must see the faker--” “于是我转身面对自己……”Remus闭上眼睛大声喊道，把额头靠在冰冷的铁栏杆上，“尽管我从未瞥见别人如何看待骗子——”
“Silence!” Gaius’s sharp voice rang out. “安静！”Gaius尖锐的声音响起。
“I’m much too fast to take that test…” “我太快了，无法接受那个考验……”
“SILENCE!” “安静！”
Remus tipped his head back and took a deep breath, Remus仰起头，深吸了一口气，
“CH CH CHANGES! TURN AND FACE THE STRANGE CH CH CHA-ANGES!” “变化！转身面对奇怪的变化！”
“Remus Lupin!” Gaius was up, striding towards him, one hand raised. “Stop this AT ONCE!” “Remus Lupin！”Gaius站了起来，朝他大步走去，抬起一只手。“立刻停止！”
“DON’T WANNA BE A RICHER MAN…” Remus continued, feeling Gaius’s fierce magical energy filling the space between them, like a tidal wave of hot air rushing over him, drenching him. He squeezed his pocket watch tighter, and drew the magic out of that, too, sucking it into his bones, his very marrow. “不想成为更富有的人……”Remus继续说道，感觉到Gaius的强大魔法能量充满了他们之间的空间，就像一股热浪冲过他，浸透了他。他更紧地握住怀表，从中也吸取了魔法，吸入他的骨髓，直达骨髓。
Remus opened his eyes, and the bars of his cell vanished like smoke. Grinning, he stepped forward, crossing the threshold into the crypt. He was free. Remus睁开眼睛，他的牢房栏杆像烟雾一样消失了。他咧嘴一笑，迈步向前，跨过门槛进入地下室。他自由了。
“Time may change me…” he half-sang, half laughed at Gaius, who stood before him, gobsmacked, “时间可能会改变我……”他半唱半笑地对着站在他面前的Gaius说道，Gaius目瞪口呆，
“Get back! Livia! Castor! Help me--” “退后！Livia！Castor！帮我——”
“Shut up, Gaius.” Remus raised his hand, barely thinking about it, just letting the magic do the work. Gaius was silenced. His mouth opened and closed a few times, eyes wide with terror. Remus felt a surge of pleasure at this. Yes! Fear me. “Good boy,” he smirked. “Now, in you pop…” “闭嘴，Gaius。”Remus抬起手，几乎没有多想，只是让魔法发挥作用。Gaius被静音了。他的嘴巴开合了几次，眼中充满恐惧。Remus感到一阵快感。是的！害怕我吧。“乖孩子，”他冷笑道。“现在，你进去……”
He stood aside and pushed Gaius forcefully into the cell, before snapping his fingers so that the bars reappeared at once. Gaius found his voice and roared, furious, 他站到一旁，用力把Gaius推进牢房，然后打了个响指，栏杆立刻重新出现。Gaius找回了声音，愤怒地咆哮，
“Let me out!” “放我出去！”
Remus laughed. He was about to turn, to address the rest of the pack - they were all murmuring now, various degrees of nervousness and excitement. He felt a hand on his shoulder. Livia appeared on his left, Castor to his right. They were both smiling, pride gleaming in their eyes. Remus笑了。他正要转身，对剩下的狼群讲话——他们现在都在低声议论，带着不同程度的紧张和兴奋。他感觉到肩上有一只手。Livia出现在他的左边，Castor在他的右边。他们都在微笑，眼中闪耀着自豪。
“My brother,” Livia whispered, “At last! Father will be so proud.” “我的兄弟，”Livia低声说，“终于！父亲会很骄傲的。”

 

Chapter 160: The War: Foot Soldiers 

I count the corpses on my left,

I find I’m not so tidy.

So I’d better get away, better make it today

I’ve cut twenty-three down since friday.

But I can’t control it.

My face is drawn, my instinct still emotes it.

 

 

The hot swell of power in Remus’s body did not dissipate as quickly as it had before - perhaps simply because it was always there - only now he knew how to tune into it. Or maybe it was a defence mechanism, because instinct told him what was coming next. Remus体内那股炙热的力量并没有像以前那样迅速消散——也许仅仅是因为它一直存在——只是现在他知道如何调动它了。或者这是一种防御机制，因为本能告诉他接下来会发生什么。

Everyone in the crypt could feel it. A few of them stood up anxiously. Livia closed her eyes and sighed with pleasure. 地下室里的每个人都能感觉到。有几个人焦虑地站了起来。Livia闭上眼睛，愉快地叹了口气。

The heavy, swift footsteps echoed through from the church above. Adrenaline flooded Remus’s body as the concrete slab covering the entrance of the crypt was pushed aside. 沉重而迅速的脚步声从上面的教堂传来。当覆盖地下室入口的水泥板被推开时，肾上腺素涌入Remus的身体。

Greyback descended. He looked different from before. He was not on the defensive now. He was smiling, his posture and scent welcoming. Amiable. Greyback走了下来。他看起来与之前不同。他现在不再防御。他在微笑，姿态和气味都很友好。和蔼可亲。

Remus’s heart skipped a beat. Remus的心跳漏了一拍。

Greyback smiled, his eyes dark and secretive as the forest. Greyback微笑着，他的眼睛黑暗而神秘，如森林一般。

“Remus Lupin,” he said. “I think it's time for a chat.” “Remus Lupin，”他说。“我认为是时候聊聊了。”

Remus nodded, awestruck. Remus点了点头，满怀敬畏。

Greyback nodded too, still smiling, then turned and began to climb the stairs again. Remus followed without even glancing back. Finally, finally, this was his chance. To do what, he didn’t know yet. All Remus knew in that moment was that his father had come for him, and he was elated. Greyback也点了点头，仍然微笑着，然后转身再次开始爬楼梯。Remus跟在后面，甚至没有回头看一眼。终于，终于，这是他的机会。做什么，他还不知道。在那一刻，Remus只知道他的父亲来找他了，他欣喜若狂。

The air grew fresher and cleaner as they surfaced in the ruined church, and Remus breathed in deeply, closing his eyes. It was close to evening; cool and quiet. Under the dimly lit clouds the forest around them was transforming from day to night, the nocturnal creatures yawning and stretching and creeping out of their holes and tunnels. 当他们浮出废墟教堂时，空气变得更新鲜、更干净，Remus深吸一口气，闭上眼睛。那时接近黄昏；凉爽而宁静。在昏暗的云层下，周围的森林正从白天向夜晚转变，夜行生物在打呵欠、伸展并从它们的洞穴和隧道中爬出来。

Greyback led Remus up the aisle of the church, through to the arched exit, and they walked - not very far - through the slender beech saplings, past sturdy English oaks, down a narrow hidden pathway which led to a kind of cave at the base of a hill. A den. Greyback带领Remus走过教堂的过道，穿过拱形出口，他们走过纤细的山毛榉树苗，经过坚固的英国橡树，沿着一条狭窄的隐秘小路，来到山脚下的一个洞穴。一个窝巢。

Without looking back, Greyback entered, stooping only slightly at the entrance before straightening up as the mouth of the den opened up wider and higher than Remus could have anticipated from the outside. He followed, because there was nothing else to do. Greyback没有回头，进入了洞口，在入口处稍微弯腰，然后在洞口比Remus从外面预料的更宽更高时直起身来。他跟着进去，因为别无选择。

Inside it smelled like home. Earth and forest and meat and wolf. 里面闻起来像家。泥土、森林、肉和狼的气味。

Though there was no natural light source, as soon as Greyback entered a series of torches along the walls of the den lit themselves, creating a cosy, welcoming space. There was even a fire with a pewter cauldron hung over it brimming with something that smelled thick and savoury. A wooden table beside the fireplace was laden with food of all kinds – freshly killed and skinned game, bowls of nuts and berries, mushrooms, nettles and bread. 尽管没有自然光源，但当Greyback进入时，洞穴墙上的一系列火炬自动点亮，营造出一个温馨、欢迎的空间。甚至有一个火堆，上面挂着一个满是浓香食物的锡制锅。壁炉旁边的木桌上摆满了各种食物——新鲜宰杀和剥皮的猎物、一碗碗坚果和浆果、蘑菇、荨麻和面包。

The sides of the cave had been carved out into shelves and hollows full of books and scrolls. There were a few wooden stools scattered about, and Greyback gestured that Remus be seated. 洞穴的侧面被刻成了书架和凹槽，里面装满了书籍和卷轴。四周散落着几张木凳，Greyback示意Remus坐下。

Remus sat, staring about. Further back, hidden in shadows, he could smell a bed - or at least the place Greyback slept. Remus坐下，四处张望。在更远的地方，隐藏在阴影中的，他能闻到一张床——或者至少是Greyback睡觉的地方。

More distracting, though, was the smell of the stew. Remus had taken most of his meals cold over the past week and a half in the dark. The delicious smell of a hot meal threatened to overwhelm him. 更让人分心的是炖菜的味道。在过去的一个半星期里，Remus大部分时间都在黑暗中吃冷餐。热饭的美味气味威胁要淹没他。

He watched his captor take a porcelain bowl from a shelf and ladle a small portion of stew from the cauldron, then pick up a spoon and carry it over to him. Greyback handed him the bowl and Remus took it, still unable to take his eyes off Greyback. 他看着他的俘虏从架子上拿起一个瓷碗，从锅里舀了一小部分炖菜，然后拿起勺子，递给他。Greyback把碗递给他，Remus接过碗，仍然无法把眼睛从Greyback身上移开。

His shape filled the entryway, hard, muscular and unmoving. His coarse dark hair was pulled back in a knot and his yellow eyes bore down on Remus, both curious and challenging at the same time. 他的身形填满了入口，坚硬、肌肉发达、一动不动。他粗糙的黑发扎成一个结，他的黄眼睛盯着Remus，既好奇又充满挑战。

Despite his larger than life demeanour, there was also a quietness about him that Remus had only seen in wild animals. A still silence which promised something more sinister, like a spring-loaded trap. 尽管他的举止显得与众不同，但他身上也有一种静谧，这种静谧Remus只在野生动物身上见过。这种静谧预示着更险恶的东西，就像一个装有弹簧的陷阱。

Greyback took a seat opposite Remus, hands on his knees, and nodded at the bowl of stew warming Remus’s hands. Greyback坐在Remus对面，双手放在膝盖上，点头示意Remus手中的炖菜碗。

“Eat.” He said. “吃。”他说。

Without hesitation - Remus did not yet know if he was following orders because he had to, or because he wanted to - he scooped up some stew and put the spoon in his mouth. He could have cried. It was the most delicious thing he had ever tasted, hot and full of flavour – some kind of dark meat and rich onion. He chewed, as instructed, before swallowing hard. 毫不犹豫地——Remus还不知道自己是因为不得不服从命令，还是因为想要服从——他舀了一些炖菜，放进嘴里。他几乎要哭了。这是他吃过的最美味的东西，热腾腾的，充满了味道——某种深色的肉和浓郁的洋葱。他按照指示咀嚼，然后艰难地吞咽。

Greyback licked his sharp pointed teeth, “Good cub.” Greyback舔了舔他锋利的尖牙，“好崽子。”

Remus ignored him, and continued to eat, suddenly starving hungry. A poem he had once read popped into his head, like a warning: Remus无视他，继续吃饭，突然觉得饿得发慌。他曾经读过的一首诗突然浮现在脑海中，像是一个警告：

Though the goblins cuffed and caught her,

Coaxed and fought her,

Bullied and besought her,

Scratched her, pinched her black as ink,

Kicked and knocked her,

Mauled and mocked her,

Lizzie uttered not a word;

Would not open lip from lip

Lest they should cram a mouthful in.

Of course, that was goblins. You mustn't eat food given to you by fairies, or goblins - there was nothing he’d read about werewolves. But then, what had he ever managed to learn about werewolves?  

当然，那是妖精。你绝对不能吃妖精或妖精给你的食物——他没有读到关于狼人食物的任何事宜。但他关于狼人究竟学到了什么呢？

 

Greyback watched him a while longer, as though they were sitting down to supper together; old friends. He waited until Remus had almost finished eating to speak.  

Greyback多看了他一会儿，好像他们正一起吃晚饭；老朋友般。他等到Remus几乎吃完才开口。

 

“Picked on Gaius in the end, eh? Interesting, that. I thought perhaps Castor.”  

“最后挑了Gaius，是吧？有趣。我原以为是Castor。”

 

“He was being cruel.” Remus answered.  

“他很残忍。”Remus回答。

 

“He’s a good cub. Beautiful wolf; powerful. But he has a few things to learn about leadership, that I’ll grant you. What do you think of my other children, eh?”  

“他是个好小狼。美丽的狼；强大。但他在领导力方面还有些需要学习的地方，我会承认的。你觉得我的其他孩子怎么样？”

 

Remus finished eating. He swallowed, and sucked on the spoon thoughtfully, before setting it back in the empty bowl. He looked Greyback in the eye.  

Remus吃完了。他吞下食物，沉思地吮吸着勺子，然后把它放回空碗里。他直视着Greyback的眼睛。

 

“I feel sorry for them.”  

“我为他们感到可怜。”

 

“Sorry?”  

“可怜？”

 

“For the way they live. There’s no dignity in it.”  

“因为他们的生活方式。没有尊严。”

 

Greyback’s eyes gleamed.  

Greyback的眼睛闪闪发光。

 

“Dignity. What a delightful creature you are, Remus Lupin. Yes, dignity. That’s exactly the word. Exactly.” Greyback was stroking his beard, thoughtfully. “It is a temporary situation, of course. When this war is won--”  

“尊严。你真是个可爱的生物，Remus Lupin。是的，尊严。正是这个词。完全正确。”Greyback边抚摸着自己的胡子边沉思道。“当然，这只是暂时的。当这场战争赢了——”

 

“When this war is won,” Remus said, steadily, “Werewolves will be more hated and feared than ever before. Because of what you have done. Because of your crimes.”  

“当这场战争赢了，”Remus稳稳地说，“狼人将比以前更被憎恨和恐惧。因为你所做的一切。因为你的罪行。”

 

Greyback tossed back his head and laughed, showing long yellow teeth,  

Greyback仰头大笑，露出长长的黄牙，

 

“Truly delightful, cub. I worried that so long in that cell might have softened you, but…”  

“真是令人愉快，小狼。我担心在那个牢房里待这么久会让你变得软弱，但……”

 

Greyback raised a bushy eyebrow, and Remus felt an unpleasant wriggling inside his brain, as though someone was swirling their fingers through his thoughts. He screwed up his face, and Greyback gave a low chuckle deep in his throat, “No. Still unbroken. My good, strong cub.”  

Greyback扬起浓密的眉毛，Remus感觉到脑海里有一种不愉快的扭动，好像有人在搅动他的思绪。他皱起脸，Greyback在喉咙深处发出低沉的笑声，“不。依然未被打破。我好而强壮的小狼。”

 

Remus stared at him. The wriggling sensation stopped.  

Remus盯着他。那种扭动的感觉停止了。

 

“You mean,” he breathed, “You didn’t want to break me?”  

“你是说，”他喘息着，“你不想打破我？”

 

“Of course not.” Greyback spat, scornfully, “Is that what you think? Are these the vile lies spread about me? Why would a father wish harm upon his children?”  

“当然不是。”Greyback轻蔑地吐出唇，“这是你所想的？这些都是关于我的恶意谎言？父亲为什么要对他的孩子们施加伤害？”

 

Remus cocked his head,  

Remus歪着头，

 

“You tell me. Why would you attack a five year old? Why have me locked up?”  

“你告诉我。你为什么要攻击一个五岁的小孩？为什么把我关起来？”

 

“Trivia,” Greyback waved a long-nailed hand dismissively, “These are not the questions you want answers to, do not pretend.”  

“琐事，”Greyback挥了挥他那长长的指甲，“这些不是你想要答案的问题，不要假装。”

 

“How do you know what I want?!” Remus felt his temper rising, and struggled to keep it under control. He tried to hang on to the feeling of power he’d taken from Gaius, to soak up the magic he could feel in the earthen walls of the den.  

“你怎么知道我想要什么？！”Remus感到愤怒上升，努力控制自己。他试图抓住从Gaius那里获得的力量，吸收他能在洞穴泥土墙壁中感受到的魔力。

 

“I know everything about you, Remus Lupin.” He looked at him with razor sharp eyes once more, and Remus felt that unpleasant shuffling through his thoughts.  

“我知道你的一切，Remus Lupin。”他再次用锐利的眼睛看着他，Remus感觉到脑海中那种不愉快的搅动。

 

“No, that’s not fair.” Remus shook his head, trying to build a wall up against Greyback. “You’re using legilimency!”  

“不，这不公平。”Remus摇头，试图在Greyback面前建立一堵墙。“你在使用心灵感应！”

 

“Pah. A wizard trick. Wolves do not read minds. Wolves see souls.”  

“啧，魔法师的把戏。狼不会读心。狼看见的是灵魂。”

 

It sounded like the same thing to Remus. Greyback’s lips curled into a wicked smile once more,  

对Remus来说，这听起来像是一样的东西。Greyback的嘴唇再次露出邪恶的笑容，

 

“No, Remus Lupin. It isn’t the same. One can change one’s mind, after all. Remus Lupin might sympathise with his packmates one day, and revile them the next. That is the mind. But Remus Lupin’s soul…”  

“不，Remus Lupin。这并不相同。毕竟，人可以改变主意。Remus Lupin可能会同情他的队友，有一天又会厌恶他们。这是思维。但Remus Lupin的灵魂……”

 

Greyback closed his eyes and inhaled, as if Remus smelled particularly delicious.  

Greyback闭上了眼睛，吸气，好像Remus的气味特别美味。

 

“Stop it!”  

“停下！”

 

“Make me.”  

“来试试。”

 

Remus tried. He tried very, very hard, forcing the magic within him back out, through his eyes, through his thoughts. It seemed to work. His mind calmed, and Greyback leaned back, looking pleased. Remus was so confused now - he didn’t want to please Greyback, not ever.  

Remus试了。他非常非常努力地试图把体内的魔力挤出来，通过眼睛，通过思绪。似乎有效。他的思绪平静了下来，Greyback向后靠着，看起来很满意。Remus现在非常困惑——他不想取悦Greyback，绝对不想。

 

“It's perfectly all right to hate me, you know.” Greyback said, stretching his arms out, rolling his shoulders as though he was preparing for bed - or for a fight, “It is natural to resent one's father.”  

“你知道，恨我完全没问题。”Greyback说，伸展双臂，转动肩膀，好像他在准备上床睡觉——或者打架，“憎恨自己的父亲是自然的。”

 

You’re not my father. Remus thought, in the part of his brain where he still felt like himself, I’ve never had a father, and I’ve never needed one.  

你不是我的父亲。Remus在他仍感到自己的脑海部分里想着，我从未有过父亲，也从未需要过。

 

“Answer my questions.” Remus said, as forcefully as he could manage, “If you care about me so much… like a… like a father, then why turn me?! Why hunt me down for years, then stick me in a cage the second I show up?!”  

“回答我的问题。”Remus尽可能强硬地说，“如果你这么关心我……像一个……像父亲一样，那为什么要把我变成狼人？！

 

为什么要追捕我多年，然后在我出现的瞬间把我关进牢笼？！”

 

Greyback was laughing at him again, rows and rows of teeth, long red tongue.  

Greyback再次对他大笑，露出一排排的牙齿，长长的红舌头。

 

“You can thank Lyall Lupin for your transformation.”  

“你可以感谢Lyall Lupin的变形。”

 

“Right.” Remus pulled a face, “Awfully human, isn’t it?! Revenge?”  

“对。”Remus做了个鬼脸，“非常人性化，不是吗？！报复？”

 

“Self-preservation.” Greyback countered, scratching behind his ear amusedly. “Lyall had ideas about how my family should be treated. Uneducated ideas. He needed to learn.”  

“自我保护。”Greyback反驳道，带着玩味地挠了挠耳朵。“Lyall对我家族应该如何对待有自己的看法。未经教育的看法。他需要学习。”

 

“Then why not attack him --”  

“那为什么不攻击他——”

 

“Because he was weak.” Greyback hissed, “I could smell it on him. No backbone at all, a hypocrite. And I was proved right. A better man would not have abandoned his pup and his bitch. Though perhaps I ought to thank him. He destroyed himself before any of that weakness could creep into you.” He licked his lips, “It’s become my motto. Get ‘em young, grow ‘em strong.”  

“因为他很弱。”Greyback嘶嘶地说道，“我能从他身上闻到。没有一点骨气，伪君子。我被证明是对的。一个更好的人不会抛弃他的幼崽和母狼。虽然也许我应该感谢他。他在那些弱点进入你之前自毁了。”他舔了舔嘴唇，“这已成为我的座右铭。让他们年轻，培养他们强大。”

 

Remus felt like throwing up. He hated Greyback so fiercely it was as if his insides had turned to bile.  

Remus感觉要呕吐了。他对Greyback的仇恨如此强烈，好像他的内脏已经变成了胆汁。

 

“If you believe that,” he carried on, stoically, mouth full of saliva making his words thick and sloppy, “Then why wait so long to find me? You could have snatched me out of the Home any time.”  

“如果你相信这些，”他继续道，嘴里满是唾液，使得他说话显得沉重而含糊，“那为什么要等这么久才找到我？你随时都可以把我从孤儿院里抢出来。”

 

“I considered it,” Greyback nodded, tilting his head thoughtfully, “I took Livia when she was barely speaking. Castor and Gaius when they were tots. But you were a different case. Dumbledore had his paws all over you before Lyall was even in the ground. I knew what the old codger was thinking - his own pet werewolf; his own tamed beast, all trained up and given a head full of wizard tricks and wizard lies. An educated monster.” He licked his lips lasciviously, “I knew all of this, and I thought… why not? Let the cub come to me when the time was right, let him learn all he can learn of the wizarding world, and we shall see, then, which side wins out.”  

“我考虑过，”Greyback点了点头，若有所思地歪着头，“我带走了Livia，当她还只是个小孩子时。带走了Castor和Gaius，当他们还是婴儿时。但你是个不同的情况。在Lyall还没入土之前，Dumbledore就已经把手伸向了你。我知道那老家伙在想什么——他自己的宠狼；他自己驯化的野兽，全都训练好了，脑袋里装满了巫师的把戏和谎言。一个受过教育的怪物。”他淫荡地舔了舔嘴唇，“我知道这一切，所以我想……为什么不呢？让小狼在时机成熟时来找我，让他学习尽可能多的巫师世界的知识，我们就看看，到底哪一方会胜出。”

 

“Side? You mean… you or Dumbledore?”  

“哪一方？你是说……你还是Dumbledore？”

 

“Nature or nurture.” Greyback sniggered. Remus recoiled, disgusted,  

“天性还是教养。”Greyback咯咯笑道。Remus厌恶地缩回身，

 

“So I’m an experiment?!”  

“所以我是个实验品？！”

 

“In a manner of speaking.”  

“可以这么说。”

 

Remus finally tore his eyes away, unable to stare into Greyback’s laser beam gaze any longer. His eyes caught on the bookcase to his right. They were all classics. The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, The Island of Doctor Moreau, The Count of Monte Cristo.  

Remus终于移开了目光，无法再直视Greyback的激光般的目光。他的目光落在右边的书架上。全是经典书籍。《化身博士》、《莫罗博士的岛》、《基督山伯爵》。

 

“And the cage?” He asked, shakily, staring at the gold lettering on each leatherbound book. “Was that part of the experiment?”  

“那笼子呢？”他颤抖着问，盯着每本皮革封面的金色字母。“那是实验的一部分吗？”

 

“It was clear that you had grown too reliant on the tricks Dumbledore taught you.” Greyback said, as if it was all perfectly reasonable, “You were confined only as long as was necessary, to ensure that your true gifts were strong enough to shine through. And they were, cub. Look at you now; just blistering with power.”  

“很明显，你对Dumbledore教给你的把戏过于依赖了。”Greyback说道，就像这完全合理一样，“你只被限制了必要的时间，以确保你真正的天赋足够强大，能够显现出来。现在你就是了，小狼。看看你现在；充满了力量。”

 

Remus looked up at him, finally, meeting those wolfish yellow eyes once more. Fine, then. If he was so powerful, he could use it. Burning with bitter, acid hatred, Remus pushed out once more, focussing as sharply as he could on Greyback’s body.  

Remus终于抬头看向他，再次对上了那双狼一般的黄色眼睛。好吧。如果他这么强大，他可以利用它。充满苦涩和酸味的仇恨，Remus再次发力，尽可能集中地攻击Greyback的身体。

 

Make him weak, make him hurt.  

让他变弱，让他受苦。

 

Greyback straightened his back in his stool, and closed his eyes, grinning as though Remus was caressing him, not firing every foul thing he could. Then the werewolf raised a hand - and Remus saw that it was trembling, very slightly. Still, Greyback was incredibly powerful, and Remus could feel his own magic countered and blocked. Worth a try.  

Greyback在凳子上挺直了背部，闭上了眼睛，露出笑容，好像Remus在抚摸他，而不是发射他能想到的每一个恶毒的东西。然后那只狼人举起了一只手——Remus看到它轻微地颤抖着。不过，Greyback仍然非常强大，Remus感到自己的魔力被抵消和阻挡。这值得一试。

 

“Very good, Remus Lupin,” Greyback said, after a long time, his voice a little more hoarse than it had been. “Very good, cub…” He sighed. “Enough, for tonight, perhaps. We’ll speak again.”  

“非常好，Remus Lupin，”Greyback过了很长时间才说道，他的声音比之前更加嘶哑。“非常好，小狼……”他叹了口气。“今晚就到这里吧。我们还会再谈的。”

 

Remus stood quickly, feeling as if all this time he had been weighted down to the stool; and now the weight was gone.  

Remus迅速站起，感觉就像这段时间他一直被沉重的压力压在凳子上；现在那个重量消失了。

 

“One moment…” Greyback rose as well, and pushed past Remus into the shadowy sleeping chamber behind. He returned seconds later with a large grey fur, and handed it to Remus. “A gift, cub. Welcome to the pack.”  

“一分钟……”Greyback也站起身，推过Remus进入身后的阴暗卧室。他几秒钟后回来，拿着一块大灰色的毛皮，把它递给Remus。“一个礼物，小狼。欢迎加入狼群。”

 

Remus took it, and held it over one arm, cautiously. It was beautiful; the soft fur silver and black under his fingers.  

Remus接过它，小心翼翼地把它搭在一只胳膊上。它很美丽；柔软的毛皮在他指间闪烁着银色和黑

 

色。

 

“I can go?” He asked, glancing at the den mouth, now unguarded and open. He was suddenly nervous.  

“我可以走了吗？”他问，瞥了一眼现在没有守卫和敞开的洞口。他突然感到紧张。

 

“Of course. You know the way back. You are not in the wizard world now; you are free. Go where you please. Return to the pack. Or else… if you prefer to sleep here?” His face turned hungry again, his smile mocking, as he stepped aside and gestured towards his own bed.  

“当然。你知道回去的路。你现在不在魔法世界里；你是自由的。去你想去的地方。回到狼群里。或者……如果你愿意在这里睡觉？”他的脸再次变得贪婪，笑容嘲弄着，一边侧身让开，指向自己的床。

 

Remus’s stomach turned again, and he backed out of the den as quickly as he could.  

Remus的胃再次翻腾，他尽可能快地退回洞穴外。

 

He stood outside by himself for a long time. The thought of apparating - of getting out of there as fast as he possibly could; going home to Sirius and London and his friends - occurred only fleetingly.  

他在外面独自站了很久。想要瞬间移动——尽可能快地离开这里；回到Sirius、伦敦和他的朋友们身边的念头只是短暂地闪过。

 

Night had fallen in the forest. Remus breathed in the lovely air, and looked up at the fine lights in the sky. Owls swooped overhead, on the hunt for prey. Foxes crept through the underbrush, moles ploughed through the soil below his feet. He felt as much a part of this place as they were. A natural creature, coming to life.  

森林中已然夜幕降临。Remus吸了口宜人的空气，仰望着天空中明亮的星辰。猫头鹰在头顶盘旋，寻找猎物。狐狸在灌木丛中悄悄移动，鼹鼠在脚下的土壤中翻动。他感觉自己与这个地方一样融为一体。一个自然的生物，正在复苏。

 

A cool breeze rustled the leaves above him, and he shivered. Without thinking, Remus pulled the fur cloak over his shoulders, wrapping it tight around himself. It felt good, like a second skin. He breathed and exhaled once more, to savour the peace and quiet of being alone. Then he turned away from the den, and returned to his pack.  

一阵凉风掠过他头顶的树叶，他打了个寒战。没有多想，Remus将毛皮斗篷披在肩上，将其紧紧裹住。这感觉很好，就像第二层皮肤。他再次深呼吸，享受独自一人的宁静与安详。然后他转身离开洞穴，回到了他的狼群。

* * *

Things changed, after that, of course. By the time Remus returned to the pack that evening he already had a new place in the hierarchy. Gaius had been freed from his prison, and he did not meet Remus’s eyes; did not challenge him, just slunk away to his corner. Livia made it clear that Remus now outranked Gaius, by approaching first and stroking his new furs, purring with joy,  

当然，事情在之后发生了变化。当Remus那天晚上回到狼群时，他已经在等级中获得了一个新的位置。Gaius已被从囚禁中释放，他没有看Remus的眼睛；没有挑战他，只是溜到角落里。Livia明确表示Remus现在比Gaius地位更高，她首先走上前，抚摸他的新毛皮，满怀喜悦地咕哝着，

 

“Beautiful,” she said, “beautiful.”  

“美丽的，”她说，“美丽的。”

 

And when it came time to settle in and sleep, Remus had his pick of anywhere he liked on the crypt floor. This had to be a carefully thought through decision; sleep beside Livia, the alpha bitch, and what was that saying? It would certainly tell Gaius exactly where he stood. It’s what Moody would suggest, if Moody had half a clue how to conduct himself in such a situation.  

当该安顿下来睡觉的时候，Remus可以自由选择任何他喜欢的地方在地窖的地板上。这必须是经过仔细考虑的决定；在Livia，母狼首领身边睡觉，那句话是什么来着？这肯定会告诉Gaius他的位置。如果Moody对这种情况有一半的了解的话，这也是Moody的建议。

 

He had reservations about Castor too. For one thing, instinct told him to side with the handsome young man - and he knew that it wasn’t entirely to do with the fact that Castor had helped him. Remus was used to the scent now, but that didn’t make him any less attracted. For another thing, Castor was clearly a dissenter. Siding with him might give rise to suspicion from other members of the pack.  

他对Castor也有保留。首先，直觉告诉他要站在那个英俊年轻人的一边——他知道这并不完全是因为Castor曾经帮助过他。Remus现在已经习惯了这个气味，但这并没有让他减少吸引力。另一方面，Castor显然是一个异议者。与他站在一起可能会引起狼群其他成员的怀疑。

 

But he was tired and sleepy, and he had made so many life altering decisions already. So he chose Castor, who felt safe at least. Remus would have to beg forgiveness later.  

但他疲倦而困倦，已经做出了许多改变生活的决定。所以他选择了Castor，至少感觉安全。Remus以后还得请求原谅。

 

In the days that followed, Remus got to know the pack not only by scent and as fellow outcasts - but as individual people. Plenty of them, like Jeremy, were recent converts. Teenage runaways, disowned children of shamed wizarding families. All of them had difficult stories of hunger and suffering and terrible abuse.  

在接下来的日子里，Remus不仅通过气味和作为同类的弃儿来认识狼群——还认识了他们作为个体的人。其中很多人，如Jeremy，是最近的转变者。少年逃亡者，被羞辱的巫师家庭抛弃的孩子们。他们都有着饥饿、痛苦和可怕虐待的艰难故事。

 

For the first time in his life, Remus felt he had had a privileged childhood. So what if Matron was a stone-hearted old cow who hated children. He’d had a roof over his head.  

这是他人生中的第一次，Remus感到自己有过一个优越的童年。Matron是一个石心的老太婆，讨厌孩子又怎样。他有个遮风挡雨的地方。

 

Some of them were kind and funny, some of them were silly and immature. Some of them were sad and shy. Every day Remus grew more desperate to help them; to find a better place and a better life for each and every one.  

他们中的一些人友善而幽默，一些人则愚蠢而幼稚。还有一些人悲伤而害羞。每天Remus变得更加急切地想帮助他们；为每一个人找到一个更好的地方和更好的生活。

 

But of course they didn’t all have the same story. Some of them were not with Greyback for protection or shelter - some of them really were there for revenge. They believed in their father’s philosophy wholeheartedly; murder for them was not a crime, only the nature of a predator. The world owed them blood, and they were going to take it.  

但当然，他们并不是所有人都有相同的故事。有人并不是为了保护或庇护而与Greyback在一起——有人确实是为了复仇。他们全心全意地相信他们父亲的哲学；对他们来说，谋杀不是罪行，只是捕食者的本性。世界欠他们血，他们要夺取它。

 

“I believed it too.” Castor said, the next morning. He had offered to show Remus their hunting trails in the forest. They caught rabbits and other game using instinct and magic. “I believed everything he said, for a long time. He's the only teacher I ever had.”  

“我也相信过。”Castor说，第二天早上。他曾提议带Remus去森林中展示他们的狩猎路径。他们用直觉和魔法捕捉兔子和其他猎物。“我很长一段时间都相信他说的一切。他是我唯一的老师。”

 

“But you changed your mind?” Remus asked, half hoping, because he still wasn’t quite sure about Castor’s motivations.  

“但你改变了主意？”Remus问，半是希望，因为他仍然不太确定Castor的动机。

 

“Yes.” Castor replied, not noticing Remus’s trepidation. “It was a slow process.”  

“是的。”Castor回答道，没有注意到Remus的忧虑。“这是一个缓慢的过程。”

 

“What triggered it?” Remus was puffing a bit to keep up with Castor, who was lithe and muscular, the epitome of good health, despite his scars.  

“是什么触发了这一点？”Remus有些气喘吁吁地问，试图跟上Castor，尽管他有伤疤，但依然身姿矫健，健康的化身。

 

“No one thing in particular,” Castor said, stopping still and looking around, as though he’d caught a scent. He seemed to think better of it, and carried on walking, head held high, eyes sharp. He was so natural and relaxed in himself. Remus didn’t think he could ever be like that. It vaguely made him think of Sirius - except if course Castor talked a lot less. You had to really drag answers out of him.  

“没有特别的事情，”Castor说，停下来环顾四周，仿佛嗅到了什么气味。他似乎觉得这样不好，又继续走，昂首阔步，目光锐利。他自己显得如此自然和放松。Remus觉得自己永远也不能像他那样。这让他隐约想起了Sirius——当然，Castor话要少得多。你得真正费劲去挖他的答案。

 

“Nothing in particular?” Remus panted, “Something must have--"  

“没有特别的事情？”Remus气喘吁吁地问，“一定有什么……”

 

“Books.” Castor said, striding ahead, on the trail of something.  

“书籍。”Castor说，迈着大步走在某个东西的踪迹上。

 

“Books?!”  

“书籍？！”

 

“Father encourages us to educate ourselves. To develop independent thoughts. And I did. It is the way of nature, to rebel against one’s father.”  

“父亲鼓励我们自我教育，发展独立的思想。而我做到了。这是自然的方式，反抗父亲。”

 

That sounded eerily like Greyback. Castor often did that - they all did. They spoke with one voice, and it was always his.  

这听起来非常像Greyback。Castor经常这样——他们都这样。他们用一种声音说话，而这总是他的声音。

 

“But if he encourages that, then why haven’t more of the others--"  

“但如果他鼓励这样，那为什么其他人没有——”

 

“I said that we are encouraged, not forced.” Castor said, a small ironic smile playing on his lips.  

“我说的是我们受到鼓励，而不是强迫。”Castor说，嘴角挂着一丝讽刺的笑容。

 

“Oh.” Remus said. He remembered Livia quoting Plato to him. Being educated didn’t mean you all came to the same conclusions.  

“哦。”Remus说道。他记得Livia曾引用过Plato的言论。受教育并不意味着你们都会得出相同的结论。

 

“I listened to what you said, too.” Castor said, finally. “When I was trapped

 

 by the dryad, in Scotland. I knew you were my enemy, but I did not want to harm you. And then I realised I did not want to harm anybody. I think we can live in peace, away from mankind, as other creatures have learnt to.”  

“我也听了你说的话。”Castor最后说道。“当我在苏格兰被树精困住时。我知道你是我的敌人，但我不想伤害你。然后我意识到我不想伤害任何人。我认为我们可以像其他生物一样，远离人类，和平共处。”

 

“Is that really what you want--?”  

“那真的是你想要的——？”

 

Castor put a hand out quickly, and crouched low. There was a rabbit not five feet away. Remus held his breath and watched as Castor crept forward slowly, whispering a calming incantation. When he reached the creature, it hopped dozily into his lap. He stroked it softly for a moment, still whispering. Then he broke its neck.  

Castor迅速伸出手，蹲下身子。距离五英尺处有只兔子。Remus屏住呼吸，看着Castor缓慢地向前爬行，低声念着安抚咒语。当他到达那只生物时，它迷迷糊糊地跳到他的膝盖上。他轻轻抚摸了一会儿，仍然低语。然后他折断了兔子的脖子。

 

Remus wanted to be disgusted, to feel sorry for the rabbit. But he could already smell the blood and his stomach growled. Castor smiled at him, greyish eyes lighting up. He held out the rabbit, blood sliding down his wrist,  

Remus想要感到厌恶，对兔子感到难过。但他已经闻到了血腥味，胃也开始咕咕叫。Castor对他微笑，灰色的眼睛亮了起来。他伸出兔子，血沿着他的手腕滑落，

 

“For you, Remus Lupin.”  

“给你，Remus Lupin。”

 

Remus was flattered.  

Remus感到受宠若惊。

 

Jeremy showed Remus some of the pack’s ‘gathering’ techniques, which basically amounted to theft. There were towns around the outskirts of the forest, and all they needed to do was apparate there and find an empty house, which could be done by scent.  

Jeremy向Remus展示了狼群的一些“集会”技巧，这基本上是盗窃。在森林的边缘有一些城镇，他们只需要瞬间移动到那里，找到一个空房子，这可以通过气味来完成。

 

They were standing in the bedroom of one such house when Jeremy spilled the whole truth about the pack’s part in the war.  

他们站在这样一座房子的卧室里，Jeremy才透露了狼群在战争中的全部真相。

 

If Remus hadn't been bothered by a rabbit being unceremoniously slaughtered in front of him, then burgling a house wasn’t going to curl his hair. In fact, it brought back a few fond memories of his criminal youth. Still, he didn’t really participate. Just nosed through the clothes in the wardrobe while Jeremy searched for jewellery in the dresser.  

如果Remus对兔子在他面前被无礼地屠杀没有感到困扰，那么抢劫一座房子也不会让他毛发倒竖。事实上，这还让他回忆起了自己犯罪青春时期的几段美好时光。尽管如此，他并没有真正参与。只是翻阅衣柜里的衣物，而Jeremy则在抽屉里寻找珠宝。

 

“The way I see it,” Jeremy said cheerfully, “Greyback might be a bit full of himself, bit high and mighty. But he’s done a lot for me, and plenty others. He cares more than anyone else has since I got this bloody bite.”  

“在我看来，”Jeremy愉快地说，“Greyback可能有点自命不凡，觉得自己高高在上。但他对我和其他人做了很多事。他比自从我被咬到这鬼东西以来，任何人都更关心我。”

 

“Have you done any of this self-educating stuff?” Remus asked, casually.  

“你做过这些自我教育的事吗？”Remus随意地问。

 

“Not for me.” Jeremy said, “Never much into reading. Preferred quidditch.”  

“对我来说没有。”Jeremy说，“从不喜欢阅读。更喜欢魁地奇。”

 

“Hm.”  

“嗯。”

 

“Ugh, pearls.” Jeremy tutted, lifting a knot of them out of a green velvet box. “Hate the way they feel in your hands. My mother always wore them - pureblood heirloom.”  

“呃，珍珠。”Jeremy嘟囔道，从一个绿色天鹅绒的盒子里拿出一串。“讨厌它们在手中的感觉。我的母亲总是戴着它们——纯血遗产。”

 

“You’re a pureblood?” Renus turned around, mildly surprised.  

“你是纯血？”Remus转过身，略显惊讶。

 

“Nah, mother is. Dad’s a mix. Doesn’t mean much anymore. I’m worse to them than a mudblood, now. Bastards.” He slammed the drawer shut angrily. “That's one of the things Greyback’s right about. They deserve what they’re getting.”  

“不是，我的母亲是。爸爸是混血。现在没什么意义了。我现在对他们来说比mudblood还糟糕。混蛋。”他愤怒地把抽屉摔上。“这是Greyback说对的一件事。他们得到的都是他们应得的。”

 

“Who does?”  

“谁得到？”

 

“The purebloods.”  

“纯血们。”

 

“What do you mean?” Remus knew he sounded stupid, but he was genuinely confused. He had always been told that some of Voldemort’s greatest allies were the pureblood houses - that it was the half-bloods and the muggleborns who he targeted.  

“你什么意思？”Remus知道自己听起来很愚蠢，但他真的很困惑。他一直被告知，Voldemort的一些最强大的盟友是纯血家族——是半血和麻瓜出生者才是他的目标。

 

He said as much to Jeremy.  

他对Jeremy说了这些。

 

“Oh, yeah,” Jeremy nodded blithely, “We’ve done one or two of those. But most of the time we’re really a scare tactic to keep the old families in line.”  

“哦，是的，”Jeremy毫不在乎地点点头，“我们做过一两个这样的事。但大多数时候我们真的只是用来吓唬那些老家族，让他们保持在轨道上。”

 

Remus pressed for more information and Jeremy - who had been eager to do anything he could for Remus ever since the Gaius incident - was all too happy to elaborate. Voldemort was using the werewolves as little more than hired muscle. If any of his influential wealthy supporters started questioning him a little bit too much, started having doubts, then all it took was a visit from Fenrir Greyback and a few of his mad, feral acolytes to get everyone back on the same page.  

Remus继续追问更多的信息，而Jeremy——自从Gaius事件以来，一直热衷于为Remus做任何事——非常乐意详细说明。Voldemort将狼人用作雇佣的肌肉。如果他的任何有影响力的富裕支持者开始过多地质疑他，开始有疑虑，那么只需要Fenrir Greyback和他的一些疯狂野性的追随者来拜访，大家就会重新统一意见。

 

“Seen loads of mansions lately,” Jeremy cackled with laughter. He caught the look Remus was giving him. “Oh, what?! I told you, they deserve it. They shouldn’t have gone over to his side in the first place.”  

“最近看到很多大宅子，”Jeremy哈哈大笑。他捕捉到了Remus对他的目光。“哦，怎么了？我告诉你，他们得到了应得的。他们本不该站在他那一边。”

 

“Wait, so you don’t even support Voldemort?!” Remus gaped at him.  

“等等，所以你们甚至不支持Voldemort？！”Remus瞪大了眼睛看着他。

 

“Course not, he’s a right weirdo. Scares the shit out of me, to be honest. But, y’know. I didn’t choose this side, it's just the hand I got dealt.”  

“当然不，他是个正经的怪物。说实话，他把我吓得要死。但你知道的。我没有选择这边，这只是我得到的命运。”

 

“But if you did have a choice, if you--"  

“但如果你有选择的话，如果你——”

 

“There is no choice, Remus Lupin!” Jeremy said fiercely, that voice coming out of his mouth which wasn’t his own. “There is the pack. We can trust no one else. You must get used to it, if you want to be one of us.”  

“没有选择，Remus Lupin！”Jeremy激烈地说，那个声音从他嘴里

And that was as far as he could get with any of them. After a certain point, they all reverted back to the same old script. Greyback was their leader, and even if they did not agree with him on everything, most of them felt indebted to him and trusted him before anything else.  

这就是他与他们关系的极限了。在某个时刻，他们都会回到老套的模式。格雷伯克是他们的首领，即便他们在一些事情上不同意他，大多数人仍然觉得欠他人情，并且在一切之前都信任他。

 

By daylight, Remus was never sure if he could really trust Castor or Jeremy—or any of the others. Even Castor, who was interested in hearing what Remus had to say and who was determined to convince the others to withdraw from the war.  

白天的时候，雷穆斯从未确定自己是否可以真正信任卡斯托尔或杰里米——甚至是其他人。即使是卡斯托尔，虽然他对听雷穆斯说话很感兴趣，并且决心说服其他人退出战争。

 

“It is not an easy thing,” Castor tried to explain. “To realize that our father is wrong, that we must have no part in any wizard affairs, least of all war. It would mean splitting the pack.”  

“这不是一件容易的事，”卡斯托尔试图解释道，“意识到我们的父亲是错的，我们必须不参与任何巫师事务，尤其是战争。这将意味着分裂这个狼群。”

 

“Can you do that?” Remus asked, impressed. Castor gave a small shrug of his shoulders.  

“你能做到吗？”雷穆斯问道，显得很惊讶。卡斯托尔微微耸了耸肩。

 

“Perhaps.”  

“也许吧。”

 

Helpful.  

这点帮助倒是有。

 

Remus expected to see Greyback again, now he had been fully initiated, but the pack father stayed strangely remote. He occasionally summoned Livia, who Remus learnt had been with him the longest—almost all of her thirty years. (Remus was shocked to learn her age—she seemed at once too young and too old.) Otherwise, Remus was left to his own devices.  

雷穆斯原以为在他完全入伙之后，会再次见到格雷伯克，但这位狼群首领却奇怪地保持距离。他偶尔召唤莉维亚，雷穆斯了解到她已经和他待了最长的时间——差不多快三十年了。（雷穆斯对她的年龄感到震惊——她看起来既太年轻又太老。）否则，雷穆斯就被留给了自己。

 

He could have left whenever he liked, that had been made clear to him. But he’d told the others in the pack that he had nowhere else to go, like them. He needed their trust, and for that they needed to be able to relate to him. So he never tried to sneak away and send a message to the Order—he wasn’t even sure if that was possible, but he didn’t try. He knew he might never have this chance again—and after all, it was what Dumbledore had bred him for.  

他可以随时离开，这一点已经明确告知他。但他告诉狼群中的其他人，他和他们一样没有别的去处。他需要他们的信任，而要做到这一点，他们需要能够与他产生共鸣。所以他从未试图偷偷离开并向凤凰社发出消息——他甚至不确定这是否可能，但他没有尝试。他知道自己可能再也没有这个机会了——毕竟，这就是邓布利多培育他的目的。

 

As far as Dumbledore and Moody and Ferox and every other adult who liked pushing Remus around their chess board was concerned, he was exactly where he was supposed to be. And he wasn’t miserable. He was lonely, of course; he longed for Sirius like a missing limb, and he’d have done anything for a shower, a cigarette and a bar of chocolate. But the forest had begun to feel like a place he belonged—the other wolves felt like family. His mission grew clearer with every day, and he knew he couldn’t leave. So he stayed in plain sight at all times, and didn’t speak a word about his friendships and connections back home.  

至于邓布利多、穆迪、费罗克斯和其他那些喜欢在棋盘上推动雷穆斯的成年人，他们认为雷穆斯正好在他应该在的地方。而且他并不痛苦。孤独当然有；他像缺失的四肢一样渴望天狼星，他愿意为了一次淋浴、一支香烟和一块巧克力做任何事。但森林开始感觉像是他归属的地方——其他的狼就像家人一样。他的任务每天变得更加明确，他知道自己不能离开。所以他一直保持在明处，且从未提及自己在家中的友谊和联系。

 

Friendship was different among the werewolves. Pack solidarity was everything, and Remus felt it too—sometimes he thought he would die to protect them, even Gaius. The only feeling that had ever come close to it was when the marauders were in their animagus forms back at Hogwarts—and Remus supposed that made some sense.  

友谊在狼人中是不同的。狼群团结是一切，雷穆斯也感受到了——有时他觉得自己会为了保护他们甚至是盖乌斯而死。唯一接近这种感觉的是当马拉uders们在霍格沃茨时变成了他们的阿尼玛格斯形态——雷穆斯认为这也许有些道理。

 

Sex was different with them, too. Midway through the month, Remus noticed a few pack members pairing off, vanishing into the woods for an hour or so at a time, returning with that all-too-familiar scent. It was obvious what they were all doing, but no one seemed to mind or take much notice. It was just another instinct they all accepted and followed without question.  

性事在他们之间也是不同的。到月中时，雷穆斯注意到几个狼群成员配对消失在树林里，每次一个小时左右，然后带着那熟悉的气味回来。很明显他们在做什么，但没有人似乎在意或多加注意。这只是他们都接受和遵循的另一个本能，没有疑问。

 

“The desire grows stronger as the moon approaches,” Castor explained, as they lay in the crypt one night trying to ignore the quiet gasping and fumbling around them.  

“欲望随着月亮的接近而增强，”卡斯托尔解释道，他们躺在地下室的一个晚上，试图忽视周围安静的喘息和摸索声。

 

“I’d never noticed before,” Remus lied, staring up at the ceiling.  

“我以前从未注意过，”雷穆斯撒谎道，盯着天花板。

 

“If you choose to mate,” Castor whispered, “Choose wisely. They look up to you, they will notice favoritism.”  

“如果你选择交配，”卡斯托尔低声说道，“选择明智。他们仰视你，会注意到偏袒。”

 

“No,” Remus said. “I’m not…I have someone already.”  

“不会，”雷穆斯说道。“我不是……我已经有人了。”

 

“A human?”  

“一个人类？”

 

“Yes.”  

“是的。”

 

“Then you plan to return,” Castor finished. He sounded so sad about it. Remus wanted to turn and apologize, comfort him somehow, but that was dangerous territory and he knew it. The air was already thick with lust, and he didn’t know what he’d do.  

“那么你打算回去，”卡斯托尔说道。他的声音听起来如此悲伤。雷穆斯想转过身去道歉，试图安慰他，但那是危险的领域，他知道这一点。空气中已经弥漫着浓厚的欲望，他不知道自己会怎么做。

 

“I have to, eventually,” Remus said. “But I want to make sure you’re all safe, first.”  

“我必须最终回去，”雷穆斯说道。“但我首先要确保你们都安全。”

 

“We will survive without you, Remus Lupin.” Castor returned, his voice no longer its usual calm steady timbre. "You are not our leader yet."  

“没有你我们也会活下去，雷穆斯·卢平。”卡斯托尔回应道，他的声音不再是平时那种平稳的音调。“你还不是我们的领袖。”

* * *

Chapter 161~165Chapter Summary

161. The War: Blood Moon (2018-08-01)
162. The War: Moony's Story (2018-08-02)
163. The War: Late Spring 1979 (2018-08-15)
164. The War: Summer 1979 (2018-08-16)
165. The War: Dulce et Decorum est (2018-08-22)

Chapter 161: The War: Blood Moon 

Remus had almost spent a full month in Greyback’s pack before he was truly given a reason to leave. He woke late one morning to find himself almost alone. Confused, he sat up, staring around—he’d grown used to having Castor and Jeremy nearby, he felt horribly exposed without their body heat.  

雷穆斯在格雷伯克的狼群里几乎待了一个月才真正有了离开的理由。一天早晨他醒得很晚，发现自己几乎是孤身一人。他坐起来，迷惑地四处张望——他已经习惯了卡斯托尔和杰里米在身边，没有他们的体温，他感到非常暴露。

 

“Father summoned them.” A voice came out of the gloom.  

“父亲召唤了他们。”一个声音从阴暗中传来。

 

Remus raised his palm to create a heat-free flame for light, as Castor had taught him. It was easier than lumos, though not as bright. Gaius stepped out from the shadows of one of the chambers. He stared down at Remus. “Father came this morning. Summoned Castor and Livia. Only them. I suppose Castor is forgiven, now.”  

雷穆斯抬起手掌，像卡斯托尔教他的那样，创造出一个无热火焰来照明。这比咒语“鲁莫斯”容易，但不如它亮。盖乌斯从一个房间的阴影中走出来。他俯视着雷穆斯。“父亲今天早上来了。召唤了卡斯托尔和莉维亚。只有他们。我猜卡斯托尔现在被原谅了。”

 

“Will they be back soon?” Remus asked warily, drawing his cloak around his shoulders protectively.  

“他们会很快回来吗？”雷穆斯警惕地问道，把斗篷紧紧裹在肩上。

 

“I don’t expect so.” Gaius mused. He was fiddling with something shiny, kept glancing down at it, “They’ve gone to meet the Dark Lord.”  

“我不这么认为。”盖乌斯沉思道。他正在摆弄某个闪亮的东西，不时低头看它，“他们去见黑魔王了。”

 

“What?!”  

“什么？！”

 

“It’s almost the moon. He’ll have plans for the pack.”  

“快到满月了。他会为狼群制定计划。”

 

“...plans?” Reality came clanging down on Remus’s head, like glass shattering; like a car crash.  

“……计划？”现实像玻璃破碎一样砰地砸在雷穆斯头上；像一场车祸。

 

“You know,” Gaius said, apparently uninterested in Remus’s crisis of conscience, “I always wondered why father turned three males. I thought perhaps he wished us to learn to lead together; to share the burden of responsibility. But now I realize. He means us to compete.”  

“你知道，”盖乌斯说，显然对雷穆斯的良心危机不感兴趣，“我一直在想为什么父亲会改变三个男性。我曾以为他希望我们一起学会领导；分担责任。但现在我明白了。他是要我们竞争。”

 

“What do you want, Gaius?” Remus stood up, squaring his shoulders to remind Gaius that he was bigger, and stronger, when he wanted to be. “Want me to sing you another song?”  

“你想要什么，盖乌斯？”雷穆斯站起来，挺直肩膀以提醒盖乌斯，当他愿意时，他更高大、更强壮。“想让我再唱一首歌给你听？”

 

Gaius sneered at him, cheeks red. He backed away.  

盖乌斯对他嗤之以鼻，脸颊通红。他退后了。

 

“You will not triumph.” He said. He threw the shiny object down at Remus’s feet before turning to leave, and it made a hard, metal sound. It was Remus’s pocket watch.  

“你不会胜利的。”他说。他把那个闪亮的东西扔在雷穆斯脚下，然后转身离开，它发出了硬邦邦的金属声。那是雷穆斯的怀表。

 

“Oi!” Remus yelled, stooping to grab it up. But Gaius was gone.  

“喂！”雷穆斯喊道，弯腰捡起它。但盖乌斯已经走了。

 

Remus slumped against the wall, running his fingers through his grimy hair. His heart raced, his breathing quickened, and he began to panic. Shit. Shit shit shit.  

雷穆斯靠在墙上，手指穿过他脏兮兮的头发。他的心跳加速，呼吸急促，开始惊慌失措。该死。该死该死该死。

 

Of course they were still working with Voldemort—the war hadn’t stopped simply because Remus was there. He felt stupid and naïve—and worst of all, he felt guilty. He was supposed to be on a bloody mission! But he hadn’t been thinking of the Order, not really—he’d been more concerned about protecting the pack than getting back to his friends; his true family. All this time, Remus had thought of himself as a victim—when really he was the worst kind of traitor.  

当然他们还在与伏地魔合作——战争并没有因为雷穆斯在那儿而停止。他感到自己愚蠢又天真——最糟糕的是，他感到内疚。他本应该是在执行一个该死的任务！但他并没有真正想着凤凰社——他更关心的是保护狼群，而不是回到他的朋友们那里；他的真正家庭。一直以来，雷穆斯都认为自己是个受害者——但实际上他是最糟糕的那种叛徒。

 

He shrugged off his fur cloak. He didn’t want to look like them.  

他脱下了毛皮斗篷。他不想看起来像他们。

 

He badly wanted to see Sirius—after weeks of suppressing it, his longing burst up like a geyser, so that he couldn’t get a grip on it and squash it back down again. Sirius would know what to do—or he’d at least make Remus feel better about everything.  

他非常想见到天狼星——经过几周的压抑，他的渴望像间歇泉一样喷发出来，他无法控制它并把它再压回去。天狼星会知道该怎么做——或者至少会让雷穆斯对一切感觉好一些。

 

Remus looked down at his watch, the only connection he still has to his friends. The gold had lost its luster, and he rubbed it on his filthy trouser leg to see if that helped. Then he opened and closed it a few times, running the pads of his thumbs along the smooth vine leaf engraving. It had stopped working the day he used it to escape his cell; he’d squeezed all the magic out of it like a sponge. Another betrayal.  

雷穆斯低头看着他的怀表，这是他与朋友们唯一的联系。金子已经失去了光泽，他在脏兮兮的裤腿上擦了擦，看看是否有帮助。然后他开合了几次，用拇指的指腹沿着光滑的藤叶雕刻滑动。它在他用它逃离牢房的那天就停止了运作；他把它所有的魔力都像海绵一样挤了出来。又一次背叛。

 

Once he had at least calmed his breathing down (jesus christ what I wouldn’t do for a fag), Remus tried to think rationally. His first instinct was to get out immediately; just walk into the woods and disapparate.  

当他至少平复了呼吸（天啊，我真想抽根烟）后，雷穆斯试图理性思考。他的第一个本能是立即离开；直接走进树林然后幻影移形。

 

But then what? Explain to Moody and Ferox that while he’d had a lovely few weeks away, things had got a bit too scary so he’d turned tailed at the first opportunity? No. If Greyback was meeting with Voldemort then that had to mean an attack was coming. Remus couldn’t let that happen.  

但然后呢？向穆迪和费罗克斯解释，尽管他有几个美好的周末，但事情变得有点太吓人了，所以他一有机会就逃走了？不行。如果格雷伯克正在与伏地魔会面，那一定意味着即将发生袭击。雷穆斯不能让那种事情发生。

 

He would wait, at least to find out if Castor would tell him anything. In the meantime, Remus did his very best to conjure up a happy memory. He would need to send a patronus as soon as possible.  

他会等，至少看看卡斯托尔会不会告诉他什么。与此同时，雷穆斯尽力回忆起一个快乐的记忆。他需要尽快发出一个守护神。

 

* * *

 

Brothers! Sisters! Gather near.  

兄弟们！姐妹们！聚过来。

 

Livia’s voice inside his head had to be one of the least pleasant experiences Remus had had since

 

 joining the pack. It worked, though, he scrambled up the stairs of the crypt into the ruined church, where the others were congregating. Greyback stood by the pulpit, Castor and Livia either side of him, backs straight and heads high.  

莉维亚的声音在他脑海中回响，这是雷穆斯自加入狼群以来经历过的最不愉快的体验之一。不过，这确实有效，他匆忙爬上地窖的楼梯，进入废弃的教堂，其他人都聚集在那里。格雷伯克站在讲坛旁，卡斯托尔和莉维亚站在他两边，背挺得笔直，头高高地抬着。

 

“My children,” Greyback addressed them all, raising his arms like an evangelist preacher, “The moon approaches, our time is near.”  

“我的孩子们，”格雷伯克向他们所有人说，像传教士一样举起双臂，“月亮临近，我们的时间到了。”

 

There was a murmur of excitement at this. For many, the full moons represented a chance to be free; to be one’s true self.  

对此有一阵兴奋的低语。对于许多人来说，满月代表了自由的机会；成为真实的自己。

 

Greyback raised a finger to silence them. He smiled paternally, “I have spoken with our benefactor. This moon, we shall feast on our enemies. We have been given the gift of prey.”  

格雷伯克举起一根手指让他们安静下来。他像父亲一样微笑着，“我已经和我们的恩人谈过了。这个月，我们将以敌人为食。我们得到了猎物的馈赠。”

 

Some of the pack members cheered and whooped, chattering with even more excitement.  

一些狼群成员欢呼起来，更加兴奋地交谈着。

 

Oh no, Remus’s stomach lurched, oh no, oh no…  

哦不，雷穆斯的胃一阵翻腾，哦不，哦不……

 

“Livia and Castor will lead you.” Greyback said, “You will bring the girl-child to me—the parents you may keep for yourselves.”  

“莉维亚和卡斯托尔会带领你们。”格雷伯克说，“你们要把女孩带给我——父母可以留给你们自己。”

 

More cheering. Not everyone—Remus saw a few of the younger ones glancing at each other shiftily, and Jeremy’s wide eyes were practically burning a hole in Castor’s back. Not all of them, Remus thought, they can be saved, they can, they can…  

更多的欢呼声。并不是所有人——雷穆斯看到一些年轻的成员狡猾地互相看了看，而杰里米的眼睛几乎要在卡斯托尔的背上烧出一个洞来。不是所有人，雷穆斯想，他们可以被拯救，他们可以，他们可以……

 

Remus Lupin. A voice popped into his head. He blinked, stunned—it was Castor. It is not safe to speak of this here. You will join me in the forests.  

雷穆斯·卢平。一个声音在他脑海中响起。他眨了眨眼，震惊——是卡斯托尔。这儿说这个不安全。你会在森林里加入我。

 

Remus looked over at Castor, who was staring blankly ahead, as always, inscrutable. He hadn’t tried communicating like that before, but the pack was close enough, and the magic of the forest pressing in, so he concentrated hard.  

雷穆斯看向卡斯托尔，他像往常一样茫然地盯着前方，难以捉摸。他以前没有尝试过这样交流，但狼群足够近，加上森林的魔力逼迫着，所以他努力集中注意力。

 

Yes. I understand.  

是的。我明白。

 

Castor made no sign that he had heard, so Remus just had to hope. Greyback left shortly after that, giving Remus a cruel wink as he passed,  

卡斯托尔没有表现出他听到了，所以雷穆斯只能寄希望于此。格雷伯克不久后离开，经过时给了雷穆斯一个残忍的眼神，

 

“Your time to shine, cub.” He said. Remus knew he ought to nod, or something, but he was too tense, and just stared stiffly back.  

“闪光的时刻到了，小崽子。”他说。雷穆斯知道他应该点头或做点什么，但他太紧张了，只是僵硬地回瞪着。

 

Castor announced that he was going hunting, and Remus quickly agreed to join him. Livia gave them both an appraising look.  

卡斯托尔宣布他要去打猎，雷穆斯迅速同意加入他。莉维亚对他们两人都投以评估的目光。

 

“Do not tire yourselves, brothers. We have such games ahead of us.”  

“不要让自己累坏了，兄弟们。我们还有很多游戏要玩。”

 

They walked through the woods in silence. It was late afternoon, and quite mild for April; the sun lowering but still bright. They’d had very little rain so far this year, but that hadn’t stopped the trees and plants around them from exploding into life. Everything was lush and green and bountiful, and as they approached a small clearing Remus saw that the bluebells had begun to spring up, and the woodland floor ahead of them was carpeted in a glorious haze of soft mauve.  

他们默默地穿过树林。那是下午晚些时候，对于四月来说相当温和；太阳在下降但仍然明亮。今年到目前为止雨水很少，但这并没有阻止周围的树木和植物爆发出生命力。一切都郁郁葱葱、绿意盎然、富饶充盈，当他们接近一个小空地时，雷穆斯看到蓝铃花已经开始冒出来，前方的森林地面铺满了一层柔和的紫色薄雾。

 

“Won’t you miss this?” Castor asked, quietly. He obviously judged them far enough away from Greyback.  

“你不会想念这些吗？”卡斯托尔轻声问道。他显然认为他们已经离格雷伯克够远了。

 

“Yes.” Remus replied. He meant it. He had hated nature all his life—even the forbidden forest. He loved London; the concrete and pollution and the noise. But the past month had changed him, and he knew how much he would miss the peace and quiet, and feeling so close to the earth.  

“会的。”雷穆斯回答。他是认真的。他一生都讨厌自然——甚至是禁林。他爱伦敦；混凝土、污染和噪音。但过去的一个月改变了他，他知道自己会多么想念宁静和平静，感到如此接近大地的感觉。

 

“But your time with us grows short.” Castor said. “I think perhaps all our time is short, now.” He sighed heavily, and looked at Remus with completely human eyes; grey and penitent, “I am ready to defy my father.”  

“但你与我们在一起的时间越来越短。”卡斯托尔说。“我想也许我们所有人的时间都不多了。”他沉重地叹了口气，用完全人类的眼睛看着雷穆斯；灰色的，忏悔的，“我准备违抗我的父亲。”

 

“Do you mean—will you help me?”  

“你的意思是——你会帮我吗？”

 

“We shall help each other. For the good of the pack. I have a plan, but Remus Lupin, you must listen to me, and you must obey me. I need to know that you will do what needs to be done.”  

“我们将互相帮助。为了狼群的利益。我有一个计划，但雷穆斯·卢平，你必须听我的，你必须服从我。我需要知道你会做需要做的事情。”

 

“I will never kill for him.” Remus said, fiercely.  

“我永远不会为他杀人。”雷穆斯愤怒地说。

 

“But you might kill.” Castor responded, raising an eyebrow.  

“但你可能会杀人。”卡斯托尔回应，挑了挑眉。

 

It wasn’t a question; it was a statement. And Remus did not deny it.  

这不是一个问题；这是一个陈述。雷穆斯没有否认。

* * *

There were no goodbyes, of course. Remus did not even know who was on their side - his and Castor’s. No names were spoken, he just had to have faith.  

当然，没有告别。Remus甚至不知道谁站在他们这一边——他和Castor的那一边。没有提到名字，他只能有信心。

 

On the morning of the full moon Remus crept as far away from the pack as he could to cast his patronus. He hoped that the others wouldn’t pick up on the spell, which was powerful and sure to attract attention.  

在满月的早晨，Remus尽可能远离狼群以施放守护神。他希望其他人不会察觉到这个咒语，它很强大，肯定会引起注意。

 

He’d never sent a message via patronus before, and once again regretted the creature’s fearsome size and aspect. Hopefully it wouldn’t be too terrifying for Sirius to hear Remus’s voice coming from the giant silver wolf’s jaws. He could only manage three words. Castle. Tomorrow. Dawn.  

他以前从未通过守护神传递过信息，再次后悔这种生物的可怕大小和外貌。希望Sirius不会因为听到Remus的声音从巨大的银狼口中传出而感到太恐怖。他只能勉强说出三个字。城堡。明天。黎明。

 

And that was his escape route taken care of - if he survived the night. Castor promised - Remus made him swear on their very blood - that if Remus did not live, then he would get a message to Sirius and the Potters. There was no other way, Remus decided. He had to be there for the attack; the last time he’d warned the Order about werewolves nothing had been done. So he would have to do it himself, and damn the consequences.  

这就是他的逃生路线——如果他能活过这个晚上。Castor承诺——Remus让他用他们的血发誓——如果Remus没能活下来，他会把消息传给Sirius和Potters。没有其他办法，Remus决定。他必须在那里应对袭击；上次他警告了凤凰社关于狼人的问题，但什么都没做。所以他不得不自己动手，不顾后果。

 

Obviously, he’d prefer not to die, though.  

显然，他还是希望不要死。


 An hour or so before moonrise, the pack apparated together. It was just as well that Remus hadn’t run away to tell Moody at his first opportunity - because he had absolutely no idea where they were going. He was forced to side-along with Livia, and they landed together on a soft mossy patch of grass.  
 月出前大约一个小时，狼群一起幻影移形。幸好Remus没有在第一次机会时跑去告诉Moody——因为他完全不知道他们要去哪里。他被迫与Livia并排，最终他们一起落在一片柔软的苔藓地上。 
 Remus wrenched his arm away from her and stared around at his new surroundings. It was such a weird place - just a flat plain of grass, a few trees, a fence - ah. He realised stupidly that they were in a park. Man-made nature. The whole place smelled human and muggle-ish. The rest of the pack were arriving around them, one by one with a *crack* and a thud.  
 Remus猛地把手臂从她那儿抽回来，环顾四周。他们在一个奇怪的地方——只是平坦的草地，几棵树，一道栅栏——啊。他愚蠢地意识到他们在一个公园里。人造的自然。整个地方闻起来像人类和麻瓜的味道。狼群的其他成员陆续到达，伴随着*啪*和咚的声音。 
 “That’s the place,” Castor said, addressing everyone. He pointed over the fence to a row of houses across the road. The park was in a quiet muggle cul-de-sac. “With the green door.”  
 “就是那里，”Castor对大家说。他指着栅栏对面的那排房子。公园在一个安静的麻瓜死胡同里。“有绿色门的那间。” 
 Remus crept as close to the fence as he dared, and peered over at the building. Had his parents lived in a similar house, once? It looked like the sort of place Hope belonged.  
 Remus尽可能靠近栅栏，仔细看着那栋建筑。他的父母曾经住在类似的房子里吗？看起来这像是Hope该住的地方。 
 It was a small, detached house. The front door was a cheerful shade of green, and the porch light glowed soft amber in the twilight. Remus could make out the silhouette of someone moving in one of the upstairs windows - the pale pink blind was drawn down, so he could only see shadows. That must be the child’s room, he thought with a terrible wave of nausea.  
 那是一栋小型的独立房子。前门是令人愉快的绿色，门廊灯在暮色中散发着柔和的琥珀光。Remus可以看出有人在楼上的一个窗户里移动的剪影——淡粉色的窗帘拉下来，所以他只能看到影子。那一定是孩子的房间，他想着，一阵恶心袭来。 
 He couldn’t let this happen. He wouldn’t. If he had to kill Livia. If he had to die himself, he wouldn’t let-- wait a minute.  
 他不能让这发生。他不会。如果他必须杀了Livia。如果他必须死，他也不会让——等一下。 
 A gust of wind blew a scent in his direction. One he recognised. He sniffed the air again. What was that? Someone he knew? It smelled almost like Sirius, almost, but not quite. Old blood; old magic. A relative? Not Regulus, he wouldn’t be caught dead on a street this muggle-ish. Nor either of their parents. It was feminine too, it was more like Narcissa, or… surely not Andromeda??  
 一阵风吹来一股气味，朝他的方向吹来。他认出了那味道。他又闻了闻空气。那是什么？他认识的人？闻起来几乎像Sirius，几乎，但不完全是。古老的血液；古老的魔法。一个亲戚？不是Regulus，他不会被抓死在这么麻瓜的街道上。也不是他们的父母。那也是女性的，更像Narcissa，还是……肯定不是Andromeda吧？ 
 He couldn’t be sure, he’d only met her once, when he was thirteen. But she had a daughter. A daughter who would be about five or six, now. Heart pounding, Remus desperately wanted to get closer, to find out more.  
 他不能确定，他只见过她一次，当时他十三岁。但她有一个女儿。一个大约五六岁的女儿。心跳加速，Remus迫切想靠近，了解更多。 
 Then, in an amazing stroke of luck, the green door opened, letting light out into the street. A man stepped out, carrying a shiny black bin bag. He walked to the end of the garden path, opened the dustbin lid, dropped the bag inside, then returned to the house.  
 然后，幸运的事情发生了，绿色的门打开了，让光线照进街道。一个男人走出来，拿着一个闪亮的黑色垃圾袋。他走到花园小径的尽头，打开垃圾桶盖，把袋子扔进去，然后返回房子。 
 It was Ted Tonks.  
 是Ted Tonks。 
 No, no no, Remus thought to himself - if something happened to Andromeda, to her little girl… Sirius would never forgive him. Remus didn’t know if he would forgive himself.  
 不，不不，Remus心想——如果Andromeda出了什么事，她的小女孩……Sirius永远不会原谅他。Remus不知道他是否会原谅自己。 
 “Remus!” Castor whispered from the bushes behind him, “It is almost time.”  
 “Remus！”Castor从他身后的灌木丛中低声说，“时间快到了。” 
 Remus turned and nodded. He hoped this would work. He’d never been so close to praying in his life. A stab of pain shot through his back. The moon was rising.  
 Remus转身点头。他希望这能奏效。他一生中从未如此接近祈祷。一阵剧痛穿过他的背部。月亮正在升起。 
 He backed into the park, where a few of the others had curled up on the ground, preparing for the agonies of transformation.  
 他退回公园，那儿有几个人已经蜷缩在地上，准备迎接变形的痛苦。 
 Remus looked at Castor, standing beside him. It was a peculiar sensation - he had transformed in front of the marauders before, but never with others who were experiencing the same thing. Castor caught his eye, and seeming to understand at once, reached out his hand.  
 Remus看着站在他身边的Castor。这是一种奇特的感觉——他以前曾在掠 
 夺者面前变形过，但从未与其他经历同样事情的人一起。Castor看到了他的眼神，似乎立刻明白了，伸出手来。 
 Remus took it, gratefully, and gripped it hard, clenching his teeth as the pain swept through him. Castor gripped back, sharing his suffering, but also lending strength. They both fell to their knees at the same time, and Remus remembered no more.  
 Remus感激地接住了，紧紧握住，在痛苦席卷他时咬紧牙关。Castor也回握，分享他的痛苦，但也给予力量。他们同时跪下，Remus不再记得什么。 
 The wolf stretched its limbs and sniffed at the night air. Pack. Prey. Magic.  
 狼伸展四肢，嗅着夜晚的空气。狼群。猎物。魔法。 
 He rolled over in the grass, pleased to be free, unencumbered by human worries.  
 他在草地上翻滚，开心地自由了，没有人类的烦恼。 
 His pack mate nudged him, huffing softly, and he remembered - he had something to do. This was not a night for playing, or for hunting.  
 他的狼群伙伴轻轻推了推他，轻声呼气，他记起了——他有事要做。这不是一个玩耍或狩猎的夜晚。 
 The she-wolf, and the one that hated him both snapped at the others, and the young ones ducked their heads, lowered their haunches.  
 母狼和那个恨他的狼都对其他狼咬了咬，年轻的狼低下头，弯下身。 
 But he would not - he was not a cub; he was full grown. He was strong as them.  
 但他不会——他不是幼崽；他已经成年了。他和他们一样强壮。 
 The pack-mate with the scarred nose smelled good, he was strong too. He growled at the others, so the wolf did too; puffing up his body and showing all his teeth so that they knew.  
 有伤疤鼻子的狼群伙伴闻起来很好，他也很强壮。他对其他狼咆哮，狼也这样做；胀起身体，露出所有牙齿，让他们知道。 
 The scarred one gave out a bark, then, and turned away, running for the trees. Some of the others followed, confused.  
 那个有伤疤的狼发出一声吠叫，然后转身，朝树跑去。其他一些狼跟着，感到困惑。 
 The dark wolf, the wolf who hated him, snarled and leapt at the scarred one, onto his back. They grappled, turning over in the grass growling and snapping.  
 那只黑狼，那只恨他的狼，咆哮着跳向有伤疤的狼，扑在它的背上。他们在草地上翻滚，咆哮和撕咬。 
 The she-wolf watched. She sat, and yawned. She need not involve herself.  
 母狼在旁边看着。她坐下，打了个哈欠。她不需要参与。 
 The rest of the pack watched avidly, panting and yapping as blood was drawn.  
 狼群的其他成员热切地看着，喘息着，叫嚷着，鲜血四溅。 
 He wanted to help, to jump in and start biting - but the scarred one needed to win it himself. It was his fight.  
 他想帮忙，跳进去开始咬——但有伤疤的狼需要自己赢得这场战斗。这是他的战斗。 
 The scent in the air changed, and the she-wolf stood, ears up, tail swishing.  
 空气中的气味变了，母狼站起来，耳朵竖起，尾巴摇摆。 
 A human.  
 一个人类。 
 They had been heard. She began to stalk towards the fence, hunting, as the stupid human shouted in its stupid human language.  
 他们被听到了。她开始向栅栏走去，猎捕，因为那个愚蠢的人类用愚蠢的人类语言喊叫。 
 Not quite knowing why, he howled, long and as loud as he could.  
 不知道为什么，他长长地嚎叫，尽可能大声。 
 The she-wolf whipped around, growling fiercely at him, pulling rank, but he howled again.  
 母狼猛地转身，凶狠地对他咆哮，摆出威风，但他再次嚎叫。 
 The human retreated, fast. They knew now. They would bring back others. He had endangered the pack.  
 那个人类迅速撤退。他们现在知道了。他们会带其他人来。他已经危及了狼群。 
 The she-wolf barked at the dark one, but he was already pinned to the ground by the scarred one. Victory. The young wolves looked up to the scarred one now, sniffing at him and lowering their heads.  
 母狼对黑狼吠叫，但他已经被有伤疤的狼压在地上。胜利。年轻的狼现在仰望有伤疤的狼，嗅着他，低下头。 
 The scarred one barked, then climbed off the dark one. He turned and began to walk away. Some followed. The pack divided.  
 有伤疤的狼吠了一声，然后从黑狼身上爬起来。他转身开始走开。一些狼跟着。狼群分裂了。 
 The she-wolf ran after the scarred one, to bring him back, to restore order. But she would not catch them. They were a new pack now; unless she killed the scarred one they would not follow anyone else.  
 母狼追赶有伤疤的狼，试图把他带回来，恢复秩序。但她不会抓住他们。他们现在是一个新群体；除非她杀了有伤疤的狼，否则他们不会再跟随其他人。 
 He wanted to go too. He wanted to run with them forever, and be their leader, and chase deer through the dark nights…  
 他也想去。他想永远和他们一起奔跑，成为他们的领袖，在黑夜中追逐鹿…… 
 But no. He had to do this first. He had to protect… to protect… what was it? It was so hard to think, when the delicious scent of human meat was so close; coming in on all sides.  
 但不。他必须先做这件事。他必须保护……保护……是什么？当人类肉的美味气味如此接近时，思考真的很难；从四面八方传来。 
 The dark one limped to its feet. Remus growled. It snarled back at him, jaws frothing, eyes baleful.  
 黑狼跛着站起来。Remus咆哮。它回吼他，嘴巴起泡，眼神恶毒。 
 He remembered, now. Protect the pack. He pounced, jaws wide and claws bared.  
 他现在记得了。保护狼群。他扑过去，张开嘴，露出利爪。

 

* * *

All he knew was pain, pain and blood, as Remus’s body pulled itself back into its human shape. He screamed, and Gaius’s blood ran down his gullet, rich and warm. It was in his teeth, under his tongue, it was everywhere, and Gaius’s body lay there, limp and pale, throat dark and glistening.

他只知道痛苦，痛苦和血液，因为Remus的身体正在重新变回人形。他尖叫着，Gaius的血液顺着他的喉咙流下来，浓郁而温暖。它在他的牙齿里，舌头下，到处都是，而Gaius的身体躺在那里，柔软而苍白，喉咙黑暗而闪亮。

There was no time for shock. The moon was setting, and people were coming, and Remus wasn’t even fully human yet, but there was no time! He squeezed his eyes shut, gritted his teeth, and apparated.
没有时间震惊。月亮正在下沉，人们正在赶来，而Remus还没有完全变成人形，但没有时间了！他紧闭双眼，咬紧牙关，然后幻影移形。

CRACK
啪

He landed flat on his face with a hard grunt. His ankle cracked sickeningly against a rock. He gasped, rolling into a ball, tears springing in his eyes as he vowed never to apparate right after a transformation ever again.
他平平地摔在脸上，发出一声沉重的呻吟。他的脚踝令人作呕地撞到一块石头上。他倒吸一口气，卷成一团，眼泪涌上眼眶，他发誓再也不会在变形后立即幻影移形了。

His whole foot throbbed, shooting all the way up his shin, making him feel giddy. He was still sticky with blood and without any clothes all he could do was curl up in pain on the grass. Was he even in Cornwall?! He couldn’t tell; where was the castle?!
他的整个脚在抽痛，疼痛从小腿一路向上，使他感到眩晕。他身上还沾满了血迹，没穿任何衣服，所能做的只是蜷缩在草地上痛苦地呻吟。他甚至不确定自己是否在Cornwall？！他无法判断；城堡在哪里？！

“Fuck!” He sobbed, exhausted and defeated.
“该死！”他抽泣着，筋疲力尽，心灰意冷。

“Moony?!” A shout came up from over the side of the hill.
“Moony？！”一个喊声从山坡上传来。

Remus rolled onto his back and closed his eyes, so relieved he thought he’d faint.
Remus翻过身来，闭上眼睛，松了一口气，几乎要昏过去了。

“Sirius!” He called back, as the heavy footsteps pounded closer.
“Sirius！”他回应道，沉重的脚步声越来越近。

And then he was there, and oh god Remus just about fell apart. Sirius threw his cloak over him and pulled him close and wrapped his arms around him. Remus clutched him back, trembling, the pain in his leg now threatening to overwhelm him.
然后他出现了，天啊，Remus几乎崩溃。Sirius把斗篷扔在他身上，把他拉近，紧紧地抱住他。Remus也紧紧抓住他，颤抖着，腿上的痛苦现在几乎要压倒他。

“You came back!” Sirius gasped, voice shrill, “You came back!”
“你回来了！”Sirius喘息着，声音尖锐，“你回来了！”

“Of course I did...” Remus said, woozily.
“当然了……”Remus迷迷糊糊地说。

“Are you bleeding?!”
“你在流血吗？！”

“Not my blood…” and then everything was going dark around the edges, and he was so exhausted he closed his eyes. And nothing more.
“不是我的血……”然后一切都在边缘变暗，他太累了，闭上了眼睛。再也感觉不到什么。

 

Chapter 162: The War: Moony's Story 

He came to in a small white room, with a low ceiling striped with black beams. There was a little square window, but the curtains were drawn over. Someone had washed the blood off him, thank goodness, though he could still smell it, faintly, and taste it too. He was lying in a single bed, and other than a little bedside table with an old lamp on it, there wasn’t much else in the room.  

他醒来时发现自己在一个小白房间里，天花板低矮，黑色横梁条纹交错。有一扇小方窗，但窗帘拉着。有人帮他洗掉了身上的血迹，谢天谢地，虽然他仍能隐约闻到血腥味，也能尝到血味。他躺在一张单人床上，房间里除了一个带旧灯的小床头柜外，没什么别的东西。

 

The door was slightly ajar, and Remus could hear voices in the corridor outside.  

门微微开着，Remus能听到外面走廊上的声音。

 

“Marlene’s here,” James’s voice came through clearly, “Should I let her up? Did you ask him any questions?!”  

“Marlene来了，”James的声音清晰地传来，“我应该让她上来吗？你问过他问题了吗？！"

 

“Yeah, send her up. He’s not awake...” Sirius said, his voice sounding odd. “But it's definitely him. Has to be.”  

“是的，让她上来。他还没醒……”Sirius说，他的声音听起来有些奇怪。“但肯定是他。必须是。”

 

“You're sure?!”  

“你确定？！”

 

“The first thing he said when he landed was ‘fuck’, I’m pretty certain.” Sirius snapped.  

“他落地时说的第一句话是‘该死’，我很确定。”Sirius厉声说。

 

“Fair.” James replied, without humour. He lowered his voice to a whisper, “Padfoot… all that blood. And with the attack last night--"  

“好吧。”James无趣地回答。他压低声音耳语道，“Padfoot……那么多血。而且昨晚的袭击——”

 

“Let's just see what he has to say, before we jump to any conclusions, shall we?! Send Marlene up.”  

“我们先听听他怎么说，再下结论，好吗？！让Marlene上来。”

 

“But if it's not safe.”  

“但如果不安全的话。”

 

“Then I’ll stay in the bloody room. Can we please just get someone to look at him, for fuck’s sake?! He hasn’t even got a wand!”  

“那我就呆在这个该死的房间里。拜托，能不能找人看看他？！他连魔杖都没有！”

 

“Ok, ok…” James relented.  

“好吧，好吧……”James让步道。

 

God, Remus thought, as shame settled over him like dust. They think I’m not me. They think I’m a spy. How bad had the war become, in the month he’d been away? He racked his brain quickly for a way to prove his identity. The thought of Sirius not trusting him was too painful to bear.  

天哪，Remus想，羞耻感像灰尘一样笼罩着他。他们认为我不是我。他们认为我是间谍。在他离开的这一个月里，战争变得多么糟糕？他迅速思考证明自己身份的方法。Sirius不信任他的想法太痛苦了。

 

There was a mess of footsteps in the hall outside, and finally the door opened. Remus tried to sit up at once, pulling himself up by his arms as Sirius entered the room.  

外面的走廊上传来一阵杂乱的脚步声，最终门开了。Sirius进入房间时，Remus试图立刻坐起来，用手臂支撑自己。

 

“Padfoot, I swear it's me, it's Moony! I helped you make the marauders map, and we put rose hips in Snivelllus’ bed, and we went skating on the lake at Christmas and I hated it but you were really good, and… and…”  

“Padfoot，我发誓是我，是Moony！我帮你制作了活点地图，我们在Snivelllus的床上放了玫瑰果，我们在圣诞节去湖上滑冰，我讨厌它，但你滑得很好，还有……还有……”

 

“Shh, Moony,” Sirius soothed, sitting on the bed carefully and placing gentle hands on his shoulder, “Lie down for fuck’s sake, Godric knows what you broke apparating like that you silly sod…”  

“嘘，Moony，”Sirius安抚道，小心翼翼地坐在床上，轻轻地把手放在他的肩膀上，“躺下，拜托，你这个傻瓜，Godric知道你幻影移形时弄断了什么……”

 

“You know it's me?!” Remus gripped Sirius’s arms, but allowed himself to be put back to bed.  

“你知道是我？！”Remus抓住Sirius的手臂，但让自己重新躺回床上。

 

“Of course I do.” Sirius leaned over and kissed his forehead, “I’d know you anywhere. Look, sorry about Prongs, he’s just on edge. Things have just been a bit…”  

“当然知道。”Sirius俯身亲吻他的额头，“无论在哪里我都认得你。听着，对Prongs说声抱歉，他只是有点紧张。事情有点……”

 

“All right, all right, give him some room!”  

“好吧，好吧，给他点空间！”

 

Sirius whipped around as Marlene stormed into the room, green Healer’s robes flying and leather bag in hand.  

Marlene风风火火地冲进房间，绿色的治疗师长袍飞扬，手里拿着皮包，Sirius猛地转过身来。

 

She shoved Sirius off the bed and leaned over Remus, laying a cool hand on his forehead and looking in his eyes, her freckled face full of sweet concern. She smiled,  

她把Sirius从床上推开，俯身看着Remus，把一只凉凉的手放在他的额头上，看着他的眼睛，她那满是雀斑的脸上满是甜蜜的关切。她笑了，

 

“Hello sweetheart,” she said softly, “Where have you been, eh? You’ve had us all worried sick.”  

“你好，亲爱的，”她轻声说道，“你去哪儿了，嗯？你让我们都担心死了。”

 

“Hi Marlene,” Remus smiled back fondly. “Did you qualify as a Healer while I was gone?!”  

“嗨，Marlene，”Remus深情地笑着回应。“我不在的时候你成为治疗师了吗？！”

 

“Hardly,” she laughed, “Still very much a novice. But I’m the best the Order could do at short notice so…” She straightened up, hands on her hips, “Right. What's the damage?”  

“还没有，”她笑道，“我还是个新手。不过我是在短时间内骑士团能找到的最好的了，所以……”她挺直腰杆，双手叉腰，“好了，哪里受伤了？”

 

“Hurt my ankle,” Remus reached down to pull up the blanket over his sore foot. It looked awful in the light of day, all swollen and black with bruising. Sirius covered his mouth, but Marlene just tutted,  

“脚踝受伤了，”Remus伸手拉起毯子，盖住他疼痛的脚。在白天的光线下看起来糟透了，肿胀且青黑一片。Sirius捂住了嘴，但Marlene只是啧了一声，

 

“Easy enough.” She tapped it with her wand, and Remus felt a funny ticklish feeling before *pop* - and it was as good as new. “You’ll still need to rest,” Marlene cautioned.  

“这很容易。”她用魔杖敲了一下，Remus感觉到一种奇怪的痒痒的感觉，然后*啪*——就好了。“你还是需要休息，”Marlene警告道。

 

“You’re a legend, Marls,” Remus said gratefully, and then began to cough, that rough raspy bark he’d almost got used to now. “Sorry,” he spluttered, eyes watering, “Got a bit of a cough.”  

“你是个传奇，Marls，”Remus感激地说，然后开始咳嗽，那粗糙嘶哑的声音他几乎已经习惯了。“对不起，”他结结巴巴地说，眼泪汪汪，“有点咳嗽。”

 

Sirius was wincing, and looked more distressed than ever, hand still over his mouth. Marlene pulled down the bedsheets and lay her head directly on Remus’s bare chest, listening.  

Sirius皱着眉头，比以往任何时候都显得更加痛苦，手仍然捂着嘴。Marlene拉下床单，把头直接贴在Remus裸露的胸膛

 

上，听着。

 

“‘Bit of a cough’ my arse.” She tutted, surfacing, “You’ve got a stonking great chest infection, is what.”  

“‘有点咳嗽’？真是放屁。”她啧了一声，浮上来，“你得了严重的胸部感染。”

 

She began emptying her bag, pulling out ointments and potion bottles, “I’ll have to ask someone at St Mungo’s what's best for that, I haven’t done infections yet… now… Madam Pomfrey asked me to make sure you got this, it’s her own sleeping draught. I’m working on one myself, but hers will be stronger…”  

她开始掏出她的包，拿出药膏和药瓶，“我得问问圣芒戈的人什么药最有效，我还没学过感染……现在……Pomfrey夫人让我确认你拿到这个，这是她自制的安眠药。我自己也在研究一种，但她的药效更强……”

 

“Don’t give it to him yet!” Suddenly James was in the room, starting forward with his arm out. Everyone turned to look at him, and he rubbed the back of his neck sheepishly, “Er… sorry. It’s just that I’ve finally got hold of Mad-Eye and he’s on his way…”  

“先别给他！”突然James出现在房间里，伸出手臂冲上前。所有人都转向看他，他尴尬地揉了揉脖子，“呃……对不起。我终于联系到Mad-Eye了，他正赶来……”

 

“It’s fine,” Remus said to the room.  

“没事，”Remus对房间里的人说。

 

Marlene tutted again. She set the potion bottle down on the bedside table.  

Marlene又啧了一声。她把药瓶放在床头柜上。

 

“One of you make sure he drinks the whole thing as soon as possible, ok?” She gave James and Sirius a severe look, and they both nodded earnestly. “I have to go to work before I’m missed.” She said, straightening up once more.  

“你们中有一个确保他尽快喝完这整瓶药，好吗？”她严厉地看着James和Sirius，他们都认真地点了点头。“我得去上班，免得被人发现。”她再次挺直腰板说道。

 

She squeezed Remus’s hand. “So happy to have you back, darling.”  

她握了握Remus的手。“真高兴你回来了，亲爱的。”

 

He squeezed back, feeling a bit better about everything. They cared about him. He was safe with them. He lay back on his pillow and tried to focus on that feeling.  

他也回握着，感觉一切都好了一点。他们关心他。他和他们在一起很安全。他靠回枕头，试图专注于这种感觉。

 

James and Sirius stood about awkwardly.  

James和Sirius尴尬地站在那里。

 

“Hi Prongs,” Remus tried, a bit wary.  

“嗨，Prongs，”Remus试探道，有点警惕。

 

“Hiya Moony,” James smiled, his eyes tired and dark, “You all right?”  

“嗨，Moony，”James笑道，眼睛疲惫而黯淡，“你还好吗？”

 

“Felt worse.”  

“感觉还不算太糟。”

 

James made a sound that wasn’t quite a laugh.  

James发出一种不像笑声的声音。

 

“Where are we, anyway?” Remus asked, looking around at the pokey little room.  

“我们到底在哪儿？”Remus问道，环顾这个狭小的房间。

 

“Cornwall.” Sirius said. “Remember the pub near the castle? Rented a room. You were… when you got here, I didn’t want to move you. Seemed like the best place. Out of the way.”  

“Cornwall。”Sirius说。“记得城堡附近的酒吧吗？租了一间房间。你……你到这里时，我不想动你。似乎是最好的地方。比较偏僻。”

 

“Does anyone else know--”  

“还有人知道吗——”

 

“No.” James said. “Only us, Marlene and Moody. It’s been… things have been hard, and with the attack last night, we thought--”  

“没有。”James说。“只有我们，Marlene和Moody。最近……情况很糟，昨晚的袭击，我们认为——”

 

“Attack?!” Remus sat up again, as the events of the night before came flooding back in a riot of blood and teeth and hair. “Shit, what happened?! Did anyone… was anyone…”  

“袭击？！”Remus再次坐起，前晚的事件涌上心头，一片血腥、牙齿和头发的混乱。“该死，发生了什么？！有没有人……有没有人……”

 

“Not on our side.” Sirius said.  

“我们这边没有。”Sirius说。

 

That didn’t make Remus feel any better, but he tried to look happy about it. He couldn’t let his friends know just how blurry the lines between ‘our side’ and ‘their side’ had become for him.  

这并没有让Remus感觉好点，但他努力显得高兴。他不能让朋友们知道对他来说“我们这边”和“他们那边”之间的界限有多么模糊。

 

“Moony,” James started. “Last night, were you there--?”  

“Moony，”James开口道。“昨晚，你在那里——？”

 

The door swung open once more, creaking loudly, and Alastor Moody came hobbling into the room, his face set with a look of grim determination. James and Sirius backed out of the way, as Mad-Eye approached Remus’s bed. Remus’s first instinct was to duck under his blankets and hide like a little kid.  

门再次打开，发出刺耳的嘎吱声，Alastor Moody一瘸一拐地走进房间，脸上带着坚定的表情。James和Sirius让开了路，Mad-Eye走近Remus的床。Remus的第一个反应是钻到被子里，像个小孩一样躲起来。

 

“Lupin.” Moody nodded, his electric blue magical eye whirring in its socket, giving him a very thorough once-over. “You made it back, then.”  

“Lupin。”Moody点了点头，他那电蓝色的魔法眼在眼眶中转动，仔细地打量着他。“你回来了。”

 

“Yeah.” Remus croaked.  

“是的。”Remus沙哑地说。

 

Moody held his wand up, pointing it in Remus’s face.  

Moody举起魔杖，指向Remus的脸。

 

“Oi!” Sirius started, but James held out an arm to stop him.  

“喂！”Sirius叫道，但James伸出手臂拦住了他。

 

Moody fixed Remus with a very serious gaze.  

Moody用非常严肃的目光看着Remus。

 

“Mother’s maiden name?”  

“母亲的娘家姓？”

 

“J-Jenkins!” Remus stuttered, terrified. Moody nodded, and lowered his wand.  

“J-Jenkins！”Remus结结巴巴地说，吓坏了。Moody点点头，放下了魔杖。

“No offence,” he said, glancing at Sirius, “Protocol.”  

“无意冒犯，”他看了一眼Sirius，“这是规矩。”

 

“Right.” Remus swallowed, heart pounding.  

“对。”Remus咽了咽口水，心跳加快。

 

“How are you? Been seen to?”  

“你怎么样？有人照顾你了吗？”

 

“Marlene was here a minute ago,” James said. “She’ll be back later.”  

“刚才Marlene在这里，”James说。“她一会儿会回来。”

 

“No one else, do you hear?” Moody said, “Not until I say so. We need to limit his exposure for now, until the furor’s died down.” He waved his wand, and a chair appeared from thin air. Moody sat down, and looked at Remus once more. “Potter, Black, you can go.”  

“听好了，不能再有别人进来，明白吗？”Moody说，“直到我说可以为止。我们现在得控制他的暴露度，直到风波平息。”他挥了挥魔杖，一把椅子凭空出现。Moody坐下来，再次看着Remus。“Potter, Black，你们可以走了。”

 

“No.” Sirius said, raising his chin. His defiant look hadn't changed since he was eleven. “I’m not going anywhere.”  

“不。”Sirius说，抬起下巴。他那种反抗的表情从十一岁起就没变过。“我哪儿也不去。”

 

Moody gave him another look, his tongue playing in the corner of his mouth.  

Moody又看了他一眼，舌头在嘴角打转。

 

“Fine.” He grunted. “But keep your mouth shut. I don’t want to hear a peep, got it?”  

“好吧。”他哼了一声。“但闭上嘴。我不想听到一点声音，明白吗？”

 

“I um. I’d better go.” James said, rubbing the back of his head again, “Sorry Moony, I need to get home…”  

“呃，我最好还是走吧。”James又揉了揉后脑勺，“对不起Moony，我得回家……”

 

“Of course.” Remus said, though he didn’t really understand. Did James no longer trust him?  

“当然。”Remus说，虽然他真的不明白。James不再信任他了吗？

 

James said something to Sirius before leaving, but Remus didn’t catch it, and didn’t try to eavesdrop. He was too busy holding his nerve against Moody.  

James在离开前对Sirius说了些什么，但Remus没听清，也没试图偷听。他正忙着对抗Moody的紧张情绪。

 

He wasn’t up to a battle of wills, not after the last few weeks. Now that he knew the building they were in was muggle, he felt the absence of magic more keenly. He’d been used to the enchanted forest, with its unending pool of shared power. Back in the real world, everything felt so mundane. He felt weaker than ever, and began to cough again.  

过去几周的经历后，他已经无力再进行意志的对抗。现在他知道他们所在的建筑是麻瓜的，他更加感觉到魔法的缺失。他已经习惯了魔法森林，那里的力量源源不断。在现实世界中，一切都显得如此平凡。他比以往任何时候都感觉虚弱，开始再次咳嗽。

 

James left, and Sirius handed Remus a glass of water.  

James离开了，Sirius递给Remus一杯水。

 

“This can’t take too long.” Sirius said to Moody, “He’s supposed to rest, after a full moon, Marlene said--”  

“这不能持续太久。”Sirius对Moody说，“满月后他应该休息，Marlene说——”

 

“Not a peep, Black.” Moody snapped, his blue eye fixing Sirius with a hard stare, the normal, brown one still watching Remus.  

“不要出声，Black。”Moody厉声说道，蓝色的眼睛紧紧盯着Sirius，正常的棕色眼睛仍然看着Remus。

 

Sirius was quiet, but he was clearly not happy about it. He folded his arms petulantly, and looked away. Remus felt a rush of love for him, the spoilt brat.  

Sirius安静了，但显然对此不满。他赌气地抱着双臂，转过脸去。Remus对这个被宠坏的小子涌起一股爱的感觉。

 

“I was there, last night.” Remus said, quickly, to get things moving. He thought it was probably best to be as honest as possible from the beginning. “I was at the Tonks house, I know what happened - well, most of it - was anyone… did anyone…?”  

“昨晚我在那里。”Remus赶紧说，以便让事情进展。他认为从一开始尽可能诚实可能是最好的。“我在Tonks家，我知道发生了什么——嗯，大部分——有没有人……有人……”

 

“One body recovered.” Moody said. “One of Greyback’s.”  

“找回了一具尸体。”Moody说。“是Greyback的一个手下。”

 

“Gaius.” Remus said. He wasn’t sure how he felt. He’d killed somebody.  

“Gaius。”Remus说。他不知道自己感觉如何。他杀了人。

 

“Let’s not start there.” Moody said, watching his face, “I want to start at the beginning. Where have you been for the past month? Leave nothing out.”  

“我们不要从这里开始。”Moody说，看着他的脸，“我想从头开始。你过去一个月在哪里？什么都不要遗漏。”

 

Remus was weak and exhausted and sore, but he was not an idiot. He left plenty out. But he also said a lot more than was probably safe. He didn’t look at Sirius the whole time; he knew that would make things impossible.  

Remus很虚弱，很疲惫，很疼痛，但他不是傻子。他省略了很多。但他也说了很多可能不安全的事情。他整个过程中都没有看Sirius；他知道那会让事情变得不可能。

 

He explained how the pack had kidnapped him, and locked him up for a week and a half. How he’d finally met with Greyback - he heard Sirius breathe in sharply at this, but Moody’s expression didn’t even flicker. He told them most of the things Greyback had said, though he knew none of it was useful to anyone except him. He confirmed that the pack had been working with Voldemort, keeping the old families scared enough to stay loyal.  

他解释了狼群是如何绑架他的，并把他关了一周半。他最终是如何见到Greyback的——他听到Sirius在这一刻急促地吸了一口气，但Moody的表情连一丝波动都没有。他告诉他们Greyback说的大部分话，虽然他知道这些对任何人都没有用，除了他自己。他确认狼群一直在与Voldemort合作，让旧家族保持足够的恐惧以保持忠诚。

 

“You were imprisoned the whole time?” Moody asked.  

“你一直被关着吗？”Moody问。

 

“I… no.” Remus twisted his mouth, nervously. “They broke my wand, but… I could have left any time. I didn’t because I thought… well, I knew it was only a matter of time before they planned an attack, and I wanted to learn as much as I could.”  

“我……没有。”Remus紧张地扭动着嘴。“他们弄断了我的魔杖，但……我随时可以离开。我没走是因为我认为……嗯，我知道他们计划袭击只是时间问题，我想尽可能多了解情况。”

 

He kept his voice steady the whole time, and hoped he was still a convincing liar. Moody did not comment.  

他一直保持声音平稳，希望自己还是个有说服力的骗子。Moody没有评论。

 

“And the attack?”  

“那次袭击呢？”

 

“Right, yeah.” Remus nodded. “I had to go with them, because Cas-- one of the other werewolves, he was planning to break from the pack. He wanted to be peaceful, to get away from Greyback. He was my ally.” Remus felt Sirius’s eyes on him, and hoped it was all in his head. “So I helped him, and he helped me. He led the others away, and I stayed back to stop anyone from trying to attack the house.”  

“对，是的。”Remus点点头。“我必须和他们一起去，因为Cas——另一个狼人，他计划脱离狼群。他想要和平，想远离Greyback。他是我的盟友。”Remus感觉到Sirius的目光，心里希望这只是自己的幻觉。“所以我帮了他，他也帮了我。他把其他人引开，我留下来阻止任何试图袭击房子的人。”

 

“While you were a wolf?”  

“你是狼人时？”

 

“Yes. I can think better, when there are other wolves there. I tried to warn Mr and Mrs Tonks, I howled, so they’d know they were in danger.”  

“是的。有其他狼在时，我

 

能更清楚地思考。我试图警告Tonks夫妇，我嚎叫，让他们知道有危险。”

 

“Ah. So that was you.” Moody nodded, “Ted said something about that.”  

“啊。所以那是你。”Moody点点头，“Ted提到过这件事。”

 

“You’ve seen them? Are they ok?!”  

“你见过他们？他们没事吧？！”

 

“Shaken up, but no harm done.” Moody gave a curt nod. “How many of Greyback’s pack have defected?”  

“受了点惊吓，但没事。”Moody简短地点了点头。“有多少Greyback的手下叛变了？”

 

“I don’t know. At least half? Maybe there are only four or five left who are loyal.”  

“我不知道。至少一半？可能只有四五个还忠诚。”

 

“Good to know. Can you give me names?”  

“很好。能告诉我名字吗？”

 

“They didn’t use any names.” Another lie, but he just couldn’t do it.  

“他们没有用任何名字。”又一个谎言，但他真的不能说。

 

“Right.” Moody nodded. He watched Remus for a bit longer. Then he sniffed and stood up. “Lie low for a bit, eh? I’ll be in touch.” He turned to leave.  

“好吧。”Moody点点头。他又看了Remus一会儿。然后他嗅了嗅鼻子，站了起来。“先低调一点，嗯？我会联系你的。”他转身要走。

 

“Wait!” Remus reached out. Moody turned back, a curious look on his face. Remus bit his lip. “The body.” He said. “Gaius. That was me. I killed him.”  

“等等！”Remus伸出手。Moody转过身，脸上带着好奇的表情。Remus咬住下唇。“那具尸体。”他说。“Gaius。那是我。我杀了他。”

 

Saying it out loud made it distressingly real. He felt queasy, and didn’t think he’d be able to look Sirius in the eye ever again. Moody kept looking at him. He tilted his head.  

把它说出来让它变得令人痛苦的真实。他感到恶心，觉得再也无法直视Sirius的眼睛。Moody一直看着他，歪着头。

 

“While you were a wolf?”  

“你是狼人时？”

 

“Yeah.”  

“是的。”

 

“And he was a wolf? Trying to attack a young family?”  

“他也是狼？试图袭击一个年轻家庭？”

 

“Yeah, but--”  

“是的，但——”

 

“This is a war, Lupin. Get some rest. Don’t dwell on it.”  

“这是战争，Lupin。休息一下。别多想。”

 

And he left, and that was it. Everything Remus had put himself through for almost thirty days, boiled down to a few key tactical points. He fidgeted with the blanket. It was old, and bobbly, and reminded him of the rough army-style blankets he’d grown up with. Sirius was still standing by, watching him, but Remus couldn’t look up, he just couldn’t.  

然后他离开了，就是这样。Remus经历了将近三十天的一切，归结为几个关键的战术要点。他摆弄着毯子。那毯子很旧，起球了，让他想起了他长大时用的粗糙的军用毯子。Sirius仍然站在旁边，看着他，但Remus无法抬头，他真的做不到。

 

Thankfully, Sirius broke the silence first.  

幸好，Sirius先打破了沉默。

 

“Got your patronus. Bloody hell, where did you learn to do that?”  

“收到了你的守护神。天哪，你从哪里学会的？”

 

“Oh,” Remus nodded, still looking down, “Yeah, I dunno, I’d seen Ferox do it once.”  

“哦，”Remus点点头，仍然低着头，“是啊，我不知道，我见过Ferox做过一次。”

 

“Without your wand?”  

“没有你的魔杖？”

 

“I didn’t need it, not always…”  

“我不需要，不是总需要……”

 

“Oh.”  

“哦。”

 

More silence. And then -- “I missed you so fucking much!” Sirius burst out, with such force and passion that Remus finally looked up at him. His eyes were wide, and shimmering with tears. He looked as exhausted as Remus felt, and Remus realised that he must have been up all night, too.  

更多的沉默。然后——“我他妈的太想你了！”Sirius爆发出如此强烈的情感，以至于Remus终于抬头看他。他的眼睛睁得大大的，闪烁着泪光。他看起来和Remus一样疲惫，Remus意识到他肯定也整夜没睡。

 

“I missed you too!”  

“我也想你！”

 

Sirius bolted towards Remus, arms out, but hung back at the last moment,  

Sirius冲向Remus，张开双臂，但在最后一刻停住了，

 

“Can I… is it ok?”  

“我可以……可以吗？”

 

Remus nodded, reaching for him, and Sirius came over and enveloped him in a hug that went on for long, wonderful minutes. Remus felt as if he’d finally been given permission to exhale, and he closed his eyes and felt the warm, comforting weight of Sirius against him.  

Remus点点头，伸手去抱他，Sirius过来抱住他，持续了很长、很美妙的几分钟。Remus感觉自己终于被允许呼吸，闭上眼睛，感受到Sirius温暖、安慰的重量。

 

“I’m sorry,” Remus whispered into Sirius’s hair, “I’m so, so sorry I was gone so long.”  

“对不起，”Remus在Sirius的头发里低语，“对不起，我走了这么久。”

 

Sirius pulled away finally, wiping his eyes briskly,  

Sirius终于拉开了，迅速擦了擦眼睛，

 

“You’d better have this potion.” He reached for the bottle and uncorked it.  

“你最好喝了这个药剂。”他伸手拿起瓶子，拔掉瓶塞。

 

“Thanks,” Remus said, too tired to argue. He took the potion and gulped it down in a few seconds.  

“谢谢，”Remus说，太累了，没力气争论。他拿起药剂，几秒钟内喝了下去。

 

“Shall I let you rest?” Sirius asked, anxiously. Remus shook his head vehemently,  

“我让你休息吗？”Sirius焦急地问。Remus猛摇头，

 

“No, please stay? Will you lie here with me, for a bit?”  

“不，请留下来好吗？你能和我一起躺一会儿吗？”

 

“There's not much room…”  

“空间不大……”

 

“Calling me fat?” Remus poked his tongue out, shuffling aside to make space. Sirius grinned at him, and lay down.  

“说我胖吗？”Remus吐了吐舌头，挪了挪身子腾出空间。Sirius对他咧嘴一笑，躺了下来。

 

He put an arm gently across Remus’s shoulder, and they lay on their sides facing each other.  

他轻轻地把一只手臂搭在Remus的肩上，两人侧身面对面躺着。

 

“Does James hate me?” Remus asked, finally.  

“James恨我吗？”Remus终于问道。

 

“What?” Sirius frowned. Oh god, he was so beautiful this close up, how had Remus forgotten? “No, of course not. He's got a lot on his mind. His parents aren’t well.”  

“什么？”Sirius皱眉。天哪，他这么近看真的太美了，Remus怎么会忘记呢？“不，当然不。他有很多心事。他的父母身体不好。”

 

“Oh no, what's wrong?!”  

“哦不，怎么了？！”

 

“I think they’re just old.” Sirius said, sadly. “The war… it's been so much harder, lately.”  

“我想他们只是年纪大了。”Sirius难过地说。“战争……最近更艰难了。”

 

“Please tell me.”  

“请告诉我。”

 

“You should sleep.”  

“你应该睡觉。”

 

“Please?”  

“请？”

 

Sirius sighed. He looked down, then back up, and his eyes were shining once more.  

Sirius叹了口气。他低下头，又抬起头，眼中再次闪烁着光芒。

 

“We lost the Prewetts. Gid and Fab.”  

“我们失去了Prewetts。Gid和Fab。”

 

“No!”  

“不！”

 

“It was awful. Five Death Eaters. Five.”  

“太可怕了。五个食死徒。五个。”

 

“I can’t believe it. Is Molly ok?”  

“我不敢相信。Molly还好吗？”

 

“I don’t think any of us are.”  

“我想我们

 

谁都不好。”

 

“Oh Sirius.” Remus hugged him again. “I wish I could have been with you…”  

“哦，Sirius。”Remus再次抱住他。“我真希望能和你在一起……”

 

“I thought…” Sirius shut his eyes, then shook his head, hair rustling against the pillow. “No, never mind, it's over now. You're here. You’re safe.”  

“我以为……”Sirius闭上眼睛，然后摇摇头，头发在枕头上沙沙作响。“不，没关系，一切都结束了。你在这儿。你安全了。”

 

“I’m here.” Remus repeated, feeling the sleeping draught start to kick in. Sirius stroked his hair gently.  

“我在这儿。”Remus重复道，感觉到安眠药开始起作用。Sirius轻轻地抚摸着他的头发。

 

“Remus…”  

“Remus……”

 

“Mm,” Remus shifted, making himself more comfortable, “Please call me Moony? No one has for so long.”  

“嗯，”Remus挪动了一下，让自己更舒服些，“请叫我Moony好吗？好久没人这么叫我了。”

 

“Moony.” Sirius leaned forward and kissed his cheek very gently. “I love you.”  

“Moony。”Sirius向前倾，轻轻地亲了亲他的脸颊。“我爱你。”

 

“I love you too.” Remus smiled, slipping into a warm and happy dream.  

“我也爱你。”Remus微笑着，进入了一个温暖而幸福的梦境。

 

Chapter 163: The War: Late Spring 1979 

I would say I'm sorry

If I thought that it would change your mind

But I know that this time

I have said too much

Been too unkind

 

I try to laugh about it

Cover it all up with lies

I try and laugh about it

Hiding the tears in my eyes

Because boys don't cry

Boys don't cry

 They stayed in the room above the pub for two more nights. Marlene came back on the first evening, as good as her word, and brought a potion for Remus’s chest infection. She prescribed rest, but the next day Remus was going mad from being cooped up(關), so he and Sirius caught the bus to the beach.

It was too cool for swimming, being April, so they just walked. It was very quiet out of the tourist season, so it was ok to hold hands, too, for a little bit.

Remus closed his eyes and breathed in the sea air, smiling. The sky was grey, threatening rain, but wind was fresh on his face, and he felt better.

“When we get home,” Sirius said brightly, “We’ll go to Ollivander’s to get you a new wand.”

“Great.” Remus nodded. He hadn’t done any magic since he’d been back. Didn’t trust himself.

“That’s if Mary’ll hold off(延後) on your welcome home party,” Sirius chuckled, “She was going bonkers worrying. I think she must still have a thing for you.”

“Ha.” Remus replied.

“And Lily, obviously. She really wants to tell you something, but she said to wait until we’re all in the same room.”

“Mm.”

“Can’t wait for everything to be back to normal. Back to being marauders, eh?”

“Yeah.”

“D’you remember what sort of wand Lyall had? Maybe you can get the same one again.”

“Nope.”

“Moony?”

“Mm?”

“Are you ok?”

 

 

“Yeah.”

Sirius was quiet after that, and Remus felt guilty. After his brusque debriefing with Moody, Remus hadn’t been in a very talkative mood. He was too anxious to say very much—he didn’t know what Sirius might think of him. On top of that, Remus was struggling more than he thought he would being away from the pack. He was thrilled to be back with Sirius, of course. But at the same time, he felt he was missing something.

Sirius在那之后沉默了，Remus感到内疚。在与Moody的简短汇报后，Remus的心情并不太好。他太焦虑了，没法多说些什么——他不知道Sirius会怎么看待自己。再加上，Remus发现自己在离开狼群后比他想象的更加挣扎。他当然很高兴能和Sirius重聚。但是同时，他感到自己好像缺少了什么。

He didn’t want Sirius to worry, so he did his best to be normal.

“So nice to be outside.” He commented as they walked.

“Are you sure you’re Moony?!” Sirius teased, pretending to be affronted, “ My Moony hates going outside…”

“Well spend a week locked in a dungeon and tell me how you feel about fresh air.” Remus muttered.

Sirius stopped and looked at him, his mouth slightly open, expression hurt. “Sorry.” Remus said, guiltily. He took Sirius’s hand again. “I didn’t mean that.”

 

He’d been doing that a lot, since he got back. Snapping. The smallest thing might set him off, and Sirius was bearing the brunt.自從他回來之後，他就經常這樣做。啪的一聲。最小的事情都可能讓他生氣，而天狼星首當其衝。

“It’s ok.” Sirius replied, shakily. “I shouldn’t make fun of you. After everything.”

“No, I don’t want… you shouldn’t have to treat me like I’m fragile, or something. I just need to get over it, it’s my fault.”

Sirius didn’t say anything for a long time. Remus fought to urge to probe his mind, as the werewolves had taught him to do. He didn’t know if it worked on non-werewolves, but he did know that Sirius had extremely strong feelings about having his private thoughts invaded.天狼星很長一段時間沒有說話。萊姆斯竭力想要探究他的思想，就像狼人教他做的那樣。他不知道這對非狼人是否有效，但他確實知道天狼星對自己的私人思想被入侵有著極其強烈的感覺。

“You don’t have to ‘get over it’.” Sirius said, finally. “But it might help to talk.”

“About what?”

“What happened, in the pack.”

“I‘ve talked about that already; I’ve told Moody everything. You were there.”

“Remus.” Sirius raised his voice slightly. “Come on. You didn’t tell him everything . I know you.”

“Everything important to the war effort.” Remus said, firmly.

“So nothing else happened then?!” Sirius let go of Remus’s hand, because his own hands were suddenly in the air, gesturing wildly. “They just locked up up, then let you go, and it was all fine ??”

“Obviously not.” Remus folded his arms, suddenly feeling the chill. “But no one wants to hear about things like that.”

“Maybe I want to hear.”

“Here we go.” Remus rolled his eyes, “Well then? What do you want to hear?!”

“Why did you go in the first place? Why didn’t you come back to me?”

“I knew it.” Remus said, tightening his arms around his body, “You’re angry with me!”

“I’m not, I’m just...”

“That's what you meant, wasn’t it?! The night I got back!”

“What are you talking about?!”

“You know! ‘ You came back ’ that's what you said! You thought I wasn’t going to! You thought I’d left for good!” Remus was shouting, all of a sudden, and he wasn’t sure how he’d got so angry, but now it was just burning him up.

“Of course I didn’t!” Sirius shouted back, “I just… I just didn’t know what to think! Do you know what it was like for me?? You just disappeared, and no one would let me look for you, and fucking Ferox wouldn’t tell me anything, and James was a mess with his parents getting sick, and the fucking Prewetts...”

Sirius didn’t shout often, not as often as Remus anyway, and his voice got very high very quickly, suddenly sounding incredibly posh and haughty. This just riled Remus up even more.天狼星並不經常喊叫，至少不像萊姆斯那麼頻繁，而且他的聲音很快就變得非常高，突然聽起來令人難以置信的時髦和傲慢。這讓萊姆斯更加憤怒。

 

“Oh poor you ! Jesus, I thought you’d got over this spoilt brat routine by now! We’re not twelve anymore Black!”「哦， 可憐的你！天啊，我以為你現在已經擺脫了這個被寵壞的孩子的習慣了！我們不再是十二歲的人了

Sirius’s mouth fell open now, utterly affronted. Remus felt more alive than he had in days, but he wasn’t ever going to admit it. He just kept shouting, shattering the peace of the empty beach, voice ringing against dark wet sand.天狼星現在張大了嘴，完全被冒犯了。萊姆斯感覺自己比這幾天更有活力，但他永遠不會承認這一點。他只是不停地喊叫，打破了空蕩蕩的海灘的寧靜，聲音在漆黑潮濕的沙子上迴響。

“I’m sorry if I’m not like you, I don’t want to whinge about every unpleasant thing that happens to me!”

 

“Like what?!” Sirius yelled, cheeks red, and eyes bright, so that for a moment Remus questioned whether Sirius was enjoying this just as much as he was, “Go on, if I’m so selfish and terrible, please enlighten me on the true nature of noble suffering, Remus, I know that's your speciality!”

“如果我不像你，我很抱歉，我不想抱怨發生在我身上的每一件不愉快的事情！”

 

“像什麼？！”天狼星臉頰通紅，眼睛明亮，大喊道，以至於有那麼一會兒，萊姆斯懷疑小天狼星是否也像他一樣享受這一切，「繼續吧，如果我是如此自私和可怕，請告訴我什麼是真正的本質。

“Oh up yours !”

 

“Well? Why didn’t you come back?!”

“Because they were fucking with my head!” Remus practically screamed this, the waves seemed to crash louder and seagulls cried overhead in answer.

He was ablaze, filled with words that came tumbling out of him as soon as he thought them,

“因为他们在搞乱我的脑子！”Remus几乎是尖叫着说的，海浪似乎也更响了，海鸥在头顶上回应着。

他满身是火，充满了思绪，刚一想到就倾泻而出，

“Because I never felt like that before - they were my family, and we were all the same, we were all at home there, and it was… it felt like the only place in the world I was meant to be! All that, it was all that except…” and now tears were coming, scalding hot, “Except he was there, that fucking… that monster. He was so evil, so… and I was scared, and I wanted to come home, to you, I did, but I couldn’t just leave them with a man like that. And they could… they could do things I didn’t know I could do, they taught me… And I just didn’t know who I was anymore.”

He wiped his face, the tears dripping off his chin. He looked Sirius in the eye. “I don’t know who I am.”

They stared each other out, as the echoes subsided. Remus was breathing heavily, his cheeks hot, but he felt good. Relieved.

Finally, Sirius spoke. He put his hands in his pockets and squinted around, off into the distance. He smiled,

“因为我从来没有过这样的感觉——他们是我的家人，我们都是一样的，我们都在那儿感到归属，就好像那是我唯一该待的地方！所有那些，都是这样的，只是……”眼泪现在也涌了出来，烫得让人心疼，“只是他在那儿，那该死的……那个怪物。他是如此邪恶，如此……我很害怕，我想回家，回到你身边，我确实想，但我不能就这样离开他们，面对那样的人。而且他们可以……他们可以做我不知道我能做的事，他们教我……我只是再也不知道自己是谁了。”

他擦了擦脸上的泪水，眼泪从下巴上滴落下来。他直视着Sirius的眼睛。“我不知道我是谁。”

他们互相凝视着，回声渐渐平息。Remus气喘吁吁，脸颊发热，但他感觉很好。心里松了一口气。

最终，Sirius开口了。他把手插进口袋里，眯着眼睛看向远方，露出了笑容，

“Why is it always this beach eh?”

“What?” Remus blinked, caught off guard. Sirius looked at him, eyes twinkling.

“Why is this the beach where we have all the big revelations?”

“Maybe we’re just dramatic.”

“How very dare you!” Sirius was smirking, and Remus laughed, despite himself. “Well?” Sirius said, “Feel better?”

“Yeah. Oi, wait a minute, did you just deliberately try to piss me off??”

“No…” Sirius looked away again, piously, “Not at first…”

“Dickhead.”

“It worked.”

Remus didn’t respond, because he really did feel better, and he didn’t want to fight again. They kept walking, and eventually reached roughly the spot where they had all camped out two years ago. The wind was kicking up, sweeping across the grassy sand dunes, and the campsite was empty. It didn’t look like the same place.

Remus没有回答，因为他确实感觉好多了，也不想再争吵了。他们继续走，最终到达了大约两年前他们露营的地方。风在吹拂，扫过草地上的沙丘，营地已经空了。看起来不像是原来的地方了。

“Think we’ll ever come back here?” Remus asked, hands deep in his pockets to stop his coat flapping in the breeze.“你觉得我们会再回来这里吗？”Remus问，双手深深地插在口袋里，以防外套在风中飞扬。

“I hope so.” Sirius replied. “It’s my patronus thought, this place.”

“我希望会。”Sirius回答，“这是我护符的思绪，这个地方。”

“Is it?” Remus looked at him, surprised.

“Haven’t had any better summers yet.”

“Fair point.”

“Oi, look!” Sirius wandered off towards a group of rocks, bent and picked up a big long stick. He waggled it at Remus, grinning, “Want to play fetch?”

Remus laughed,

“Go on then.”

Sirius glanced around covertly to confirm they were alone, then transformed into Padfoot. Remus was grateful—he’d done enough talking now, and it was a relief to just play with canine-Sirius for a few hours. The big black dog raced up and down the beach, chased waves, played fetch, and generally had an excellent time, and on the bus back to the pub both of them fell asleep.Sirius偷偷环顾四周，确认他们是独自一人，然后变成了Padfoot。Remus很感激——他已经说够多了，现在能和犬形Sirius玩几个小时是一种解脱。那只大黑狗在海滩上奔跑，追逐海浪，玩接球游戏，总之玩得很开心。在回旅馆的公共汽车上，他们俩都睡着了。

It wasn’t until much later that night, after dinner (oh, how Remus had missed real food! Mashed potato! Sausages! Gravy!), when they were getting ready for bed, that Sirius brought it up again.直到那晚晚些时候，晚餐后（哦，Remus多么想念真正的食物！土豆泥！香肠！肉汁！），他们准备上床时，Sirius才再次提起这件事。

Remus was yawning as he crawled under the covers, and Sirius got in beside him quietly, turning off the bedside lamp. The bed was so narrow that Remus had to lie with his back to the wall, an arm around Sirius’s waist, and a face full of silky black hair, which he didn’t really mind.Remus在爬进被窝时打着哈欠，Sirius静静地在他身边躺下，关掉了床头灯。床很窄，Remus不得不背靠墙，手臂环绕着Sirius的腰，脸上贴满了柔软的黑发，这让他并不介意。

“I know who you are.” Sirius whispered into the empty quiet of the dark bedroom.

“Hm?” Remus asked, sleepy and confused. Sirius pulled Remus’s hand to his mouth and kissed his fingers.

“You said you don’t know who you are any more. But I do. You’re my Moony. Always will be. Ok?”

“Ok, Padfoot.”

For now it was enough.

* * *

Moody got word to them that they could return to their flat, provided that Remus kept a low profile for a while - he didn’t specify for how long. This meant no Order meetings and no missions - he wasn’t even allowed to visit the Potters’ house. For all intents and purposes, Remus Lupin had vanished off the face of the earth a month ago and never returned.  

穆迪通知他们可以回到他们的公寓，只要Remus保持低调——他没有具体说明多长时间。这意味着不能参加凤凰社的会议，也不能执行任务——他甚至不被允许去波特家的住所。从各方面来看，Remus Lupin已经从地球上消失了一个月，未曾返回。

 

“I bet he just wants to wait for the next full moon to get the all clear.” Sirius suggested. “Anyway, you deserve a break.”  

“我敢打赌他只是想等到下一个满月再确认你没问题。”Sirius建议道。“无论如何，你也该休息一下了。”

 

Remus just shrugged.  

Remus只是耸了耸肩。

 

“Served my purpose now, I s’pose. They don’t know what to do with me.”  

“现在我大概已经完成了我的目的。他们不知道该怎么处理我。”

 

“Don’t talk about yourself like that.” Sirius snapped irritably. They’d been stuck in the same tiny room for too long.  

“别这么说自己。”Sirius不耐烦地说道。他们已经在同一个狭小的房间里待了太久。

 

They apparated back, and Remus began to feel a bit more himself once he was really home. The flat was immaculately tidy - apparently Sirius had a lot of nervous energy while Remus was away - but otherwise everything was as it should be.  

他们使用闪现术回到了公寓，Remus一回到真正的家里，感觉自己稍微恢复了一些。公寓里一尘不染——显然Sirius在Remus离开期间有很多紧张的精力——但其他方面一切都很正常。

 

No one was supposed to know that Remus was back, but of course James had told Lily and Peter, and Marlene had told Mary, so the first evening they were home everyone came over at once. Luckily Lily had the presence of mind to bring food, because Sirius had nothing at all in the house.  

没有人应该知道Remus回来了，但当然James已经告诉了Lily和Peter，Marlene也告诉了Mary，所以他们回家的第一晚，大家都一下子来了。幸运的是，Lily有足够的头脑带来了食物，因为Sirius家里什么都没有。

 

“Been eating at the Potters’.” He mumbled, bashfully.  

“在波特家吃饭。”他羞怯地嘟囔道。

 

Remus and Lily went into the kitchen to set out sausage rolls, cheese and pineapple sticks and sandwiches out on plates. Lily set down her carrier bags on the counter and flung herself at him, arms around his waist, head on his shoulder. Remus patted her gently, when he realised she was crying,  

Remus和Lily走进厨房，准备把香肠卷、奶酪和菠萝棒以及三明治摆在盘子里。Lily把她的购物袋放在台面上，扑到他身上，手臂绕在他的腰间，头靠在他的肩膀上。Remus轻轻拍了拍她，当他意识到她在哭泣时，

 

“Argh, Lily, please don’t…”  

“啊，Lily，拜托不要……”

 

“I’m sorry!” She sobbed, her voice thick and muffled against his best woolly jumper, “I just… I didn’t think I’d ever see you again!”  

“对不起！”她抽泣着说，声音在他最好的毛衣上变得沉重而模糊，“我只是……我没想到我会再见到你！”

 

“God, you’re making more of a fuss than Padfoot.”  

“天哪，你比Padfoot还要大惊小怪。”

 

“Not likely,” She laughed, stepping back and wiping her cheeks, “He was a complete wreck while you were gone - you wouldn’t have recognised him. I don’t think he even combed his hair.”  

“不会的，”她笑着说，退后一步擦干她的脸颊，“他在你离开期间完全是一副乱七八糟的样子——你根本认不出他。我觉得他甚至没梳过头发。”

 

Remus felt a horrid stab of guilt. He didn’t want to be gloomy in front of Lily, though, so he just gave her a breezy smile and said,  

Remus感到一阵刺痛的内疚。他不想在Lily面前显得忧郁，于是他只是给她一个轻松的微笑，说道，

 

“So you’ve got something to tell me?”  

“所以你有事要告诉我？”

 

“Oh! Er… when everyone’s here…” Lily was blushing, and suddenly focussed very hard on chopping up carrots for the dips she’d brought.  

“哦！呃……当大家都在的时候……”Lily脸红了，突然专注地切胡萝卜，为她带来的蘸料准备。

 

It didn’t take much longer for Marlene and Peter to arrive, straight from work. Peter even had a briefcase now, with his initials on it. Apparently he’d been doing all right for himself at the Ministry, and Remus tried not to be too bitter about it.  

Marlene和Peter很快就从工作中赶到。Peter甚至有了一个公文包，上面有他的名字首字母。显然他在魔法部做得不错，Remus尽量不对此感到太过心怀不满。

 

Marlene insisted on giving Remus another once-over in the bedroom, checking his ankle, which was good as new, and his chest, which was much better.  

Marlene坚持在卧室里再给Remus检查一次，检查他的脚踝，现在恢复得像新的一样，还有他的胸部，情况好多了。

 

“Honestly, I can’t believe you’re still smoking.” She tutted as he lit up, buttoning his shirt. “You know it kills muggles.”  

“说真的，我不能相信你还在抽烟。”她不满地说，当他点燃烟时，扣上他的衬衫。“你知道这会杀死麻瓜。”

 

“Die young and leave a pretty corpse,” he winked at her, trying not to think about Hope’s lung cancer. The fact was that smoking and drinking were the only things he felt like doing these days.  

“年轻死去，留下个漂亮的尸体，”他对她眨了眨眼，努力不去想Hope的肺癌。事实是，抽烟和喝酒是他现在唯一感兴趣的事情。

 

Mary burst into tears as soon as she arrived, and leapt into Remus’s arms.  

Mary一到就泪如雨下，扑到Remus的怀里。

 

“You absolute bastard!” She whispered into his neck, “I could kill you!”  

“你这个绝对的混蛋！”她在他脖子里低声说，“我真想杀了你！”

 

“Missed you too.” Remus said, squeezing her back.  

“我也很想你。”Remus说，紧紧拥抱着她。

 

Once they were all together, James and Sirius took over as hosts, which was a relief. Remus felt suddenly very tired, and sat on the couch like a ghost, watching his friends chatter and laugh and act like nineteen year olds for once. He just smiled at them all. Smiled, and drank.  

当大家都在一起时，James和Sirius开始接待客人，这让人松了一口气。Remus突然感到非常疲倦，像幽灵一样坐在沙发上，看着他的朋友们聊天、笑声，像十九岁的年轻人一样行事。他只是对他们都微笑。微笑着，喝酒。

 

Eventually, the food was nothing but crumbs, and the booze was running low too. James, Sirius and Peter had the idea to summon beers from neighbouring flats via the window, and the girls were trying to convince them not to, when Remus remembered what Lily had said in the kitchen.  

最后，食物只剩下碎屑，酒也快喝光了。James、Sirius和Peter想出了从邻居的公寓通过窗户召唤啤酒的主意，女孩们试图劝阻他们时，Remus记起了Lily在厨房里说的话。

 

“What’s your news?”  

“你有什么消息？”

 

“Oh!” Lily’s head turned sharply towards him. She was standing by the window, arms around James’s shoulders, trying to pull him away from his thieving attempts. James turned too and they shared a sheepish look.  

“哦！”Lily的头猛地转向他。她站在窗边，手臂绕着James的肩膀，试图把他拉离偷酒的尝试。James也转过身，他们交换了一个羞怯的眼神。

“Everyone,” James cleared his throat, “Um. Lily and I have something to--”  
“大家，”James清了清
喉咙，“呃。Lily和我有些事要——”
“Oh Christ!” Mary said, suddenly, from where she was lounging in the armchair opposite Remus, legs flung over the arm. “Lily, I thought you were on the pill!”  
“哦，天啊！”Mary突然从她对着Remus的扶手椅上说，腿搭在扶手上。“Lily，我以为你在吃避孕药！”
“Mary!” Lily turned an even deeper shade of red, “ Not that!”  
“Mary！”Lily的脸色更红了，“不是那个！”
“Phew!” Mary laughed, closing her eyes, “Because we’re not even twenty yet, we’re much too young to be thinking about--”  
“唷！”Mary笑着，闭上了眼睛，“因为我们还不到二十岁，我们还太年轻去考虑——”
“We’re getting married!” Lily yelped, quickly, before Mary could make any further comment.  
“我们要结婚了！”Lily急忙喊道，在Mary能再说什么之前。
You could have heard a quill drop.  
你能听到笔掉落的声音。
Remus blinked a few times, watching James’s face to check that it wasn’t all a big joke. But he was beaming down at Lily with so much love and pride in those soppy brown eyes of his, that Remus simply smiled to himself. Yes , he thought. Of course . Remus’s second thought was Sirius, who had been half leaning out of the window when the announcement broke. Now he spun around so fast he smacked his head on the frame.  
Remus眨了几下眼睛，看着James的脸，确认这不是一个大的玩笑。但他用满是爱和自豪的眼神看着Lily，Remus只是对自己微笑。是的，他想。当然了。Remus的第二个念头是Sirius，他在宣布时半靠在窗户上。现在他转过身来，速度之快把头撞在了窗框上。
“You what?!” He stared at James, a strange mix of surprise and displeasure plain on his face.  
“你说什么？！”他盯着James，脸上明显写着惊讶和不满的混合表情。
“Yep,” James grinned, oblivious, wrapping his arms around Lily. “She asked - and who was I to refuse?”  
“对，”James咧嘴笑道，毫不知情地搂着Lily。“她求婚了——我能拒绝吗？”
“ You asked?” Marlene poked Lily, “Bloody feminist hero, Evans.”  
“你求婚了？”Marlene戳了戳Lily，“真是个了不起的女权英雄，Evans。”
“It was a bit more mutual than that,” Lily laughed, “We were just talking, and--”  
“这有点更为相互，”Lily笑道，“我们只是聊天，然后——”
“But we only just left school.” Sirius said, his voice dull.  
“但我们才刚刚离开学校。”Sirius说，声音有些沉闷。
“A year ago,” Peter reminded him, straightening the lapels on his green-checked blazer.  
“一年前，”Peter提醒他，整理着他绿色格子西装的翻领。
“You don’t even live together.” Sirius folded his arms. Remus felt trapped - these were all the warning signs that Black was getting ready for a fight - except for once it was not Remus he was fighting with.  
“你们甚至没有同居。”Sirius抱着胳膊。Remus感到被困住了——这些都是Black准备开战的警告信号——只不过这次他不是和Remus争吵。
“I’m going to move in with James’s family for a bit,” Lily said, her smile faltering as she realised that Sirius was not sharing their joy.  
“我打算暂时搬去James家里，”Lily说，脸上的笑容有些动摇，因为她意识到Sirius并没有分享他们的喜悦。
“Yeah, you know how much they love having her around,” James said. His voice had hardened, and he kept his arms around Lily as if protecting her. “She’s been amazing while they’ve not been well.”  
“是的，你知道他们多么喜欢她在身边，”James说。他的声音变得坚硬，搂着Lily就像保护她一样。“在他们身体不适的时候，她表现得非常棒。”
“Have you really thought about this though?!”  
“你们真的考虑过这个问题吗？！”
“I’m sure they have, Black, chill out.” Mary said, trying to lighten the mood. She got up, “Shall I pop out and see if we can get some cheap fizz? This deserves a toast!”  
“我相信他们考虑过了，Black，冷静点。”Mary说，试图缓解气氛。她站起来，“我去外面看看能不能弄到便宜的气泡酒？这值得庆祝！”
“Yeah!” Marlene stood up too. She hugged Lily then kissed James on the cheek, “Congratulations you two!”  
“好！”Marlene也站起来了。她拥抱了Lily，然后亲吻了James的脸颊，“祝贺你们两个！”
“Congratulations!” Peter raised his beer can drunkenly.  
“祝贺你们！”Peter醉醺醺地举起了他的啤酒罐。
“Have you all gone mental?!” Sirius almost shouted. Remus caught the look of dismay on Lily’s face and decided that was enough. He stood up.  
“你们都疯了吗？！”Sirius几乎喊道。Remus看到Lily脸上的失望表情，决定够了。他站了起来。
“Padfoot.” he said, firmly, using that voice, “ No .”  
“Padfoot。”他坚定地说，使用了那种语气，“不。”
Sirius glared at him now. His mouth shut abruptly, and he tossed his head like a moody teenage girl, before pushing past them all and marching out of the room. The bedroom door slammed.  
Sirius现在瞪着他。他的嘴巴突然闭合，像个情绪化的少女一样甩了甩头，然后推开他们，走出了房间。卧室的门猛地关上了。
“Silly sod.” Mary said breezily. “I’ll nip out to the shop - coming Marls?”  
“真傻。”Mary轻松地说。“我去商店一趟——Marls，你来吗？”
“I’d better…” Remus jerked his head in the direction of the bedroom and followed after Sirius.  
“我最好……”Remus指了指卧室的方向，然后跟在Sirius后面。
He didn’t knock, just walked right in. After all; it was his flat too. Sirius was ready for him, and started as soon as Remus closed the door behind himself.  
他没有敲门，直接走了进去。毕竟，这也是他的公寓。Sirius已经做好了准备，Remus关上门后，他立即开始了。
“You can’t possibly tell me that you think this is a good idea!” He ranted, pacing the room. “Prongs is being ridiculous! We’re too young, there’s a bloody war on, his mum and dad are ill, and he wants to have a fucking wedding?!”  
“你不可能告诉我你认为这是个好主意！”他咆哮道，在房间里踱步。“Prongs太荒谬了！我们还太年轻，这他妈的战争正在进行，他的父母生病了，他还想搞个婚礼？！”
“I think those all sound like good enough reasons to have a fucking wedding, actually.” Remus sighed, sitting down on the bed.  
“实际上，我认为这些都是举行婚礼的足够理由。”Remus叹了口气，坐在床上。
“You’re joking! We’re kids!”  
“你是在开玩笑！我们还是孩子！”
“They’re in love.” Remus tried reasoning. Sirius laughed - a mean, cruel laugh -  
“他们相爱。”Remus试图讲理。Sirius笑了——是一种刻薄、残酷的笑声——
“Oh, and you’re going to start waxing lyrical about love, are you Moony?!”  
“哦，你要开始说教关于爱情的事了，Moony？！”
“Watch it.” Remus stood up, sharply, using his height to tower over Sirius. “I don’t know why you’re being such a tosser to James and Lily, but I’m not going to sit here and have you fling bitchy little comments at me.”  
“注意点。”Remus直起身来，用他的身高俯视Sirius。“我不知道你为什么对James和Lily那么不耐烦，但我不打算坐在这里让你对我抛出刻薄的评论。”
Sirius was about to retort, when the door swung open again, and this time James barrelled in, angrier than Remus had ever seen him.  
Sirius正要反驳时，门再次猛地打开，这一次James闯了进来，比Remus见过的任何时候都要愤怒。
“You dick!”
 He yelled, “What the fuck are you playing at?! Moony, don’t defend him!”  
“你个混蛋！”他吼道，“你到底在搞什么？！Moony，不要替他辩护！”
“I’m not!” Remus said, stepping away and crossing his arms, “I was saying the same!”  
“我不是！”Remus说，退后一步，交叉着双臂，“我也是这么说的！”
“Well?!” James rounded on Sirius again, “Want to explain yourself?!”  
“那呢？！”James再次转向Sirius，“想解释一下吗？！”
“No, I want you to explain yourself!” Sirius snapped, “What the fuck?! You’re getting married, just like that? I know you’ve had this mad thing for Evans since you were twelve, but bloody hell! What’s the rush?!”  
“不，我要你解释！”Sirius咆哮道，“什么鬼？！你们就这样结婚了？我知道你从十二岁开始就对Evans有这种疯狂的感觉，但该死的，急什么？！”
“It’s not a ‘mad thing’!” James shouted, “I love her! I’ve been in love with her forever, as you well know!”  
“这不是‘疯狂的感觉’！”James喊道，“我爱她！我一直爱她，正如你所知道的！”
“So you have to get married all of a sudden?!”  
“所以你们突然要结婚吗？！”
“I want to get married, and it’s not sudden! We’ve been talking about it for ages.”  
“我想结婚，这不是突然的！我们谈论了很久。”
“First I’ve heard of it!”  
“这是我第一次听说！”
“Yeah, well, I don’t have to tell you everything! I didn’t want to say anything until Moony was back.”  
“是的，我不必把所有事情都告诉你！我不想在Moony回来之前说任何事。”
“What about your parents?! What do they think??” Sirius was losing steam, but obviously not willing to stop being angry yet.  
“你的父母呢？！他们怎么看？？”Sirius的愤怒逐渐减退，但显然还不愿意停止愤怒。
“They’re thrilled, actually! They love Lily! And I thought you did too! You’re my best friend, I thought you’d be supportive!”  
“他们实际上很高兴！他们喜欢Lily！我还以为你也喜欢！你是我最好的朋友，我以为你会支持！”
“Oh!” Sirius’s eyes gleamed, “Because you’ve always been so supportive of my relationships!”  
“哦！”Sirius的眼睛闪闪发光，“因为你总是如此支持我的感情生活！”
James’s eyes flickered towards Remus, then back again - it was only a split second, but Remus definitely felt it. What the hell was that about?  
James的眼睛闪向Remus，然后又回到Sirius身上——这只是一个瞬间，但Remus明显感觉到了。这到底是怎么回事？
“You know that’s not...” James said, fiercely, jaw clenched.  
“你知道这不是……”James激烈地说，咬紧了牙关。
Remus took that as his cue to leave. Whatever was going on between the two of them, he didn’t want any part in it. He went straight to the kitchen and looked under the sink. There was a bottle of firewhisky he’d put there after the last party for safekeeping. He uncorked it and took a long swig.  
Remus把这当作离开的信号。不管他们之间发生了什么，他都不想参与其中。他直接去了厨房，查看水槽下的地方。那里有一瓶他在上次聚会后为了保存安全放在那里了的firewhisky。他拔开瓶塞，喝了一大口。
“Remus?”  
“Remus？”
He almost choked as Lily entered the kitchen. She laughed and reached out a hand,  
当Lily走进厨房时，他几乎呛住了。她笑了，伸出手来，
“Give us some, then? Mum always said never to drink alone.”  
“那给我一点吧？妈妈总是说不要一个人喝酒。”
He laughed, wiping his mouth with the back of his sleeve and handing her the bottle. She drank deeply, and didn’t wince - Remus watched her with awe and thought that if you had to marry a girl, then she’d better be exactly like Lily Evans.  
他笑了，用袖子擦了擦嘴，把瓶子递给她。她痛痛快快地喝了一大口，丝毫没有皱眉——Remus惊叹地看着她，心想如果必须娶一个女孩，那她最好就像Lily Evans一样。
“Sorry I ruined your homecoming party.” She said, forlorn.  
“对不起我毁了你的归来派对。”她伤感地说。
“You didn’t,” Remus shook his head, “Sorry about Sirius.”  
“你没有，”Remus摇了摇头，“对不起Sirius。”
“Oh, don’t be silly - you’re not his keeper.”  
“哦，别傻了——你不是他的保姆。”
“He’s being a prat.”  
“他在发疯。”
“He’s just jealous, I knew he would be.” She laughed, catching Remus’s look, “Not like that , Moony, it’s obvious he’s madly in love with you, I mean he’s worried he’s going to lose his best friend.”  
“他只是嫉妒，我知道他会这样。”她笑着，看到Remus的表情，“不是那样的，Moony，很明显他疯狂地爱着你，我的意思是他担心会失去他的最好的朋友。”
“You’re probably right.”  
“你说的可能对。”
“I’m usually right.” She raised an eyebrow at him, and he laughed again.  
“我通常是对的。”她挑了挑眉，他再次笑了。
“Congratulations,” he said, sincerely, this time. “I think it’s brilliant.”  
“恭喜你，”他说，真诚地这次。“我觉得这很棒。”
“Thanks, love,” she smiled softly. “It is a bit rushed, I know - my parents went spare; Pet was only married last year, and she’s three years older than me. But… you know Euphemia and Monty aren’t well?”  
“谢谢，亲爱的，”她柔和地笑道。“我知道有点急——我的父母很生气；Pet去年才结婚，她比我大三岁。但……你知道Euphemia和Monty身体不好吗？”
“Yeah, I wish I could go and see them, but… Moody’s orders, y’know.”  
“是的，我希望我能去看看他们，但……Moody的命令，你知道的。”
“They understand.” She touched his arm gently, “Anyway, they’re really… I mean, they’re not suffering or anything, but they’re very old. I knew how much it meant to James - having them see him with me. They want to know he’ll be ok when they’re gone.”  
“他们理解的。”她轻轻地触碰他的手臂，“反正，他们真的……我是说，他们并没有痛苦，但他们年纪很大。我知道对James来说这意味着多少——让他们看到他和我在一起。他们想知道他在他们离开后会好好的。”
Maybe he’d had too much to drink, but tears pricked in Remus’s eyes unexpectedly. He covered his face and groaned,  
也许他喝多了，但Remus的眼睛突然湿润了。他捂住脸，呻吟道，
“Jesus Christ, Evans, can I have five minutes without an emotional breakdown?!”  
“天哪，Evans，我能有五分钟时间没有情感崩溃吗？！”
She laughed and hugged him again,  
她笑了，再次拥抱了他，
“Lovely boy.”  
“好孩子。”
“We’ve baa-ack!” Mary and Marlene sang as they stumbled into the flat once more, giggling merrily.  
“我们回来了！”Mary和Marlene唱道，再次跌跌撞撞地进入公寓，开心地笑着。
“Hide that, quick!” Lily gave Remus his bottle back, and he stowed it back under the sink behind a box of laundry powder.  
“快把它藏起来！”Lily把瓶子还给了Remus，他把瓶子放回水槽下的洗衣粉盒后面。
By the time Mary had poured everyone a glass (or a mug) of babycham (“the closest thing to champagne you can get in Soho after midnight”), James and Sirius had re-emerged from the bedroom, both still red faced, but apparently on better terms. Sirius joined in the toast, at least, and even gave Lily a polite kiss on the cheek.  
当Mary给每个人倒上一杯（或一个杯子）babycham（“午夜后在Soho能买到的最接近香槟的酒”）时，James和Sirius已经从卧室重新出现了，脸色仍然红润，但显然关系有所改善。Sirius至少参加了祝酒，甚至给了Lily一个礼貌的吻在脸颊上。


 

Still, the atmosphere had changed, and everyone left within the next hour or so - Marlene was staying over at Mary’s in Croydon, Peter went back with James and Lily. When the door closed for the last time at one in the morning, Remus felt like curling up on the couch, covering his head and staying there for a week.
不过，气氛已经改变了，每个人在接下来的一个小时左右离开了——Marlene去Mary在Croydon的家过夜，Peter和James、Lily一起回去了。当早上一点钟最后一次关门时，Remus感觉像是蜷缩在沙发上，盖住头，待上一个星期。

Sirius didn’t say much, just did a bit of perfunctory tidying up, then went to the bathroom. Remus heard the lock click shut and took the opportunity for one last glass of whisky and a cigarette before bed. He felt grimy; his teeth were furry, his throat scorched and his eyes itching, but it suited his mood.
Sirius没说多少，只是做了一些敷衍的收拾，然后去了浴室。Remus听到锁的咔嚓声，抓住机会再喝一杯威士忌，抽一支烟再上床。他感觉很脏；牙齿发黏，喉咙灼热，眼睛发痒，但这正适合他的心情。

He didn’t feel like talking anymore; especially if it led to another fight. He even considered just falling asleep on the couch. But then - that might just mean a fight in the morning, and he already knew he was going to be hungover then. Only one thing for it.
他不想再说话了；尤其是如果这会引发另一场争吵。他甚至考虑直接在沙发上睡觉。但那样的话——早上可能就会吵架，而他已经知道那时自己会宿醉。只有一种解决办法。

Sirius unclicked the door and Remus heard him padding through to the bedroom. Maybe if Remus took his time brushing his teeth Sirius would doze off before he got there - they’d both had a lot to drink. He hoisted himself off the couch and headed for the bathroom.
Sirius解开了门锁，Remus听到他轻步走向卧室。也许如果Remus慢慢刷牙，Sirius会在他到达之前打盹——他们俩都喝了很多酒。他从沙发上站起来，朝浴室走去。

Remus washed his face and the back of his neck in cold water, and stared at himself in the medicine cabinet mirror above the sink. He’d been avoiding his reflection since he got back. He looked like shit; still too hollow in the cheeks, eyes darker and wider somehow. He was pale from too much drink and his scars stood out like silver wires under his skin.
Remus用冷水洗了洗脸和脖子，盯着水槽上方药柜镜子里的自己。从回来以来，他一直避免看自己的倒影。他看起来很糟糕；脸颊仍然太凹陷，眼睛不知为何更暗更大。他因为喝酒过多而脸色苍白，伤疤在皮肤下像银色的线一样突出。

Did he have that same haunted look that they had; the pack? Had he caught that feral glint, that rangy wolfish smirk? Or was he just seeing the angry, frightened care home kid that has always been there?
他有着和他们一样的那种被困扰的表情吗；那个狼群？他捕捉到了那种野性光芒，那种瘦削的狼样笑容吗？还是他只是看到了那个一直存在的愤怒、害怕的养老院孩子？

He sighed, defeated, and flicked off the light, going to bed at last.
他叹了口气，感到沮丧，关掉了灯，终于上了床。

The lights were still on, and Sirius was under the covers, only his silky black hair visible, draped over the pillow. He always slept like that; hidden. With a flash of clarity Remus was reminded of the child Sirius had once been; alone in a big house full of family who couldn’t understand him, the weight of expectation pressing in on all sides.
灯还亮着，Sirius在被子下，只有他丝滑的黑发显露出来，垂在枕头上。他总是这样睡；隐藏起来。Remus突然清晰地想起了曾经的Sirius；在一个充满不了解他的家人的大房子里孤独，期待的重压四面八方地逼近他。

Remus turned his loneliness inwards; always had. But Sirius - he pushed his loneliness out, and let other people take it from him. So he got a bit possessive sometimes, a bit panicky - so what? Nobody was perfect. Softening, Remus got in beside him and very gently stroked Sirius’s hair.
Remus把孤独向内转；一直都是这样。但Sirius——他把孤独推向外界，让其他人从他身上拿走。所以他有时候会变得有点占有欲，有点惊慌——那又怎样？没有人是完美的。Remus的心情软化了，他躺在Sirius身边，非常温柔地抚摸着Sirius的头发。

“All right?” He whispered.
“还好吗？”他低声问道。

Sirius’s head bobbed in a sort of nod under the duvet, and he reached out to wind his arms around Remus’s waist. Remus sighed, relieved. It felt so good to be back in his own bed. They could always just not fight, he thought to himself. “Love you,” he murmured, kissing the top of Sirius’s head.
Sirius的头在被子下点了点，伸手把胳膊绕在Remus的腰上。Remus叹了口气，感到松了口气。回到自己的床上感觉真好。他想，至少可以不再争吵。“爱你，”他低声说道，吻了吻Sirius的头顶。

Sirius’s arms grew tighter around him, and soon enough they both fell asleep.
Sirius的胳膊紧紧环绕着他，不久之后他们俩都睡着了。

Chapter 164: The War: Summer 1979Notes:BEFORE YOU BEGIN: The lyrics used in this chapter are from a song called 'Rex's Blues', which was written/performed in 1977 by Townes Van Zandt. So it counts as an era appropriate song for this fic - BUT, the version which I first heard, and which I had in mind when writing this chapter is by Jolie Holland.

Chapter TextRide the blue wind, high and free

She'll lead you down through misery

Leave you low, come time to go

Alone and low, as low can be.

 

 

Lily and James’s wedding was set for late September. It was going to be a relatively small affair - order members and school friends, mostly - and it would be held at the Potters’ estate. They were hoping the weather would be nice enough to have it in the gardens, but even if it rained there was plenty of room indoors.
莉莉和詹姆斯的婚礼定在了九月底。这将是一个相对小型的聚会——主要是成员和学校朋友——将在波特家族的庄园举行。他们希望天气好到可以在花园里举行，但即使下雨，室内也有足够的空间。

After making such a fuss on the night of Remus’s homecoming, Sirius was clearly very embarrassed by how he’d acted, and made up for it by doing pretty much anything James and Lily asked of him. He ordered dress robes for the boys in Madam Malkin’s, went to pick up the rings from the jeweller, and offered his entire record collection up for use at the reception.
在Remus回家的那晚大闹了一番之后，Sirius显然对自己的行为感到非常尴尬，他通过几乎满足詹姆斯和莉莉的所有要求来弥补。他为男孩们在Madam Malkin’s定制了礼服，去珠宝店取了戒指，并把自己的整个唱片收藏提供给婚礼接待使用。

Remus, who had never been to a wedding, tried to stay well back. As far as he knew, his duty as groomsman was to show up, keep Sirius’s head from exploding, and make sure none of Lily’s muggle family saw anything too scarring.
从未参加过婚礼的Remus尽量保持距离。就他所知，作为伴郎的职责就是出现，确保Sirius不会爆炸，确保莉莉的麻瓜家人不会看到任何过于刺激的东西。

Sirius’s most bonkers act of contrition was to hand-write all of the invitations. His talent for calligraphy was still one of Sirius’s darkest secrets, (and Remus’s favourite thing to tease him about) but he was determined to be the perfect Best Man, so he sat hunched over the dining table one afternoon and worked at it for a solid four hours.
Sirius最疯狂的悔过行为是亲手书写所有的邀请函。他的书法才华仍然是Sirius最黑暗的秘密之一（也是Remus最喜欢拿来调侃他的事），但他决心成为完美的最佳男伴，所以他在一个下午蜷缩在餐桌旁，认真地写了整整四个小时。

“Fifty-eight!” Sirius said, triumphantly, finishing the last invitation with a flourish of his quill.
“五十八张！”Sirius得意地说，完成了最后一张邀请函，挥了挥他的羽毛笔。

“Well done,” Remus said, glancing over the top of his newspaper, “Ahh, look at your pretty handwriting! So dainty!”
“做得好，”Remus说，瞥了一眼报纸上方，“啊，看看你的漂亮字迹！真精致！”

“Better than your chicken-scratch!” Sirius poked his tongue out.
“比你的乱七八糟好！”Sirius吐了吐舌头。

“Just don’t tell anyone you did them,” Remus advised, “Or you’ll start getting requests.”
“只要别告诉别人是你做的，”Remus建议道，“否则你会开始收到请求。”

“Do you really think they’re that good?” Sirius asked, holding one up to the light to inspect the delicate whorls of black ink.
“你真的觉得它们那么好吗？”Sirius问道，把一张邀请函举到光线下，检查那精致的黑色墨迹。

“They’re gorgeous. Really.” Remus said, fondly.
“真的很漂亮。”Remus温柔地说。

“Well, this is the only time I’m doing it,” Sirius sniffed, tidying up the pile, “This is the one and only wedding I will ever support.”
“好吧，这是我唯一一次这样做，”Sirius嗤嗤地说道，整理堆积的邀请函，“这是我唯一支持的婚礼。”

“What if Mary got married? Or Pete?”
“那如果Mary结婚了呢？或者Pete呢？”

“I’d show up and get drunk, but secretly I would hate every minute.”
“我会出现然后喝醉，但心里会恨每一分钟。”

“Very reasonable,” Remus nodded.
“很合理，”Remus点了点头。

“Another thing you can blame the noble and most ancient house of cack for.” Sirius said, “Do you know how many engagement dinners and weddings I’ve been to? Ugh.” He shuddered visibly. “So I’m sorry, Moony, but you’ll never make an honest man of me.”
“这是你可以怪罪于那个高贵且古老的家族的另一件事。”Sirius说道，“你知道我参加过多少次订婚晚宴和婚礼吗？呃。”他明显地颤抖了一下。“所以抱歉，Moony，但你永远无法让我成为一个诚实的男人。”

“Oh, and I was just about to propose,” Remus said dryly, getting up, “Tea?”
“哦，我正打算求婚呢，”Remus干巴巴地说道，站起身，“要喝茶吗？”

“Please.” Sirius nodded, rubbing his sore knuckles.
“请。”Sirius点了点头，揉着酸痛的指关节。

Remus entered the kitchen, tapping the kettle with his wand - they’d gone to get it the same day as the dress robes. It had reminded Remus a bit of going to get his school shoes as a boy; Ollivander measured him and then hummed and ahhed and muttered to himself under his breath. He’d rummaged about in the stock room and bought out box after box of wands for Remus to try. Eventually they’d settled on a flexible cypress number, with a unicorn hair core.
Remus走进厨房，用魔杖敲了敲水壶——他们是在同一天去取的，礼服也是那天买的。这让Remus想起了小时候去买校鞋的情景；Ollivander量了他的尺寸，然后哼哼唧唧地自言自语。他在仓库里翻找，拿出一盒又一盒的魔杖让Remus试。最终他们决定了一个灵活的柏木魔杖，里面有独角兽的毛发。

He’d been trying to get used to it. It wasn’t the same as Lyall’s wand (which he’d found out had been blackthorn, with a kelpie hair core) - it seemed less rigid, more inclined to do what Remus told it. Which meant that Remus had to remember not to put too much force behind his magic, as he’d grown used to doing.
他一直在尝试适应它。它和Lyall的魔杖不一样（他发现Lyall的魔杖是黑刺树的，里面有海妖的毛发）——它似乎不那么僵硬，更容易按照Remus的指示行事。这意味着Remus必须记住不要对魔法施加过多的力量，因为他已经习惯了这样做。

He watched the steam rising from the kettle spout thoughtfully.
他若有所思地看着水壶嘴冒出的蒸汽。

“It would really piss them off, though,” Remus called through the thin wall.
“不过，这真的会让他们恼火，”Remus透过薄墙说道。

“What? Who?”
“什么？谁？”

“Your family.” Remus said, plonking two tea bags into two mugs, “If you married a bloke. A half-blood, werewolf, bloke.”
“你的家人。”Remus说道，把两个茶包放进两个杯子里，“如果你嫁给一个家伙。一个混血，狼人，家伙。”

“Don’t forget poor!” Sirius laughed. “Merlin, just imagine sending my mother an invitation to that!”
“别忘了还很穷！”Sirius笑道。“梅林，想象一下给我母亲寄那样的邀请函！”

“Imagine sending anyone an invitation to that,” Remus snorted, “Christ, I can already hear James making horrible puns about the honey moon.” He carried the mugs of tea back through to the living room, setting them down on the coffee table.
“想象一下给任何人寄那样的邀请函，”Remus哼了一声，“天哪，我已经能听到James在对蜜月做恶劣的双关了。”他把茶杯端回到客厅，放在咖啡桌上。

“I’ve already been engaged once, I really don’t fancy doing it again.” Sirius said, with an air of finality.
“我已经订过一次婚了，真的不想再这样做一次。”Sirius带着一种最终的语气说道。

“Oh yeah, you’re welcome for that.” Remus winked.
“哦，是的，别客气。”Remus眨了眨眼。

* * *

Well, if I had a nickel, I'd find a game

If I won a dollar, I'd make it rain

If it rained an ocean, I'd drink it dry

And lay me down dissatisfied.

 

It's legs to walk and thoughts to fly

Eyes to laugh and lips to cry

A restless tongue to classify

All born to grow and grown to die

 

The wedding planning was actually a very welcome distraction, as the summer opened up before them. Sirius, James, Peter and Lily were often called out urgently for order missions, and the list of missing read out at the beginning of every meeting was growing longer.
婚礼计划实际上是一个非常受欢迎的分心，因为夏天在他们面前展开。Sirius、James、Peter和Lily经常被紧急召唤去执行任务，每次会议开始时读出的失踪人员名单越来越长。

Benjy Fenwick, who had been working with Moody for years was horribly murdered - they couldn’t even have a casket at his funeral; there wasn’t enough of him left. Darius Barebones - who Remus had never liked, but who was nonetheless a dedicated agent - was found flayed alive in his own office at the ministry. They were miserable times.
Benjy Fenwick，一个与Moody合作多年的老手，被残忍杀害——他们甚至无法为他的葬礼准备棺材；他剩下的东西不够多。Darius Barebones——Remus曾经不喜欢，但他仍然是一个尽职尽责的特工——被发现活活剥皮在他自己的办公室里。这是令人痛苦的时光。

Remus was finally allowed to return to the Order officially after two full moons had passed without incident. Ferox believed that the split Castor had instigated meant that Greyback’s pack was too weak to be much use to Voldemort - and somehow everyone had got the idea that Remus was responsible for this.
在经过两个完整的满月没有发生意外后，Remus终于被正式允许回到密谋者组织中。Ferox相信，Castor制造的分裂意味着Greyback的狼群已经太弱，无法对伏地魔有多大帮助——而且不知怎么的，每个人都觉得Remus对此负有责任。

Dumbledore actually shook his hand, saying, “You’ve done us all so proud, Mr Lupin.”
邓布利多实际上握了握他的手，说：“你让我们所有人都感到骄傲，Lupin先生。”

Danny McKinnon had even apologised to him - Remus thought that was probably Marlene’s doing.
Danny McKinnon甚至向他道了歉——Remus认为那可能是Marlene的安排。

By July, the Order’s numbers had dwindled so much that even Remus was getting sent out - and he was often paired with Mary, which made things bearable. Their general orders were to backup Aurors by standing guard, or managing surveillance on some of the better known death eaters. Remus and Mary spent a lot of time sitting in cafes together, or hiding behind bushes.
到了七月，密谋者组织的成员数量减少得如此严重，连Remus也被派出去执行任务——而且他经常和Mary搭档，这让事情变得可以忍受。他们的主要任务是通过站岗来支持Aurors，或者对一些较为知名的食死徒进行监视。Remus和Mary花了很多时间一起坐在咖啡馆里，或者藏在灌木丛后面。

One such mission involved following a death eater called Travers, who was known to drink at a wizard’s pub near Stoke Mandeville. They were just supposed to see where he went; how he spent an average day. Caradoc Dearborn, a hero of the Order of the Phoenix, had last been seen entering the pub, but no one had heard from him since.
其中一个任务涉及跟踪一个叫Travers的食死徒，他以在斯托克曼德维尔附近的一家巫师酒吧喝酒而闻名。他们的任务只是看他去了哪里；他怎么度过一个普通的一天。Caradoc Dearborn，凤凰社的英雄，最后一次被看到进入酒吧，但之后没有人再听到他的消息。

“You came back,” Mary whispered, as they waited in the backseat of an ancient Ford Cortina, parked across the road. “So maybe Caradoc will too.”
“你回来了，”Mary低声说道，他们在一辆古老的Ford Cortina的后座上等待，车子停在对面。“所以也许Caradoc也会回来。”

“I hope so.” Remus replied.
“我希望如此。”Remus回答道。

“I just can’t bear not knowing.” Mary’s leg was shaking nervously, “I keep imagining… and what they did to the Prewetts!”
“我实在无法忍受不知道。”Mary的腿紧张地颤抖着，“我一直在想象……他们对Prewetts做了什么！”

“Don’t think about it.” He put a hand on her knee to keep her still, and searched for a distraction, “Hey, did Lily decide on flowers in the end?”
“别想这些。”他把手放在她的膝盖上以保持她的稳定，寻找转移注意力的方法，“嘿，莉莉最后决定花卉了吗？”

“Anything except lillies or petunias,” Mary said, with a grateful smile, “Me and Marls are wearing lavender, so whatever goes with that.”
“除了百合或矮牵牛花之外的任何花，”Mary带着感激的微笑说道，“我和Marls穿的是熏衣草色的，所以随便什么搭配。”

“Sounds nice.” Remus nodded, though he couldn’t for the life of him picture the colour lavender - was it purple? Or blue?
“听起来不错。”Remus点了点头，虽然他实在想象不出熏衣草的颜色——是紫色吗？还是蓝色？

“I’m so glad you’re here with me, Remus,” Mary said, “I could only ever get my defensive spells right in your study groups.”
“我很高兴你和我在一起，Remus，”Mary说道，“我只在你的学习小组里才能把防御咒语做对。”

“We’re just here to watch. Everything will be alright.”
“我们只是来观察的。一切都会好的。”

They waited for hours, and when Travers finally came out, staggering and reeking of spirits, he was not alone. Remus had to nudge Mary, who’d nodded off, lolling against his shoulder.
他们等了几个小时，当Travers终于出来时，他踉跄着，满身是酒气，他并不孤单。Remus不得不轻轻碰了碰Mary，她已经打瞌睡，靠在他的肩膀上。

“Oh shit!” She whispered, her voice hoarse with terror, “Six of them, Remus!”
“哦，糟了！”她低声说道，声音因恐惧而沙哑，“六个人，Remus！”

Remus held a finger to his lips, signalling her to be quiet. He watched the death eaters spill out of the pub onto the quiet country road. He recognised a few of them from pictures Moody had shown the order - Karkaroff, Dolohov, and Alecto Carrow. Two of them he recognised by scent.
Remus伸出手指示意她保持安静。他看着食死徒们从酒吧溢出到宁静的乡村道路上。他认出了几个人，是Moody在组织中展示过的照片中的人——Karkaroff、Dolohov和Alecto Carrow。他通过气味也认出了其中的两个人。

“Fuck.” He said under his breath, “It’s Mulciber and Snape.”
“该死。”他低声说道，“是Mulciber和Snape。”

“No!” Mary grabbed his arm, peering to look, “Oh my god! We’ve got to get out of here!”
“不！”Mary抓住他的胳膊，探头去看，“天啊！我们得离开这里！”

The problem was, the car was just for show, and anyway neither of them could drive.
问题是，这辆车只是摆设，而且他们两个都不会开车。

“Stay calm,” Remus said, “We’ll just wait for them to go - I bet they’re going to app--”
“保持冷静，”Remus说道，“我们只要等他们走——我敢打赌他们会使用——”

“Oooh, muggles!” Alecto Carrow, a stocky, horsey faced young woman pointed gleefully at the Cortina, “Let’s play!”
“哦，麻瓜！”Alecto Carrow，一个魁梧的、长着马脸的年轻女人兴奋地指着Cortina车，“让我们玩吧！”

“Fuck.” Remus said again. The six dark robed wizards glided towards them, drawing their wands. Remus pulled his out too, Mary following suit. “Quick,” he said, “Let’s get out, maybe we can--”
“该死。”Remus再次说道。六个穿着黑袍的巫师滑向他们，抽出魔杖。Remus也抽出了魔杖，Mary跟着他的动作。“快，”他说，“我们离开，或许我们可以——”

“APERIO!” Travers whipped his wand at the car, and the doors ripped away, wrenched from their hinges with a horrible, crunching metal sound.
“开门！”Travers用魔杖对准车子，车门被撕开，随着可怕的金属咯吱声从铰链上扯下。

Mary screamed, but she kept her wand up. Remus pushed her backwards, shielding her with his body and hoping they could get out the other side. He’d feel much better with a car between them and the six dangerous killers.
Mary尖叫了一声，但她保持着魔杖。Remus把她推向后面，用身体挡住她，希望他们能从另一边逃出去。他希望有辆车在他们和这六个危险的杀手之间，这样他会感觉好一些。

“They’re not muggles!” One of the death eaters said, gleefully - was it Mulciber? “They’re mudbloods!”
“他们不是麻瓜！”一个食死徒兴奋地说道——是Mulciber吗？“他们是泥巴种！”

“Ahh even better!” Alecto cackled.
“啊，那更好！”Alecto咯咯笑道。

“Impedimenta!” Remus yelled, as he and Mary got free of the car.
“减速咒！”Remus大喊，随着他和Mary从车子里出来。

“Loony Lupin, is that you?!” Snape now, “What luck! Sectumsc --”
“疯疯癫癫的Lupin，是你吗？！”现在是Snape，“真幸运！撕裂咒——”

“LANGLOCK!” Mary cried, with so much emotion that Remus heard the click as Snape’s teeth snapped shut, and he clutched his jaw with both hands, unable to speak.
“封嘴咒！”Mary大喊，情绪激动到Remus听到Snape的牙齿咬合的声音，他双手捂住下巴，无法说话。

“Crucio!” Mulciber shouted, aiming at Mary, but Remus jumped in quickly with a shield charm.
“酷刑咒！”Mulciber大喊，瞄准Mary，但Remus迅速用盾牌咒防护住了她。

“Stupefy!” Mary got Mulciber, but the others were still advancing, even Snape, though he was still disabled.
“麻痹咒！”Mary击中了Mulciber，但其他人仍在逼近，甚至Snape，虽然他还被封嘴咒困住。

“Quick, Mary!” Remus grabbed her hand, and they disapparated, landing just about on their feet in the middle of Cardiff town centre. Luckily it was so late there were no muggles about - except for a very drunk looking tramp, who rubbed his eyes at the sight of them.
“快点，Mary！”Remus抓住她的手，他们消失了，最终在卡迪夫市中心落地。幸运的是，现在很晚了，没有麻瓜在附近——只有一个看起来非常醉醺醺的流浪汉，他揉了揉眼睛看见了他们。

“Where are we?” Mary asked, shakily, her eyes huge.
“我们在哪里？”Mary颤抖着问，眼睛睁得很大。

“Doesn’t matter,” Remus panted, “We need to do it again - six times to be safe, remember?”
“没关系，”Remus喘息着，“我们需要再做一次——安全起见，六次，记得吗？”

“Right, yes, ok,” she nodded, clearly in shock. Remus realised he’d have to do it again. He squeezed her hand once more, and they were in Essex, only a mile or so from St Edmund’s. The landing was even harder this time, and Remus had to bend forward to stop his head spinning.
“对，是的，好的，”她点了点头，明显处于震惊之中。Remus意识到他还得再做一次。他再次握紧她的手，他们出现在埃塞克斯，只离St Edmund’s大约一英里。这次落地更加困难，Remus不得不弯下腰来阻止头晕。

“Again.” He grunted.
“再来一次。”他咕哝道。

“I’ll do it.” Mary took his hand, and dragged him whirling through space once more. Next they had arrived in an industrial estate somewhere, trucks and lorries parked outside big warehouses, glowing under faint yellow street lamps. “Ugh,” Mary pressed a hand to her forehead, wincing, “Ok, again.”
“我来做。”Mary握住他的手，再次将他拖过空间。接着他们来到了一个工业区，卡车和货车停在大仓库外面，黄昏的街灯下微弱发光。“呃，”Mary把手按在额头上，皱起了眉头，“好，再来一次。”

The fourth time, they had to cling to each other to stop from falling over. The fifth time, they landed on their backs - thankfully in a soft grassy field somewhere in the Lake District. Remus hauled himself up, his legs practically jelly, his head spinning. He pulled Mary up too, and she stumbled against him, woozy.
第四次，他们不得不互相抓住才能防止摔倒。第五次，他们仰面落地——幸好是在湖区的一个柔软的草地上。Remus艰难地站起来，腿几乎变成了果冻，头晕目眩。他也拉起Mary，她踉跄着靠在他身上，迷糊不清。

“I’m going to be sick.” She said, then promptly turned around and threw up. Remus rubbed her back gently, blinking sweat out of his eyes,
“我要呕吐了。”她说，然后立刻转过身去呕吐。Remus轻轻拍了拍她的背，眨了眨眼中的汗水，

“You’re doing so well,” he choked, “Just once more…”
“你做得很好，”他哽咽道，“再一次……”

It was almost dawn when they got back to London, exhausted and queasy, heads throbbing. Mary stayed at their flat, saying she couldn’t go to her mum’s looking so rough. Sirius summoned Moody through the fireplace, and he arrived immediately, interrogating Remus and Mary who sat shaking on the couch, wrapped in blankets and sipping weak tea.
当他们回到伦敦时，天快要亮了，疲惫不堪，恶心，头痛。Mary留在他们的公寓里，说她不能以这么糟糕的状态去她妈妈那里。Sirius通过壁炉召唤了Moody，他立刻到达，对坐在沙发上、裹着毯子、喝着淡茶的Remus和Mary进行了审问。

“Excellent work, you two,” He nodded to them before leaving, “Keep it up, and you’ll both make it through.”
“干得好，你们两个，”他在离开之前对他们点了点头，“继续保持，你们俩都会活下来的。”

Mary burst into tears.
Mary突然哭了起来。

-------

 

It was bad all round. Remus and Mary’s narrow escape that night was not their last, nor were they the only ones to find themselves in a tight spot. Remus frequently had to leave the room while James and Sirius recounted their own misadventures, and Peter had developed a bit of a stammer whenever anyone mentioned death eaters.
情况很糟糕。Remus和Mary那晚的勉强逃脱并不是他们最后一次遇险，他们也不是唯一陷入困境的人。Remus经常不得不离开房间，当James和Sirius讲述他们自己的冒险经历时，Peter也因为每次提到食死徒而有些结巴。

All told, the wedding felt like the only bright spot in their rapidly shortening futures. They’d certainly had their fill of funerals.
总的来说，婚礼感觉是他们逐渐缩短的未来中唯一的亮点。他们确实已经受够了葬礼。

So, in late August when Remus and Sirius had an unexpected visit from Lily, who was in a state of panic, they immediately assumed the worst.
所以，在八月底，当Remus和Sirius突然接到处于恐慌状态的Lily的拜访时，他们立刻以为出了大事。

“Oh, thank god you’re here!” She said, bursting into their living room. Her hair was up in a messy ponytail, and she looked over tired and overworked.
“哦，谢天谢地你们在这里！”她说，冲进他们的客厅。她的头发扎成了一个乱糟糟的马尾辫，看起来非常疲惫和过度工作。

“What’s the matter?!” Remus stood up, quickly.
“怎么了？！”Remus立刻站起来。

“Not you,” she brushed him aside dismissively, then turned to Sirius, “I need you!”
“不是你，”她不屑一顾地推开他，然后转向Sirius，“我需要你！”

“What’s up?” Sirius looked just as puzzled as Remus. Lily never needed his help. “Is it Prongs?”
“怎么了？”Sirius看起来和Remus一样困惑。Lily从不需要他的帮助。“是Prongs吗？”

“Yes, the bastard.”
“是的，那混蛋。”

The worry left Sirius’s face and he smirked.
Sirius脸上的担忧消失了，他露出了笑容。

“Look, if this is about the stag do…”
“听着，如果这是关于单身派对的事……”

“Oh, I don’t care what you lot get up to,” she tutted impatiently, “This is much, much more important.”
“哦，我不在乎你们搞什么，”她不耐烦地嘟囔道，“这件事更重要得多。”

“I’ll put the kettle on, then…” Remus said, disappearing into the kitchen. He could still hear them through the wall.
“那我去烧水……”Remus说着，消失在厨房里。他还能透过墙壁听到他们的声音。

“So, what is it then?” Sirius was asking.
“那到底是什么？”Sirius问道。

“I can’t dance.”
“我不会跳舞。”

“What?!” He scoffed, “I’ve seen you dance.”
“什么？！”他嗤笑道，“我见过你跳舞。”

“Yeah, I can shake my hips to pop music, but I’m talking about proper dancing. With steps, and James leading, and counting ‘one two three’, the whole shebang!”
“是的，我能随着流行音乐扭动腰部，但我说的是正规的舞蹈。包括步伐，还有James带领着，数着‘一二三’，整个大场面！”

Sirius was laughing, now.
Sirius现在在笑。

“It’s going to be that sort of wedding? Prongs practically promised me there would be modern music!”
“这会是那种婚礼？Prongs几乎向我保证会有现代音乐！”

“There will be!” Lily returned, defensively, “But… well it’s traditional to have a first dance, and I think his mum would like to see it. I agreed to do it ages ago; I thought ‘fine, we’ll just stick on something soppy and just sort of cling on to each other for a few minutes’, but that wanker just casually mentioned the fact that he’s been ballroom dancing since he could walk!”
“会有的！”Lily辩解道，“但是……首先跳舞是传统，我觉得他的妈妈想看看。我早就同意做这个；我想‘好吧，我们就随便放首柔情的歌曲，互相依偎几分钟’，但那个混蛋却随意提到他从会走路时就开始学芭蕾舞！”

Sirius snorted,
Sirius哼了一声，

“Yep, sounds about right. Look, Evans, you’re the one bonkers enough to marry a pureblood, you’ve made your bed now.”
“是的，听起来很对。听着，Evans，你是唯一一个疯狂到要嫁给纯血巫师的人，你现在只能自食其果。”

“But you have to help me!”
“但你得帮我！”

“Ohhhh no…”
“哦，不……”

Remus re-entered the room with a tray balancing three mugs of tea.
Remus带着托盘进了房间，托盘上放着三杯茶。

“Go on,” he said, slyly, “I’d love to see this.”
“继续，”他说，狡黠地，“我很想看看这个。”

“Absolutely not.” Sirius folded his arms decisively. “Get Pete to do it! He’s a pureblood too!”
“绝对不行。”Sirius果断地抱着胳膊说。“让Pete来做吧！他也是纯血巫师！”

“He’s too short,” Lily shook her head, “And… well I don’t want to be mean, but he’s very clumsy, and I don’t want him stepping on my feet while I’m breaking in my wedding shoes. They’re white satin. Please, Sirius? I’m a fast learner, I swear, you just need to get me through one dance.”
“他太矮了，”Lily摇摇头，“而且……我不想说得太过分，但他非常笨拙，我不想他在我磨合婚鞋时踩到我的脚。它们是白色缎子做的。请，Sirius？我学习很快，我发誓，你只需要让我完成一次舞蹈。”

“Moony!” Sirius pleaded, as Remus sat beside him, “Save me!”
“Moony！”Sirius恳求道，当Remus坐在他旁边时，“救救我！”

“I think you should do it,” Remus replied, sipping his tea, “For James.”
“我觉得你应该做这个，”Remus一边喝茶一边回答，“为了James。”

“Yes!” Lily nodded enthusiastically, “For James!”
“是的！”Lily热情地点头，“为了James！”

“He doesn’t deserve me.” Sirius grumbled. “Fine. One lesson. A waltz is easy enough. Moony, go away.”
“他不配我。”Sirius抱怨道。“好吧。一次课。华尔兹很简单。Moony，走开。”

“Absolutely not.” Remus sat down on the couch, settling in for the show, “I’ve never seen you waltz before, and I’m not going to miss it.”
“绝对不行。”Remus坐在沙发上，准备看戏，“我从没见过你跳华尔兹，我不想错过。”

Sirius held up his middle finger, then tossed his head and turned to Lily.
Sirius竖起中指，然后甩了甩头，转向Lily。

“Right,” he said, haughtily, “Give me your hands…”
“好，”他说，傲慢地，“把你的手给我……”

As amusing as it first seemed, fifteen minutes into the lesson Remus was completely entranced.
最初看起来很有趣，但十五分钟的课程后，Remus完全被吸引住了。

Sirius worked hard to hide his pure-bloodedness most of the time. Ever since they were kids, Remus had been aware of Sirius mimicking his accent, and sometimes even his mannerisms in an effort to seem less privileged. He slouched, he swore, he wore ripped jeans and leather jackets. But here was proof that Sirius Orion Black, heir to the most prestigious and ruthless magical house in Britain, had not completely forgotten his roots.
Sirius大多数时间都努力隐藏自己的纯血身份。从他们还是孩子时起，Remus就知道Sirius模仿他的口音，有时甚至模仿他的举止，以显得不那么优越。他耷拉着肩膀，咒骂，穿着破旧的牛仔裤和皮夹克。但现在这证明了Sirius Orion Black，英国最著名和最残酷的魔法家族的继承人，并没有完全忘记自己的根源。

At the time, Remus found it charming - as he found almost everything about Sirius charming. He held his head high, showing off his long white neck and regal jawline. He took Lily in his arms like a real gentleman - like a courtly prince. When he moved, he glided; not a step out of place. He was the picture of incorruptible nobility. It drove Remus mad.
当时，Remus觉得这很迷人——就像他觉得几乎所有关于Sirius的事物都很迷人一样。他昂首挺胸，展示着自己修长的白色脖颈和高贵的下巴线。他像真正的绅士——像一位宫廷王子一样拥抱Lily。当他移动时，他优雅地滑动；步伐完美无缺。他是不可腐蚀的贵族的典范。这让Remus发疯。

“Thank you so much!” Lily gushed, rather pink cheeked after two hours of dancing, “I have to get back, or he’ll wonder where I am, but I seriously owe you one, Black.”
“非常感谢！”Lily在两小时的舞蹈后，脸颊微红地说，“我得回去了，不然他会想我去哪了，但我真的欠你一个人情，Black。”

“Oh, just your first born will do.” Sirius waved a hand gallantly, grinning. He looked like he’d enjoyed himself too.
“哦，随便你第一个孩子吧。”Sirius风度翩翩地挥挥手，笑着。他看起来也玩得很开心。

Lily grabbed her bag, kissed them both on the cheek, and left via the fireplace. Sirius turned to Remus, who was still watching him from the couch. He pulled a face,
Lily抓起她的包，亲吻了他们俩的脸颊，然后通过壁炉离开。Sirius转向Remus，后者仍然在沙发上看着他。他做了个鬼脸，

“Go on then, take the piss…”
“来吧，嘲笑我……”

“Never,” Remus smirked, getting up and walking over to him, “I love how fancy you are.”
“绝不，”Remus带着笑意站起来，走向他，“我喜欢你那么优雅。”

He slung his arms over Sirius’s shoulders and leaned in for a kiss. It went on a long time; Sirius pressing against him, affectionately at first, but then with more eagerness as the kiss deepened. Since Remus had returned from the pack things had been a bit dry in that department - not that they’d been monks, exactly, but on the rare instances neither of them was exhausted, sex had become pretty functional.
他把手臂搭在Sirius的肩膀上，倾身亲吻。这个吻持续了很久；Sirius贴着他，开始是亲昵的，但随着吻的加深变得更加急切。自从Remus从狼群回来后，在那方面的情况有些干涩——并不是说他们完全是僧侣，但在很少有的他们都不疲惫的时刻，性爱变得相当功能化。

Sirius grinned against Remus’s lips, tilting his head back. Remus’s hands were on Sirius’s waist, and his thumbs found their way under the waistband of his jeans, stroking circles on his hip bones that made Sirius squirm.
Sirius在Remus的唇上咧嘴一笑，抬起了头。Remus的手放在Sirius的腰部，他的拇指滑入了牛仔裤的腰带下，抚摸着Sirius的髋骨，让Sirius扭动不安。

Remus grinned too, pulling back,
Remus也咧嘴一笑，退后了一点，

“Wanna dance?”
“想跳舞吗？”

 

* * *

So tell my baby, I said so long.

Tell my mother, I did no wrong -

Tell my brother to watch his own

And tell my friends to mourn me none

Three days after the dancing lesson, Sirius and Remus found themselves with a miraculously free Sunday. There were no missions; there were no meetings; there were no wedding-catastrophes to solve. And as far as Remus knew, neither of them were in mortal peril. So they spent it the best way they could think of - sleeping.
舞蹈课程后的第三天，Sirius和Remus意外地迎来了一个空闲的星期天。没有任务；没有会议；没有婚礼灾难需要解决。就Remus所知，他们俩都没有面临生死威胁。因此，他们用他们能想到的最好方式度过了这个日子——睡觉。
They had the longest lie in since Hogwarts had finished, and it must have been almost twelve by the time Sirius got up to let the post-owl in - it had been angrily pecking at their bedroom window for fifteen minutes.
他们享受了自霍格沃茨结束以来最长的赖床时间，Sirius起床去接收邮鸽时，已经快到十二点了——邮鸽愤怒地在他们的卧室窗户上啄了十五分钟。
The owl hooted indignantly, circled the room, then dropped the Daily Prophet on Remus’s legs, while Sirius rifled around in the bedside table for a knut to give it. Remus rolled over, groaning. He considered covering his head with the duvet and just going back to sleep.
那只邮鸽愤愤地叫了几声，绕着房间飞了一圈，然后把《每日预言报》丢在Remus的腿上，而Sirius则在床头柜里翻找零钱来支付。Remus翻了个身，呻吟了一声。他考虑着把头藏在被子里，继续睡觉。
“Shall I do breakfast?” Sirius asked, picking up the paper. “Breakfast in bed?”
“要我做早餐吗？”Sirius一边拿起报纸一边问。“早餐在床上？”
“Have I told you how much I love you?” Remus smiled, eyes squinting open. He stretched a bit, yawning, “I think we’ve run out of eggs though, so--”
“我告诉过你我有多爱你吗？”Remus微笑着，睁开了眼睛。他伸了个懒腰，打了个哈欠，“不过我觉得我们鸡蛋用完了，所以——”
“Remus!” Sirius grabbed his arm so hard he’d have bruises the next day. He shoved the paper in his face, and Remus - startled and half awake - blinked at the headline.
“Remus！”Sirius抓住他的手臂，用力得让他第二天会有淤青。他把报纸塞到Remus的脸上，Remus惊讶且半醒着，盯着标题。
BLACK HEIR CONFIRMED DEAD
BLACK家族继承人确认死亡
“Eh?” Remus scratched his head, confused, “That's mental, you’re not--"
“嗯？”Remus挠了挠头，困惑地说，“这太疯了，你不是——”
Then it hit him. Oh. He felt so stupid. He looked up at Sirius, who was white as a sheet, eyes wide and pained.
然后他恍若明白了一切。哦。他感到非常愚蠢。他抬头看向Sirius，发现他脸色苍白，眼睛睁得大大的，充满痛苦。
“Oh" Remus said, helplessly reaching out, “Oh no, Sirius…”
“哦，”Remus无助地伸出手，“哦不，Sirius……”

 

I'm chained upon the face of time

Feeling full of foolish rhyme

There ain't no dark till something shines

I'm bound to leave the dark behind

 

 

Chapter 165: The War: Dulce et Decorum est 

Sirius didn’t speak again. At first Remus tried to be understanding; he did everything he could think of. He got up, he made tea, and offered whisky, though Sirius shook his head at that.
Sirius没有再说话。一开始Remus试图表现出理解，他做了他能想到的一切。他起床了，泡了茶，还提供了威士忌，尽管Sirius对此摇了摇头。

He tried talking to him, but Sirius just stared at the article.
他试图跟Sirius说话，但Sirius只是盯着那篇文章。

“Is there anything you need? I’ll get you anything at all, just say…?”
“有什么需要吗？我会去拿任何东西，你只要说……”

Nothing. Sirius just blinked, and began re-reading from the top. There was a photograph of a tall terraced house in a posh part of London, but Remus couldn’t see much else, and Sirius was clutching the newspaper so hard his knuckles turned white.
没有回应。Sirius只是眨了眨眼，然后开始从头再读那篇文章。文章中有一张伦敦高档地区一座高楼的照片，但Remus看不到其他细节，Sirius紧握报纸的手指关节变得苍白。

It was frightening. Remus stood beside him, reached out and touched his shoulder, which was as stiff as a statue’s. Sirius barely reacted. Remus left the room.
这让人感到恐惧。Remus站在他旁边，伸手触碰他的肩膀，肩膀僵硬得像雕像一样。Sirius几乎没有反应。Remus离开了房间。

He went to the front door, where their two jackets were hung, one soft and brown, one silver studded black leather. He reached into the pocket of the leather jacket and pulled out the silver compact mirror inside. He cracked it open,
他走到前门，那里挂着他们的两件外套，一件柔软的棕色外套，一件银色铆钉黑色皮革外套。他伸手进皮夹克的口袋里，拿出里面的银色小镜子。他打开镜子，

“Prongs?! Prongs!”
“Prongs？！Prongs！”

James’s face appeared, dark eyed and concerned,
James的脸出现了，眼睛里充满了担忧，

“Moony?”
“Moony？”

“It's Sirius - something’s happ--”
“是Sirius——发生了什么——”

“I know,” James cut him off, “I just saw the paper. I'll be two minutes.”
“我知道，”James打断了他，“我刚刚看了报纸。我会在两分钟内到。”

He vanished, and the mirror just flashed back Remus’s own distressed face. Still; that was a relief. James would know just what to do.
他消失了，镜子里只闪现出Remus自己焦虑的脸庞。虽然如此，这让人松了口气。James会知道该怎么做。

Remus hated himself for thinking it, but one thing kept blaring in his mind like a foghorn; was it werewolves? Was it Greyback? He needed to read the article; he needed to find out as much as possible.
Remus憎恨自己这样想，但有一件事在他脑海里像雾号一样响起；是狼人吗？是Greyback吗？他需要阅读那篇文章；他需要尽可能多地了解情况。

The fireplace suddenly blazed green, and James stepped through, casting around. He looked at Remus.
火炉突然闪现绿色的火焰，James走了出来，四处张望。他看向Remus。

“Bedroom.” Remus said. James nodded and went straight through without a word.
“卧室。”Remus说。James点了点头，没说话，直接走进了卧室。

Remus closed his eyes, breathing deeply. He could make more tea. He really wanted a proper drink, but it was early in the day, and if Sirius didn’t want any then it would look pretty bad if Remus started on the gin. Fuck. Sirius had been so good when Hope died - how?! At the time Remus had taken it for granted, and now he couldn’t think of a single useful thing to say or do.
Remus闭上眼睛，深呼吸。他可以再泡一壶茶。他真的很想喝点酒，但还很早，如果Sirius不想喝，那么如果Remus开始喝杜松子酒，就会显得很糟糕。真该死。Sirius在Hope死去时表现得如此出色——怎么会？！当时Remus把这一切视为理所当然，现在他想不出任何有用的话或做法。

Regulus was dead. Sirius’s brother was dead.
Regulus死了。Sirius的兄弟死了。

Remus went back into the bedroom. James was sitting on the bed, an arm around Sirius, talking in his ear very low. Sirius looked as though he was only half listening as he stared into space. The paper had been dropped, finally, and lay on the floor, half under the bed.
Remus回到卧室。James坐在床上，一只手搂着Sirius，低声在他耳边说话。Sirius看起来只是半心半意地听着，目光呆滞。报纸终于掉在地上，半躺在床下。

“He made his choice a long time ago,” James was saying, “You mustn't blame yourself, you mustn’t let this--”
“他很久以前就做出了选择，”James说，“你不能责怪自己，你不能让这件事——”

“It doesn’t say what happened.” Sirius said, finally speaking, his voice deeper than usual, “Does anyone know? Your dad, or Moody? Was there an attack last night, or--?”
“上面没有说发生了什么。”Sirius终于开口了，他的声音比平时深沉，“有人知道吗？你父亲，或者Moody？昨晚发生了攻击，还是——？”

James shook his head, arm still around Sirius,
James摇了摇头，手臂依然搂着Sirius，

“No, nothing that would suggest… but of course, we could have missed something. There’s evidence that he - that Voldemort’s been killing death eaters. To um. To keep them in line. Some of them are having doubts, you know.”
“没有，没什么迹象表明……但当然，我们可能错过了什么。现在有证据表明，Voldemort一直在杀死食死徒。为了……为了让他们听话。有些人开始怀疑，你知道的。”

Remus remembered the werewolves’ sinister occupation. Perhaps Greyback hadn’t been enough of a threat for some of the old families. Voldemort had to make an example. That made some sense. Apparently it did to Sirius, too. His eyes focussed, narrowing. He sniffed, though he hadn’t shed one tear, and straightened his back, shrugging off James.
Remus想起了狼人阴险的行为。也许Greyback对一些古老的家族来说还不够威胁。Voldemort必须立个例。这有些道理。显然Sirius也这样认为。他的眼神集中，眯了起来。他吸了吸鼻子，虽然没有流一滴眼泪，还是挺直了背，摆脱了James的搂抱。

“Well then.” He said brusquely, “Got what he deserved, didn’t he.”
“那就好。”他粗鲁地说，“他得到了他应得的，不是吗。”

James glanced back at Remus, and they shared a worried look.
James回头看了一眼Remus，他们交换了一个担忧的眼神。

“Mate,” James said, “He was your brother, it’s ok if--”
“伙计，”James说，“他是你的兄弟，如果——”

“No.” Sirius stood up, sharply, forcing James to get up too, staggering back against the wardrobe, “He wasn’t my brother. They’re not my family. That was always made very clear.”
“不。”Sirius猛地站起身，迫使James也站起身，踉跄地退到衣柜旁，“他不是我的兄弟。他们不是我的家人。这一点一直很清楚。”

“But you--”
“但你——”

“He was my enemy. He’d have killed every one of us without a second thought. So I’m glad he’s gone. One less Death Eater. Good. Brilliant.” He looked at James and Remus, as if challenging them. Neither of them dared. “I’m going to take a shower.” He said, and left the room.
“他是我的敌人。他会毫不犹豫地杀死我们每一个人。所以我很高兴他死了。少了一个食死徒。很好。太棒了。”他看着James和Remus，似乎在挑战他们。他们没有一个人敢说话。“我要去洗个澡。”他说完，离开了房间。

Remus gnawed his lip. James let out a heavy sigh.
Remus咬着嘴唇。James叹了口气。

“At least he’s up, I s’pose. Ugh, Regulus, you little shit. It’s like his final act was to mess with Sirius’s head.”
“至少他起来了，我想。唉，Regulus，你这个小混蛋。感觉他最后的举动就是扰乱Sirius的心情。”

“I know what you mean.” Remus said, trying to see the funny side. “It feels like any time things start getting back to normal another catastrophe hits.”
“我知道你什么意思。”Remus说，试图看到其中的幽默。“感觉每当事情开始回到正常时，另一场灾难就会袭来。”

“Moody would say ‘that’s war, lads’.” James replied, just as humourlessly.
“Moody会说‘这就是战争，伙计们’。”James答道，毫无幽默感。

They were quiet for a bit, and heard the boiler in the bathroom grinding as Sirius turned on the hot water. James ran his fingers through his hair, “It’ll be over for good, one day. I know it will, Moony. We’ve just got to do our best until then.”
他们沉默了一会儿，听到Sirius打开热水时，浴室里的锅炉发出磨擦声。James用手指梳理了一下头发，“总有一天，一切都会结束的。我知道会的，Moony。我们只能尽力而为。”

Remus nodded - and he did feel a bit better. James had that power; he could bring optimism to even the darkest hour.
Remus点了点头——他确实感觉好了一些。James有这种力量；他能在最黑暗的时刻带来乐观。

“How are your folks?” Remus asked, aware that James had left his sick parents very suddenly.
“你家里人怎么样？”Remus问，知道James突然离开了生病的父母。

“They’re ok. Mum’s panicking about flower arrangements. Pete and his mum are visiting, and Lily’s there, so they’re not alone. I didn’t tell them about this… there wasn’t time, and I don’t want to put any more strain on them. They’d want to come over and check on him.”
“他们还好。妈妈对花卉布置很慌张。Pete和他妈妈正在探访，Lily也在那儿，所以他们不会孤单。我没告诉他们这件事……没有时间，我也不想给他们增加更多的压力。他们会想过来看看他。”

“If he’s decided to be like this about it,” Remus said, “Then I think it’s best not to fuss too much.”
“如果他决定这样对待这件事，”Remus说，“那么我觉得最好不要过多干预。”

“You’re right.” James nodded, tiredly. He gave Remus a soft smile, “You were always right, when it came to him, eh?”
“你说得对。”James疲倦地点了点头，给了Remus一个温柔的微笑，“当涉及到他的时候，你总是对的，是吧？”

Remus shrugged, because he thought James was being awfully kind - usually Remus thought he was doing a terrible job taking care of Sirius.
Remus耸了耸肩，因为他觉得James非常善良——通常Remus认为自己在照顾Sirius方面做得很糟糕。

“I tried to contact Moody,” James continued, back to business, “See if he knows anything - but he’s not answering. To be honest -” James lowered his voice, leaning in to confide in Remus, “I don’t think Regulus was particularly high priority for anyone. It’s only because he’s a Black that he ended up in the paper at all.”
“我试图联系Moody，”James继续说，回到正事上，“看看他是否知道些什么——但他没有回应。说实话——”James压低声音，倾身向Remus倾诉，“我不认为Regulus对任何人来说特别重要。之所以他会出现在报纸上，仅仅是因为他是个Black。”

“You think it was Voldemort, though? Who killed him?”
“你认为是Voldemort吗？谁杀了他？”

“Seems likely. He’s getting desperate, dad reckons. No one thought the war would go on this long - it’s not just our side that’s flagging.”
“似乎很有可能。老爸认为他正变得绝望。没有人想到战争会持续这么久——不仅仅是我们这一方在疲软。”

They went through to the living room, and Remus made more tea. They were almost out of PG tips, and he scribbled down a note to pin to their cork noticeboard which hung beside the fridge. Once they’d sat down, Remus finally read the article in the paper.
他们走到客厅，Remus泡了更多的茶。他们几乎用完了PG Tips，他在冰箱旁边的软木公告板上写下了一张便条。坐下后，Remus终于读了报纸上的文章。

***

BLACK HEIR CONFIRMED DEAD

Regulus Arcturus Black II, only child of Orion and Walpurga Black, has today been confirmed dead in a statement issued from the Black family home in Islington. Born in 1961, the heir to the Black house and fortune was eighteen years old. He had recently completed his education at Hogwarts School for Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he distinguished himself as an impeccable student and gifted quidditch player.

Regulus is survived by his parents and his cousins who will attend a private memorial service later in the week. The family have requested privacy.

Regulus Arcturus Black II，Orion和Walpurga Black的独子，今天在Black家族位于Islington的家中发布的声明中确认死亡。生于1961年，Black家族的继承人和财富的继承者年仅18岁。他最近完成了在霍格沃茨魔法与巫术学校的教育，在那里他以无可挑剔的学生和天才魁地奇运动员著称。

 

Regulus的生者包括他的父母和他的表亲们，他们将在本周晚些时候参加一个私人追悼会。家族要求隐私。

***

That was all.There wasn’t much else to say about such a short life, Remus supposed, and what had been said was largely untrue, or at the very least a smudged version of the truth. Remus猜测，对于这样短暂的生命没有太多其他要说的，而且已经说过的内容大多是不真实的，或者至少是模糊的真相。There was no mention at all of how he had died - but Remus thought that was probably a good thing; at least it definitely wasn’t Greyback. The Daily Prophet wouldn’t miss a chance to slip in a bit of werewolf bashing.完全没有提及他是如何去世的——但Remus认为这可能是好事；至少肯定不是Greyback。《预言家日报》不会错过任何一个抨击狼人机会的机会。

 

Sirius came into the living room, hair dripping, towel around his waist. Sirius走进了客厅，头发湿漉漉的，腰间围着一条毛巾。

“I think I’ll work on the bike today.” He said to the room, not really looking at either James or Remus, “Go home, Potter, I’m fine.” And left again, presumably to get dressed. “我想今天去修理摩托车。”他对房间里的人说，实际上并没有看James或Remus，“你们回家吧，Potter，我没事。”然后他又离开了，推测是去换衣服。

James and Remus looked at each other again. James和Remus再次对视。

“Will you be ok?” James asked, “If I go?” “你会没事吧？”James问，“如果我离开的话？”

“Yeah, of course.” “嗯，当然。”

“Ok.” James hoisted himself up out of the armchair and went to the fireplace. “You have the mirror, if you need me. I’ll pop back this evening.” “好的。”James从扶手椅上站起来，走向壁炉。“如果你需要我就用镜子联系我。我今晚会回来。”

“We’ll be fine.” Remus said, getting up to say goodbye. “He just needs a bit of space.” “我们会没事的。”Remus说，起身告别。“他只是需要一点空间。”

“Don’t give it to him.” James said, suddenly, looking Remus in the eye, “Moony, I need you to keep an eye on him, ok? Don’t let him go anywhere. Don’t let him… don’t let him try to get in touch with anyone he’s related to. Except Andromeda, I s’pose.” “不要给他空间。”James突然说，看着Remus的眼睛，“Moony，我需要你留意他，好吗？不要让他去任何地方。不要让他……不要让他试图联系任何他有亲戚关系的人。我想除了Andromeda。”

Remus nodded. That wouldn’t be too hard - Sirius never spoke to his relations. Remus点了点头。那不会太难——Sirius从不与他的亲戚交谈。

“No problem.” “没问题。”

“I mean it. He might do something stupid, and we can’t risk it. Plenty of people still think Sirius is… you know, untrustworthy, because of his name, and something like this is going to…” James pinked the bridge of his nose, as if he was getting a headache. “Bloody Regulus.” He muttered again. “我说真的。他可能会做一些愚蠢的事情，我们不能冒这个险。很多人仍然认为Sirius是……你知道的，不可信的，因为他的名字，这样的事情会……”James捏了捏自己的鼻梁，好像要头痛一样。“该死的Regulus。”他再次嘟囔道。

“I’ll look after him.” Remus said, firmly. “Don’t worry.” “我会照顾他的。”Remus坚定地说。“别担心。”

“Thanks, Moony,” James gripped his arm, and it was as if they were thirteen again; juggling responsibility for their wayward best friend. “谢谢，Moony，”James握住他的胳膊，就好像他们再次回到十三岁；一边负担着对他们调皮的好朋友的责任。

James left, and Sirius reappeared at once, as if he had been waiting. James离开了，Sirius立刻重新出现，好像他一直在等着。

“Were you talking about me?” “你们在谈论我吗？”

“Of course we were,” Remus jutted out his chin, “We’re worried about you.” “当然在谈论你，”Remus抬起下巴，“我们很担心你。”

“What did Prongs say?” “Prongs说了什么？”

“That I’m not to let you out of my sight.” “他让我不要让你离开我的视线。”

Sirius snorted, “You’ll have to come to the garage, then.” Sirius哼了一声，“那你得来车库。”

“Fine,” Remus smiled, breezily, “Lead the way.” He was determined to do as James had instructed - if only because he had no idea how else to be useful. “好的，”Remus笑着说，“你带路。”他决心按照James的指示去做——如果不是因为他不知道还可以如何有用的话。

Remus had only ever been to their shared garage once. There were a few things stored there - mainly Sirius’s quidditch kit and various childhood things which wouldn’t fit in the flat. And the bike, of course. It was a Triumph Bonneville T120, the same as the one Sirius had first fallen in love with years ago at the Potters’. He’d painted a lion on the tank, and done some kind of enlarging spell on the body. Remus只去过他们共用的车库一次。那里存放着一些东西——主要是Sirius的魁地奇装备和各种不适合放在公寓里的童年物品。当然还有摩托车。那是一辆Triumph Bonneville T120，就像Sirius多年前在Potters家第一次爱上的那辆一样。他在油箱上画了一个狮子，并对车身做了一种放大咒语。

Sirius pulled out a rag and polished it, though it was already glistening. Remus stood quietly by, watching. Sirius prodded it with his wand in a few places, oiled it in others. Sirius拿出一块抹布擦拭摩托车，尽管它已经闪闪发光。Remus静静地站在一旁观看。Sirius在几个地方用魔杖戳了戳，又在其他地方加了油。

“When do you think it’ll be finished?” Remus asked, finally. “Ready to ride?” “你觉得什么时候会完成？”Remus终于问道。“准备好骑了吗？”

“Last week,” Sirius replied, not looking up. “上周，”Sirius回答，没抬头。

“You what?” “你说什么？”

“It’s done. Engine runs, flying function works. I’m finished. I think so, anyway, haven’t taken it out yet.” “已经完成了。引擎运行，飞行功能正常。我已经完成了。我想是这样，反正还没出去试过。”

“Why not?” “为什么不？”

Sirius just shrugged, and resumed his polishing. Remus watched him a bit longer. Obviously Sirius didn’t feel like talking, and that was fair enough - Remus understood that better than most people. But he also understood the need to do something when you couldn’t express yourself properly. Sirius只是耸了耸肩，然后继续擦拭摩托车。Remus多看了他一会儿。显然Sirius不想说话，这也没什么不对——Remus比大多数人都更理解这一点。但他也理解当你无法正确表达自己时，做一些事情的必要性。

“Let’s go, then.” He said. Sirius, crouching in front of the bike rocked back on his heels and looked at Remus. “那我们走吧。”他说。Sirius蹲在摩托车前，脚跟向后靠，抬头看着Remus。

“Go? Go where?” “去哪？去哪里？”

“Anywhere you like,” Remus shrugged, “Let’s take it for a spin.” “哪里都行，”Remus耸耸肩，“我们去兜风吧。”

Sirius blinked, “Really? You’ll come with me?” Sirius眨了眨眼，“真的？你会陪我吗？”

“Well I’m hardly going to let you fly off on that deathtrap alone, am I?” Remus laughed, “What sort of boyfriend would I be if I didn’t follow you into the jaws of certain doom?” “我可不会让你一个人骑着那个危险的东西飞走，对吧？”Remus笑道，“如果我不跟着你去面临某种危险，那我算什么样的男朋友？”

The ghost of a smile flickered on Sirius’s face, and he stood up. Sirius脸上闪过一丝微笑，他站了起来。

“Ok, then,” he nodded, “Let’s do it.” “好的，”他点点头，“那我们就去吧。”

Remus had never liked flying. He was competent on a broom these days, but it would never be his chosen form of transportation. He just didn’t like heights very much. Remus从来不喜欢飞行。他现在能熟练使用扫帚，但这永远不会是他选择的交通工具。他只是很不喜欢高处。

Still, he would do almost anything for Sirius, so he clambered onto the back seat and wrapped his arms around Sirius’s waist and took lots of very deep breaths. Sirius actually laughed at him, which was progress, 尽管如此，他愿意为Sirius做几乎任何事情，于是他爬上了后座，环抱着Sirius的腰，深深地吸了几口气。Sirius实际上笑了他，这算是一种进步，

“Moony, are you sure you want to do this? I can feel your heart pounding!” “Moony，你确定你想这样做吗？我能感觉到你的心脏在跳动！”

“Absolutely.” Remus nodded, squeezing his eyes shut as Sirius gripped the handlebars, “I’m sure I’ve faced worse than your driving.” “绝对确定。”Remus点头道，当Sirius握住车把时他紧闭着眼睛，“我确信我曾面对过比你的驾驶更糟糕的情况。”

“Well, if you’re sure…” Sirius revved the engine and Remus clung on even tighter as the seat began to rumble. “好吧，如果你确定……”Sirius轰鸣着发动机，当座椅开始震动时，Remus抓得更紧了。

They went slowly at first, Sirius navigated carefully out of the garage, pointing his wand at the door so that it closed and locked behind them, then trundled slowly along the quiet back street. Then he flicked a switch, and pressed down his foot, and they sped away, Remus still trying not to look, his stomach doing backflips. 一开始他们很慢，Sirius小心翼翼地驶出车库，指着门用魔杖使它关上并锁好，然后沿着安静的后街慢慢前行。然后他按下了一个开关，踩下了脚，他们迅速离开，Remus依然尽量不去看，他的胃翻腾着。

“Here we go!” Sirius called out, and Remus buried his head in Sirius’s shoulder as they lifted off the ground, engine roaring as they gained height. Remus felt himself sliding backwards and yelped as his tailbone hit the metal back of his seat. “来了！”Sirius叫道，当他们离开地面时，Remus把头埋在Sirius的肩膀上，发动机咆哮着随着高度的增加。Remus感觉自己在滑向后面，尖叫着因为尾骨撞到座椅的金属部分。

“Christ…” he whimpered. He really was going to die. Sirius laughed again, “We did it, Moony!” He cried, “Open your eyes you big wuss!” “天啊……”他呜咽道。他真的要死了。Sirius再次笑了，“我们成功了，Moony！”他喊道，“睁开你的眼睛，你这个大胆子！”

Remus did, and instantly regretted it. They were a few hundred feet above the London skyline already; he could see the broad concrete rooftops and beige streets below. The people looked like tadpoles and the cars like beetles and it was such a long way down. Remus睁开了眼睛，立刻后悔了。他们已经在伦敦天际线几百英尺的高度；他可以看到下面广阔的混凝土屋顶和米色的街道。人们看起来像蝌蚪，汽车像甲虫，距离下方的距离实在太远了。

“Oh my god…” he moaned. “哦我的天……”

Sirius cheered happily, “Isn’t it amazing!?” - he was facing forward, eyes on the horizon. It was blue skies as far as the eye could see. The wind rushed past their ears, cold and fresh, and Remus had to squint against the sun. Sirius高兴地欢呼道，“这不是很棒吗！？”——他面朝前方，眼睛盯着地平线。眼睛能看到的都是蓝天。风从他们耳边吹过，寒冷而清新，Remus不得不眯着眼睛迎着阳光。

“‘mazing,” he shouted back, feeling quite sick, but pleased that Sirius was happy. “太棒了，”他回应道，感觉很晕，但看到Sirius很开心也很满足。

They zoomed all over London for the better part of an hour - going as low as Sirius dared along the winding Thames, taking sharp corners around skyscrapers and almost crashing right into the dome of St Paul’s. Finally, the engine began to slow, and Remus noticed they were losing height. He looked down, bravely and squinted at the unfamiliar streets below, 他们在伦敦飞行了将近一个小时——沿着弯曲的泰晤士河尽可能低飞，绕过摩天大楼急转弯，差点撞上圣保罗大教堂的圆顶。最后，发动机开始减速，Remus注意到他们正在下降。他勇敢地往下看，眯着眼睛看着下面陌生的街道，

“Where are we?” “我们在哪里？”

“Islington.” “Islington。”

“What?! Sirius!” “什么？！Sirius！”

Shit! He was supposed to be keeping him away from the Blacks, and now they were heading right for them! 糟糕！他本该将Sirius远离Black家族，现在他们却正朝着他们的方向前进！

“Calm down,” Sirius replied, as they sank even further. They appeared to be aiming for a huge stretch of green space - a public park with trees and a lake and neat gravel paths around brightly coloured flower beds. “冷静下来，”Sirius回答道，当他们进一步下降时。他们似乎正瞄准一片巨大的绿地——一个有树木、湖泊和整洁的砾石小径环绕着鲜艳的花坛的公共公园。

The landing was less than perfect. They hit the grass so hard they drove great muddy tracks in it, and Remus was finally thrown from the saddle altogether (though he was so relieved to be back on solid ground he could have kissed the grass). 着陆并不完美。他们重重地撞在草地上，留下了大大的泥迹，Remus最终完全被从座位上抛下（尽管他非常高兴能回到坚实的地面上，甚至想吻一吻草地）。

“Bugger,” Sirius said, cutting the engine and leaping off gracefully, “I’ll get better at that bit - you ok?” He held out a hand to help Remus up. “该死，”Sirius说，切断了发动机，优雅地跃下车，“我会在这方面做得更好——你没事吧？”他伸出手来帮Remus站起来。

“Fine, I think,” Remus brushed his trousers and arms. “Where are we?” “没事，我想，”Remus拍了拍裤子和手臂。“我们在哪里？”

“Highbury Fields.” Sirius cast obfuscate on the bike and then did his best to mend the ruined lawn. “I used to come here a lot before I left home.” “Highbury Fields。”Sirius对摩托车施了隐形咒，然后尽力修复被毁坏的草坪。“我以前离家之前经常来这里。”

“Oh, right,” Remus said, softly, “With Reg?” “哦，是吗，”Remus柔声说，“和Reg一起？”

“Sometimes,” Sirius sniffed, “Our governess brought us.” “有时候，”Sirius抽泣道，“我们的家庭教师带我们来的。”

Remus decided to store away this new revelation that Sirius had had a governess for another time. Remus决定将Sirius有家庭教师这个新的发现留待以后再谈。

“It’s nice,” he said, looking around at the lush green parkland, “Pretty. Want to show me around?” “这里不错，”他说，环顾四周的郁郁葱葱的公园，“很漂亮。想给我展示一下吗？”

Sirius smiled at him gratefully, and they went for a quiet Sunday afternoon walk. Here and there Sirius would stop and point something out - a tree he had climbed once, or a bridge he’d hidden under. Remus enjoyed listening. He had rarely heard any happy childhood memories from Sirius, and for a little while he even forgot why they were there. Sirius感激地对他笑了，他们进行了一次安静的周日下午散步。在这里，Sirius会停下来指着某些地方——他曾爬过的一棵树，或者他曾藏身的桥梁。Remus喜欢听这些。他很少听到Sirius的快乐童年记忆，暂时甚至忘记了他们为什么在这里。

They stopped by the war memorial. It was particularly fancy - Remus supposed because there was a fair bit of money in Islington. Atop the white plinth stood the green-hued statue of a young woman in ancient robes, holding aloft a laurel crown. An allegory for victory. 他们停在战争纪念碑旁边。这座纪念碑特别华丽——Remus猜测这是因为Islington有不少钱。白色基座上站着一尊绿色调的古代长袍年轻女性的雕像，举着桂冠。这是胜利的象征。

“I did my first magic here.” Sirius said with a grin, “When I was four.” “我第一次施魔法就在这里。”Sirius带着笑容说，“当我四岁的时候。”

“Really? What did you do?” “真的？你做了什么？”

“Set fire to her head,” he nodded at the statue. “Always been a rebel.” “点燃了她的头，”他指着雕像说道。“一直是个叛逆者。”

“Amazing,” Remus laughed. “太棒了，”Remus笑道。

“Yeah, Douceline - our governess - went mad trying to put it out. But we kept laughing, me and Reggie, and every time she extinguished it I just did it again, because it made him so happy.” “是的，Douceline——我们的家庭教师——试图扑灭火焰时疯了。但我和Reggie却一直在笑，每次她熄灭了火焰，我就再点燃一次，因为这让他很开心。”

Sirius looked down. He was quiet for a while, and Remus just put a hand on his shoulder, to show that he didn’t have to speak, if he didn’t want to. Sirius低下了头。他沉默了一会儿，Remus只是把手放在他的肩膀上，以示他可以选择不说话，如果他不愿意的话。

They looked at the plaque on the memorial. How sleep the brave who sink to rest, By all their country’s wishes bless’d. Remus couldn’t help but wonder about the names of the men listed below. How old had they been? Robert Fenn, Peter Cross, Arthur Hill… Had they all thought they were doing the right thing? Had they all been brave in their last moments? Had they thought of their family, their brothers? 他们看着纪念碑上的铭文。如何在所有国家的祝福中沉睡的勇士。Remus忍不住想那些下面列出的名字。这些人曾经多大年纪？Robert Fenn, Peter Cross, Arthur Hill……他们是否都认为自己在做正确的事？他们是否在最后的时刻表现出勇敢？他们是否想过他们的家人，他们的兄弟？

And when this war was over, would there be a plaque just like this in Diagon Alley? Whose names would it bear? Not Regulus’s. 当这场战争结束时，Diagon Alley会有一块这样的铭牌吗？上面会刻上谁的名字？不会是Regulus的名字。

“Come on.” Sirius said, finally. “I’m ready to go home, now.” “走吧。”Sirius终于说。“我现在准备回家了。”

Notes:The chapter title is from the Wilfred Owen poem of the same name, which itself is taken from Horace.

 

Chapter 166: The War: Autumn 1979Well I take whatever I want

And baby I want you

You give me something I need

Now tell me I got something for you

 

Come on come on come on and do it

Come on and do what you do

I can't get enough of your love

I can't get enough of your love

I can't get enough of your love

 

Friday 7th September 1979

 “Uuurrgh, bugger!” Remus groaned, cradling his shoulder and biting his lip. “唔呃，该死！”Remus呻吟道，捧着肩膀咬着嘴唇。

 

Padfoot came bounding over, yapped, then transformed back into Sirius, “帕德弗特”跳跃过来，吠了一声，然后变回了Sirius，“怎么了？”

“What’s up?” “怎么了？”

“Dislocated.” Remus grimaced, still clutching his arm. “Have you got my wand?” “脱臼了。”Remus面露痛苦之色，仍旧抓着自己的手臂。“你拿到我的魔杖了吗？”

“Yeah, hang on...” “是的，稍等一下……”

“All right, Moony?” James and Peter came sauntering out of the thicket. “That was great!” “没事吧，Moony？”James和Peter从灌木丛中悠闲地走出来。“真棒！”

“Yeah, great…” Remus accepted his wand from Sirius and pointed it at his sore arm. He thought about Livia and Castor, as he did every full moon since meeting the pack. He hoped they were both safe, and he sort of wished he had them nearby, just for the healing benefits. “是的，很棒……”Remus接过Sirius递来的魔杖，指向他疼痛的手臂。他想到了Livia和Castor，就像他在每个月圆之夜见到狼群时那样。他希望他们都平安，也有点希望他们能在身边，以便疗愈。

Arm fixed - or as close as he could get it, he struggled to his feet and pulled on his clothes, stashed under a nearby bush. “手臂修好了——或者说尽可能地修好了，他挣扎着站起来，穿上了藏在附近灌木丛下的衣服。

“Ok?” Sirius asked, watching him warily, “You look a bit shaky.” “好了吗？”Sirius小心翼翼地看着他，“你看起来有点不稳。”

“Just hurts a bit,” Remus said, having to stop himself from shrugging, “Can I side-along with you to get back?” “只是有点疼，”Remus说，努力阻止自己耸肩，“我能跟你一起回去吗？”

“Of course. Oi, Prongs,” Sirius nudged James with his elbow, grinning, “Bloody good stag do, eh? Eh?? Stag do?!” “当然可以。喂，Prongs，”Sirius用肘子碰了碰James，笑着说，“真是棒极了的单身派对，对吧？对吧？？单身派对？！”

“Yes, Padfoot, very funny,” James snorted, “Just as funny as the last hundred times.” “是的，Padfoot，非常搞笑，”James嗤笑道，“就像过去一百次一样搞笑。”

“I’m wasted on you lot,” Sirius sighed. “我对你们这些人真是白费力气，”Sirius叹了口气。

“Less than twenty-four hours to go!” Peter said, “How are you feeling?” “不到二十四小时了！”Peter说，“你感觉怎么样？”

“Tired.” James said, with a yawn. “Shall we?” “累。”James说道，打了个哈欠。“我们走吧？”

They apparated back to the Potters’, which was already a hive of activity. They’d hired four extra house elves in preparation for the wedding the next day, and the tiny little creatures darted back and forth across the kitchen whipping up a feast. 他们瞬间移动回了Potter家，那里已经是一个忙碌的蜂巢。他们雇佣了四个额外的家养小精灵来为第二天的婚礼做准备，那些小小的生物在厨房里来回飞奔，准备丰盛的宴席。

Lily and Mrs Potter were sitting at the kitchen table - Mrs Potter in her dressing gown and slippers, which she was never out of these days. Lily jumped up to kiss James, “Morning darling - I just stayed long enough to see you, but I’ll be off now. How are you, Remus?” Lily和Mrs Potter坐在厨房的桌子旁——Mrs Potter穿着她的睡袍和拖鞋，这些天她几乎没离开过这些衣服。Lily跳起来亲吻James，“早安，亲爱的——我只是呆了足够长的时间看你，但我现在要走了。你怎么样，Remus？”

Remus nodded, blank and exhausted. “Remus点头，神情呆滞且疲惫。”

Lily cocked her head and tutted, “Go to bed, the lot of you, you all need your beauty sleep. James, I’ve left you a list of things you need to get sorted this afternoon - give me a ring when it’s all finished or I’ll never sleep. Sirius, did he give you the rings? Oh no, silly me, I’ve got them, here you go… Remus, will you make sure he doesn't lose them? Pete, your mum popped round and I said you’d gone out with the lads and were sleeping off a hangover, so better if you don’t go home. I’m sending Mary over this evening with the buttonholes for you all, and the ties if Madam Malkin hurries up and gets them finished… oooh, do you all have shoes?!” “Lily歪了歪头，啧了一声，“都去睡觉吧，你们都需要美容觉。James，我给你留了一份下午需要整理的事项清单——全部完成后给我打电话，否则我无法入睡。Sirius，他给你戒指了吗？哦不，傻我，我有它们，这里给你……Remus，你能确保他不会丢失吗？Pete，你的妈妈来了，我说你和小伙子们出去解酒了，所以最好不要回家。我今晚会送Mary过来，给你们所有人带上胸花，还有领带，如果Madam Malkin赶紧做完……哦，你们都穿鞋了吗？！”

“Merlin, Evans,” Sirius yawned, “Anyone would think you’re getting married tomorrow.” “天啊，Evans，”Sirius打了个哈欠，“谁都以为你明天要结婚呢。”

She stuck her tongue out at him, kissed James, hugged Remus and hurried out the door. “她对他吐了吐舌头，亲吻了James，拥抱了Remus，然后匆忙离开了。”

“Go to bed, boys!” She shouted, as she left. “See you at the top of the aisle, Potter!” “去睡觉，孩子们！”她离开时喊道。“在过道顶端见，Potter！”

Remus looked down at the list Lily had left James - it was at least fifteen inches of parchment, and Lily had small handwriting. James ignored it, “Remus低头看了看Lily留给James的清单——那是一张至少十五英寸的羊皮纸，Lily的字迹很小。James没有理会它，

“Alright, mum?” He said, going over to Mrs Potter. She had two dark smudges under her eyes, and her hair was pale and stringy. Remus was finding it hard to meet her eye, these days - she reminded him so much of his last visit with Hope. ““好的，妈妈？”他说，走向Mrs Potter。她眼下有两个黑色的污迹，头发苍白而稀疏。Remus发现自己很难与她对视，这些天她让他想起了上次见Hope时的情景。

“Fine, fine,” She beamed up at him, “There’s so much to do!” ““没事，没事，”她对他笑道，“有很多事情要做！”

“Leave it for now,” he said, an arm around her, “Let’s all go to bed…” “先放下吧，”他说，搂着她，“我们都去睡觉吧……”

“That Lily,” Mrs Potter said as they all made slow progress up the stairs, “She’s a force to be reckoned with.” “那Lily，”Mrs Potter一边慢慢地走上楼梯一边说道，“她真是个不可忽视的力量。”

“Too right.” The boys all agreed. “完全正确。”男孩们都同意道。

Remus collapsed into bed without even taking his clothes off, and could have fallen asleep right there. “Remus没有脱下衣服就倒在床上，简直可以马上入睡。”

“Moony,” Sirius yawned again, pulling his boots off, “Don’t conk out until you’ve had your potion, McKinnon’s orders.” “Moony，”Sirius再次打了个哈欠，脱下靴子，“在喝完药水之前不要睡着，McKinnon的命令。”

“Mmmph.” Remus groaned, rolling over and reaching for the bottle on the bedside table. Sirius clambered in beside him as he finished it. “嗯哼。”Remus呻吟着，翻身去拿床头柜上的药瓶。Sirius爬到他身边，他喝完药水。

“Whose idea was it to have a wedding right after a full moon?!” He complained, another yawn encroaching. “谁的主意是在满月之后办婚礼？！”他抱怨道，又一个哈欠涌上。

“I told you all to just leave me to it,” Remus replied, closing his eyes and flinging an arm over his face. “我告诉你们都放手不管，”Remus回答道，闭上眼睛，将手臂搭在脸上。

“And miss the chance to make ‘stag do’ puns for the rest of the week? No chance.” “错过了在接下来的一周内做‘单身派对’双关语的机会？没门。”

Remus chuckled and quickly fell asleep. “Remus笑了笑，很快就入睡了。”

* * *

 

Having never attended a wedding in his life, Remus was very grateful to Lily for having left a list. It meant he always knew what to do. However, he quickly learnt that very little about weddings made any sense at all. For example, once they’d all woken up around midday, their first task was to decorate the quidditch hoops in the back garden. 从未参加过婚礼的Remus非常感激Lily留下的清单。这意味着他总是知道该做什么。然而，他很快发现婚礼的很多事情根本没有任何意义。例如，他们中午醒来后的第一个任务是装饰后花园里的魁地奇球门。

“Why are we doing this?” Remus asked, frowning up at the goals, as Peter arrived levitating a crate of white flowers. “为什么我们要做这个？”Remus皱着眉头看着球门，Peter漂浮着一箱白花走过来时问道。

“So they look nice,” James replied, broom in hand. “It’s the only way Lily would get married under them.” “为了让它们看起来好看，”James手拿扫帚回答。“这是Lily唯一会在它们下面结婚的方式。”

Remus stared at him, “You’re getting married under your old quidditch hoops?!” Remus盯着他，“你要在你旧的魁地奇球门下结婚？！”

“I know!” He grinned, “Brilliant, isn’t?!” “我知道！”他咧嘴笑道，“很棒，不是吗？！”

“Err…” “呃……”

“Moony,” Sirius said quickly, “You and Pete work on the growing charm down here, Prongs and I will fly up and do the hoops.” “Moony，”Sirius快速说道，“你和Pete在下面施生长咒，Prongs和我会飞上去装饰球门。”

Once they were finished, the three goal posts looked like a bizarre spindly rose bush had tried to take over. Next they had to decorate the nearby trees with the same flowers, and summon all of the chairs from the Potters’ extensive attic, then get them to line up neatly in rows of eight. After that, Mrs Potter asked Peter and Sirius to help her with all of the crockery for the reception, and gave James and Sirius instructions to ‘sort out the ballroom’. 完成后，这三个球门看起来像是奇怪的细长玫瑰灌木想要占据它们。接下来，他们必须用同样的花装饰附近的树木，并从Potter家宽敞的阁楼里召唤所有的椅子，然后让它们整齐地排成八排。之后，Mrs Potter让Peter和Sirius帮她整理招待会用的所有餐具，并让James和Sirius“整理舞厅”。

“Ballroom?!” Remus looked at James, confused. He’d been visiting the Potters’ for years now, and felt he knew the house pretty well - but he’d never seen a ballroom. “舞厅？！”Remus困惑地看着James。他已经来Potter家多年了，觉得自己很了解这栋房子——但他从未见过舞厅。

“Yeah, we don’t use it much,” James replied casually, “Keep it in storage.” “是的，我们不常用它，”James随意回答，“把它存放起来。”

“In… storage?” How on earth you ‘stored’ an entire room, Remus did not know. “存放起来？”Remus不知道你如何“存放”一整个房间。

“Yup, I just need to remember where the instructions are…” “是的，我只需要记得说明书在哪里……”

They went into James’s dad’s study, and James located a map inside one of the desk drawers. Remus got quite interested then - he would always be very fond of maps. This one was a blueprint for the Potters’ mansion, which made it extra fascinating. There were all kinds of special little spells and enchantments labelled on it, but they had work to do, so he couldn’t get a good look. 他们进入James父亲的书房，James在其中一个抽屉里找到了地图。Remus立刻感兴趣了——他一直很喜欢地图。这是一张Potter庄园的蓝图，格外引人入胜。上面标注了各种特殊的小咒语和魔法，但他们还有工作要做，所以他不能仔细看。

The ballroom was hidden behind the living room couch. James and Remus both had to concentrate very hard and murmur some ancient incantations to get the doors to appear. Then, of course, the couch had to be moved and the door unlocked, which was annoyingly fiddly. 舞厅藏在客厅沙发后面。James和Remus都得非常专注地默念一些古老的咒语才能让门出现。然后，当然，必须移动沙发并解锁门，这非常烦人。

When James finally pushed the oak panelled double-doors open, Remus’s jaw dropped. It was one of the most beautiful rooms he had ever seen; art deco marble pillars as far as the eye could see, and a glorious stained glass ceiling which cast jewel coloured patches of sunlight onto the dark hardwood floor. 当James终于推开镶有橡木面板的双扇门时，Remus的下巴掉了下来。这是他见过的最美丽的房间之一；极尽奢华的装饰艺术大理石柱子延展到视线尽头，辉煌的彩绘玻璃天花板将宝石色的阳光斑点洒在黑暗的硬木地板上。

“Bloody hell.” He swallowed, feeling very small. He remembered watching Sirius and Lily rehearsing dance steps in their tiny living room, and for the first time in a long time Remus felt very poor and grubby next to his wealthy pureblood friends. “该死。”他咽了咽口水，感觉自己很渺小。他记得看着Sirius和Lily在他们小小的客厅里排练舞步，这是很久以来第一次，Remus在他富有的纯血朋友旁边感到自己非常贫穷和肮脏。

“I know,” James laughed, “Stupid, isn’t it? But y’know, at least we’ll fit everyone in. I think we’ve got thirty-three Weasleys coming already.” “我知道，”James笑了，“很傻，不是吗？但你知道，至少我们能容纳所有人。我想我们已经有三十三个Weasley要来了。”

Feeling a bit better, Remus set about helping James check the room, and then they conjured some mops to begin cleaning the floor. James closed the doors while they did this, so that they would not be disturbed, “好了一点后，Remus开始帮James检查房间，然后他们召唤了一些拖把开始清理地板。James在他们这样做时关上了门，以免被打扰，

“I know we’re not really doing anything,” he said guiltily, leaning against a marble column, “But I just want five minutes without someone giving me an order. I wouldn’t mind, but Moody’s only giving us two days off for the wedding - we’re expected to report for duty on Sunday.” “我知道我们实际上没在做什么，”他内疚地说，靠在大理石柱子上，“但我只想有五分钟不被人指使。我倒不介意，但Moody只给我们两天的婚假——我们预期周日要报到。”

“Christ,” Remus shook his head, tutting. They stood quietly for a bit, watching the mops glide back and forth like funny skinny ballroom dancers. Remus was grateful for a breather, too. The weekend had begun with a full moon, and was only going to get more hectic as it went on. “天啊，”Remus摇了摇头，啧啧地说。他们安静地站了一会儿，看着拖把来回滑动，像有趣的瘦长舞厅舞者。Remus也很感激这次喘息的机会。这个周末从满月开始，随着时间的推移只会变得更加忙碌。

“How’s Sirius?” James asked, out of the blue. “Sirius怎么样？”James突然问道。

“Eh? Fine. Why?” Remus frowned. “嗯？很好。为什么？”Remus皱眉。

“Just checking.” “只是确认一下。”

“You see him almost as much as I do.” Remus teased him. It was true - James was much keener on the flying motorbike than Remus was, and they went for rides together almost every evening. “你见他的次数几乎和我一样多。”Remus取笑他。这是真的——James对飞行摩托车的热情比Remus高多了，他们几乎每天晚上都一起去骑行。

“I know,” James nodded, “But he hasn’t said anything about Regulus since… well, since he died.” “我知道，”James点头，“但自从……好吧，自从他去世后，他就没有说过关于Regulus的任何事。”

“No.” Remus sighed, “No, he hasn’t.” “没有。”Remus叹气，“没有，他没有。”

It wasn’t as if Remus had been pushing Sirius to talk about it, either - but he didn’t think James would understand their policy of never discussing family stuff. 也不是说Remus一直在催Sirius谈论这件事——但他不认为James会理解他们从不讨论家庭事务的政策。

“I don’t like him bottling it up,” James said, “I know he had a complicated relationship with Reg, but it can’t be normal to just pretend like he never existed.” “我不喜欢他把事情憋在心里，”James说，“我知道他和Regulus的关系很复杂，但假装他从未存在过肯定不正常。”

“Who’s to say what’s normal?” Remus countered, “Everyone grieves differently.” “谁能说什么是正常的？”Remus反驳道，“每个人哀悼的方式都不同。”

“So he is grieving?” James was giving Remus a very intense look, and it made him uncomfortable. He didn’t like other people asking him about Sirius’s personal stuff - that was between them. “所以他在哀悼？”James用一种非常强烈的目光看着Remus，这让他感到不舒服。他不喜欢别人问他关于Sirius的私人事情——那是他们之间的事。

“Yeah, of course.” He lied. That seemed to work. “是的，当然。”他撒了谎。这似乎奏效了。

“Good. I’ve been worried about him, it’s been a shit year all round, eh?” “好。我一直担心他，这一年真是糟透了，不是吗？”

“Could say that,” Remus snorted. “It’s about to get a lot better though. Any pre-game nerves?” “可以这么说，”Remus哼了一声。“不过情况即将好转。有赛前紧张吗？”

“Nah,” James grinned, the worry leaving his face, “Feel like I’ve already won the cup.” “没有，”James咧嘴笑了，脸上的担忧消失了，“感觉我已经赢得了杯赛。”

“Oh my god Prongs, you soppy git. That’s what you get for going out with girls.” “天哪Prongs，你这个多愁善感的家伙。这就是你和女生约会的结果。”

James roared with laughter, and by the time he had regained his composure the mops had finished their task, and the floor was gleaming as if brand new. James大笑起来，当他恢复镇定时，拖把已经完成了任务，地板闪闪发光，仿佛是全新的。

* * *

Saturday 8th September 1979

 

 

The first wedding Remus ever attended was the most beautiful and the happiest - and there was no way you could convince him otherwise. Everything went off without a hitch (well, he did have to talk an overexcited Sirius out of transforming into Padfoot to deliver the rings, but luckily it was only a fleeting mania), and it was smiles all around. Remus参加的第一个婚礼是最美丽、最幸福的——不管怎么说，你都不能说服他认为其他的更好。一切都很顺利（嗯，他确实要劝说过度兴奋的Sirius不要变成Padfoot来递戒指，但幸运的是，这只是短暂的疯狂），每个人都在微笑。

James’s parents looked as though they would burst with pride, both appearing healthier than Remus had seen them in ages, decked out in red and gold dress robes - Gryffindor colours. Marlene and Mary made beautiful bridesmaids in simple pale mauve dresses with circlets of gypsophila in their hair, and of course Lily herself was a vision in white lace. James的父母看起来似乎要因自豪而爆炸，他们看起来比Remus见过的健康多了，穿着红色和金色的礼袍——格兰芬多的颜色。Marlene和Mary穿着简单的淡紫色礼服，头上戴着满天星花环，成为美丽的伴娘，当然Lily本人则穿着白色蕾丝礼服，宛如仙境中的美景。

It seemed to Remus that the day flew by in a pastel-hued blur. He was always supposed to be somewhere, or doing something; there was barely a moment to relax and take stock. He was very glad that he’d never be getting married because just being a groomsman was exhausting enough. 对Remus来说，这一天似乎在柔和的色彩模糊中飞逝。他总是应该在某个地方，或做某件事；几乎没有时间放松和反思。他很高兴自己永远不会结婚，因为仅仅是做个伴郎就已经够累了。

Once the ceremony was over and they had to start mingling, Remus found himself feeling very shy. He hadn’t been around so many wizards and witches since Hogwarts - the magic in the air was palpable; muggy. It bothered him less now. His time with Greyback’s pack had taught him to cope with it, and as long as he didn’t need to do magic, he was fine. 仪式结束后，他们不得不开始与人交往，Remus发现自己感到非常害羞。自霍格沃茨以来，他从未在这么多巫师和女巫中间过——空气中的魔法是显而易见的；湿热的。现在他不再那么烦恼了。他与Greyback的狼群一起度过的时间教会了他如何应对，只要他不需要施魔法，他就没问题。

There were plenty of people he knew, of course. He spotted the Weasleys without too much bother; Arthur and Molly were running around all over the place after their five rambunctious redheaded sons; the eldest two had decided they wanted to play quidditch with the decorated hoops now that the boring bit of the day was over. 当然，有很多他认识的人。他很快就找到了Weasleys；Arthur和Molly在他们五个活泼的红发儿子后面跑来跑去；最大的两个决定现在无聊的部分已经结束，他们想用装饰好的球门打魁地奇。

Then, of course, there were Moody and Hagrid and Dumbledore, and lots of other people from the Order. It was nice to see them all at a happy event for once; it made everyone look younger. Frank and Alice were just back from their honeymoon - which Alice confided to Remus had actually involved quite a lot of work; they’d gone to Slovenia on a knowledge transfer mission with the local Aurors. 然后，当然，还有Moody、Hagrid和Dumbledore，以及很多来自凤凰社的其他人。很高兴能看到他们都在一次愉快的活动中；这让每个人看起来都更年轻。Frank和Alice刚刚从蜜月回来——Alice向Remus透露，他们实际上做了很多工作；他们去了斯洛文尼亚，与当地的傲罗进行知识转移任务。

And of course Ferox was there. He came over to shake Remus’s hand manfully, “Looking very smart, Lupin,” he nodded, and Remus felt himself blush head to toe - though he knew Sirius looked a million times better in exactly the same robes. “And Ms. McDonald,” Ferox kissed her hand, which made her blush too, “Very beautiful indeed. Will it be wedding bells for you two, next?” 当然，Ferox也在那儿。他过来硬朗地握了Remus的手，“看起来很帅气，Lupin，”他点点头，Remus感觉自己从头到脚都在脸红——虽然他知道Sirius穿着同样的礼服看起来好一百万倍。“还有McDonald小姐，”Ferox吻了她的手，这也让她脸红，“你们两个会是下一个结婚的人吗？”

Remus blinked - he hadn’t come out to very many people, fair enough, but he sort of thought most people had cottoned on by now. Mary laughed, “As if Remus would marry me! I’d drive him up the wall!” Remus眨了眨眼——他没有向很多人出柜，公平地说，但他觉得大多数人现在应该都明白了。Mary笑了，“Remus怎么会娶我！我会把他逼疯的！”

“Ah well,” Ferox clapped him on the shoulder, “You’re still young. Lots of wild oats to sow.” “啊，好吧，”Ferox拍了拍他的肩膀，“你还年轻。有很多野心要播种。”

“I live with Sirius,” Remus said, raising his eyebrows a little bit to see if his old teacher took the hint. But apparently not. Why were grownups always so dense? “我和Sirius住在一起，”Remus说，稍微扬起眉毛，看他以前的老师是否明白。但显然没有。为什么大人总是这么迟钝？

“Free-wheeling bachelors, eh?” Ferox laughed gruffly. Mary looked as though she was about to say something, but Remus caught her eye and gave the tiniest shake of his head. Not worth it. “自由自在的单身汉，是吧？”Ferox粗声笑道。Mary看起来似乎要说些什么，但Remus看了她一眼，微微摇了摇头。不值得。

“That’s right,” he nodded enthusiastically at Ferox. “没错，”他热情地对Ferox点点头。

After dinner (the best part of the day, in Remus’s opinion) Lily and James cut the cake - a huge towering affair with thirteen tiers covered in buttercream icing and pink piped roses - and then the dancing began. 晚餐后（在Remus看来是一天中最好的部分）Lily和James切蛋糕——一个巨大的高耸蛋糕，有十三层，上面覆盖着奶油糖霜和粉色管状玫瑰——然后开始跳舞。

Lily did Sirius proud - Remus could hear him counting under his breath as he watched them; “One two three, one two three… straighten that back, Evans! Good girl…” Lily让Sirius感到骄傲——Remus可以听到他在看着他们时小声数数；“一二三，一二三……挺直背，Evans！好女孩……”

The waltz over and done with, someone cast an amplifying charm on the Potters’ old turntable, and a Bad Company song began playing, which got all of the young people up and dancing - including Sirius, who Remus was grateful to hand over to Andromeda. Remus Lupin did not dance. 华尔兹结束后，有人对Potter家的旧唱机施了一个放大咒，然后开始播放一首Bad Company的歌，这让所有的年轻人都站起来跳舞——包括Sirius，Remus很高兴将他交给Andromeda。Remus Lupin不跳舞。

He was happy enough to sit by with a glass of champagne just watching, as usual. He looked for Peter, who liked to dance but often lost steam after a few songs, but couldn’t see him anywhere. He’d probably found some friends from work and gone to chat with them. Yaz and Marlene were on the dancefloor - they were both pretty dreadful, Marene wasn’t used to heels - but it was very sweet all the same. Yaz had cut her hair since leaving Hogwarts in June, and the cropped pixie look really suited her. 他很高兴能像往常一样坐在一旁，手拿一杯香槟观看。他找Peter，他喜欢跳舞，但几首歌后经常失去劲头，但哪里都找不到他。他可能找了一些工作上的朋友去聊天了。Yaz和Marlene在舞池里——他们两个都很糟糕，Marlene不习惯高跟鞋——但这很甜蜜。自从六月离开霍格沃茨后，Yaz剪了头发，精灵般的短发非常适合她。

Mary came to Remus’s rescue, in the end, as always. She hobbled over with a pained expression on her face and plonked down beside him. 最后，Mary像往常一样来救Remus。她带着痛苦的表情一瘸一拐地走过来，坐在他旁边。

“Blimey, these French knickers she’s got us in go right up your bum.” “天哪，她给我们穿的这些法国内裤直接插进了屁股。”

“Charming as ever, MacDonald,” Remus smirked. “一如既往地迷人，MacDonald，”Remus笑道。

James and Lily whirled past them, smiling at each other like maniacs. James和Lily旋转着从他们身边经过，像疯子一样互相微笑。

“Look at them,” Mary sighed. “Why can’t I find a bloke who loves me that much, eh? Not like I haven’t been looking.” “看看他们，”Mary叹了口气。“为什么我找不到一个如此爱我的男人，嗯？不是说我没在找。”

“You’ll find him,” Remus replied, just as happy. “你会找到他的，”Remus同样开心地回答。

“I’ll know it when I see it, that's what my mum says.” “见到的时候我就会知道，这是我妈妈说的。”

“If you’re lucky,” Remus snorted. He was a bit drunker than he’d initially thought, and his tongue was loose. But it was only Mary. “They say ‘love is blind’ for a reason.” “如果你幸运的话，”Remus哼了一声。他比最初想象的要醉一些，舌头也松了。但这只是Mary。“他们说‘爱情是盲目的’是有原因的。”

“I never had trouble recognising it, to be honest.” Mary confided. “It’s letting it in, that's the hard part.” “说实话，我从来没有认不出来。”Mary坦言。“让它进来，才是最难的部分。”

Remus nodded in agreement, though he wasn’t sure he followed. She continued, sipping her champagne. “Like you did, with Sirius.” Remus点头表示同意，尽管他不确定是否明白。她继续喝着香槟。“就像你和Sirius一样。”

“Oh yeah, my freewheeling bachelor friend.” Remus poked his tongue out, making Mary crease up, giggling. Remus grinned, happy to make her happy. He squeezed her knee, “You’re going to fall in love one day, how could you not? Anyone would be lucky to have you.” “哦，是的，我自由自在的单身朋友。”Remus伸出舌头，逗得Mary笑弯了腰。Remus咧嘴一笑，乐于让她开心。他捏了捏她的膝盖，“你总有一天会坠入爱河，怎么可能不呢？任何人拥有你都会很幸运。”

“Maybe once the war is over.” She said, lowering her voice, still watching the dancing. “I’m not sure I could survive falling in love right now, not with everything else on top.” “也许战争结束后。”她低声说，仍然看着舞蹈。“现在，我不确定我能在这所有的事情之上幸存下来。”

“Mm.” Remus looked away. “嗯。”Remus看向别处。

“Hiya,” Marlene appeared, drink in hand, “Remus, your boyfriend stole my partner.” She nodded across the dancefloor at Sirius and Yaz, who were swinging each other around wildly, apparently unable to decide who should lead. “嗨，”Marlene出现了，手里拿着饮料，“Remus，你的男朋友抢走了我的舞伴。”她点头示意舞池对面的Sirius和Yaz，他们疯狂地互相旋转，显然无法决定谁应该领舞。

Remus laughed, and Mary frowned, shifting uncomfortably in her seat. Marlene gave her a sympathetic look, “French knickers?” Mary nodded, wearily. Marlene leaned in and whispered, “I took mine off in the loos after the ceremony.” Remus笑了，Mary皱着眉，不舒服地在座位上移动。Marlene给了她一个同情的眼神，“法国内裤？”Mary疲倦地点点头。Marlene靠近低声说，“仪式后我在厕所里脱了。”

“Oh my god McKinnon, you genius.” Mary sat up abruptly and strode across the room towards the doors. Marlene laughed, taking her seat. “哦我的天哪McKinnon，你真是个天才。”Mary突然坐起来，跨步走向房门。Marlene笑了，坐下了。

One of the Weasley kids came skidding past, sliding on his knees across the highly polished ballroom floor. Molly came chasing after him, panting, “WILLIAM ARTHUR WEASLEY YOU WILL RUIN THOSE TROUSERS!” 一个Weasley的孩子滑了过去，跪着滑过高抛光的舞厅地板。Molly气喘吁吁地追赶着，“WILLIAM ARTHUR WEASLEY，你会毁了那条裤子！”

Marlene giggled, covering her mouth with her hand politely. She leaned in and whispered to Remus, “I heard her tell Hattie Bones that she’s pregnant again - and she only just had twins last year!” Marlene咯咯笑着，用手礼貌地捂住嘴。她靠近Remus低声说，“我听她告诉Hattie Bones她又怀孕了——而她去年刚生了一对双胞胎！”

“Crikey.” Remus said, developing a whole new respect for quiet and reserved Arthur Weasley. “天啊。”Remus说，对安静而拘谨的Arthur Weasley产生了全新的敬意。

“I reckon those two are having kids as soon as possible.” Marlene nodded at James and Lily, “Be very surprised if we don’t get an announcement before Christmas.” “我想那两个人会尽快生孩子。”Marlene点头示意James和Lily，“如果圣诞节前没有宣布，我会很惊讶。”

“Eurgh, really?” Remus wrinkled his nose. Weddings were one thing - they only lasted a day. But babies?! They had to do babies, now?! “哦，真的吗？”Remus皱了皱鼻子。婚礼是一回事——它们只持续一天。但孩子？！他们现在得要孩子了？！

“Don’t be such a grumpy sod.” Marlene gave him a sharp elbow, “Change is part of life. Come on, treat me to a dance. Be nice to have a partner that’s taller than me.” She stood up and tugged on his wrist. “别这么脾气暴躁。”Marlene给了他一个尖锐的肘击，“改变是生活的一部分。来吧，请我跳支舞。能有一个比我高的舞伴真好。”她站起来拉着他的手腕。

“Oh…” Remus sighed. “Ok, but only because they haven’t served the cake yet.” “哦……”Remus叹了口气。“好吧，但只是因为他们还没上蛋糕。”

 

Chapter 167: The War: Winter 1979Summary:Finishing off 1979 with a few wintry evenings. This chapter (and likely the new few chapters) is really more a series of episodes to give a shape of Remus's life from 1979 onwards.

 

I wanna be straight! I wanna be straight!

I’m sick and tired of taking drugs and staying up late.

I wanna confirm. I wanna conform.

I wanna be snug and I wanna be safe and I wanna be warm.

I wanna be straight! I wanna be straight,

I wanna create a place of my own in the welfare state.

I’m gonna be good; I’m gonna be kind.

It might be a wrench but think of the stench I'm leaving behind...

I wanna be straight! I wanna be straight,

Come out of the cold and do what I'm told and don't deviate.

I wanna give, I wanna give, I wanna give my consent -

I'm learning to hate all the things that were great when I used to be... bent!

 

Friday 23rd November 1979

 After all of the excitement of autumn, the beginning of winter felt remarkably unremarkable. Remus tried to be grateful for it; for once in his life, things were quiet. He didn’t get kidnapped by werewolves; there were no parents’ funerals or brothers dying. 经过秋天的所有兴奋，冬天的开始显得异常平淡。Remus尽量对此心存感激；他的生活中难得有安静的时候。他没有被狼人绑架；没有父母的葬礼或兄弟的死亡。

He tried to make himself useful to the Order. Sometimes they wanted things researched—help identifying curses that the Death Eaters were using, or coming up with new spells that could be used against them. He occasionally worked with Alice on this, and got to know her fairly well. She was incredibly intelligent, one of the most skilled duelists Remus had ever met. He got very good at defensive charms and spent a lot of time visiting various safehouses, setting up barriers and early warning systems. 他努力让自己对凤凰社有用。有时他们需要研究一些东西——帮助识别食死徒使用的诅咒，或者想出可以用来对抗他们的新咒语。他偶尔和Alice一起工作，并且相当了解她。她非常聪明，是Remus见过的最熟练的决斗者之一。他在防御咒语方面变得非常出色，并花了很多时间访问各个安全屋，设置屏障和预警系统。

Remus worked hard. He threw himself into it. He had a very strong desire to be involved, to strive for something good. Maybe he was growing up. Maybe he was just sick of having no control over his own life. Remus工作很努力。他全身心投入其中。他非常渴望参与，努力追求一些好的东西。也许他在成长。也许他只是厌倦了对自己的生活毫无控制。

Marlene came over a few evenings a week after work. She and Remus would sit up at the kitchen table, and he would tell her as much as he could about being a werewolf—his sense of smell, his increased metabolism, and how he cared for himself during and after a full moon. He tried to be as honest as he could without getting anyone else in trouble, and she diligently took notes, asked questions, and suggested improvements. Marlene每周有几个晚上下班后会过来。她和Remus会坐在厨房的桌子旁，Remus尽可能地告诉她关于狼人的一切——他的嗅觉、他的新陈代谢增加以及他在满月期间和之后如何照顾自己。他尽量诚实，不让别人陷入麻烦，她认真地做笔记，提出问题，并提出改进建议。

It was difficult for Remus, but also necessary. Marlene’s earnest nature and fierce determination to improve living standards for werewolves made him feel a bit better—like he might be doing some good after all. 对Remus来说，这很困难，但也是必要的。Marlene的诚挚性格和改善狼人生活水平的坚定决心让他感觉好多了——就像他毕竟在做一些好事。

“We need to get the Ministry away from this idea that cells and bars are the only remedy,” she would say, “From what you’ve told me, woodland is far better for the health of the subject—and we’re hardly short of woodland, are we? A few protective barrier spells would do it… all we need is some creative thinking, some compassion…” “我们需要让魔法部摆脱认为牢房和铁栏杆是唯一解决办法的想法，”她会说，“根据你告诉我的，森林对受试者的健康要好得多——而我们并不缺少森林，不是吗？几个保护屏障咒语就可以了……我们需要的是一些创造性的思维，一些同情心……”

Remus smiled at her. Marlene made him feel like there really would be change one day. And it was nice to spend time with a friend—Sirius was so often out in the evenings on missions or at meetings. Remus对她笑了。Marlene让他觉得有一天真的会有改变。而且和朋友一起度过时间也很好——天狼星经常在晚上执行任务或开会。

“How are you finding it, living with Sirius?” Marlene asked one evening as she was packing up. She looked around at the dark empty flat, “Quieter than my house.” “和天狼星一起住得怎么样？”Marlene有一天晚上收拾东西时问道。她环顾四周这间黑暗空荡的公寓，“比我家安静多了。”

Marlene was still living with her mother and step-dad, and Danny ever since he’d been bitten. More recently, Yaz had moved in too. Remus didn't know all the details, but it sounded as though Yaz’s parents hadn’t been thrilled when they found out about Marlene. Marlene仍然和她的母亲和继父一起住，还有自从被咬伤后的Danny。最近，Yaz也搬了进来。Remus不知道所有的细节，但听起来Yaz的父母在得知Marlene的事情后并不高兴。

“It's fine,” Remus nodded, helping her collect together her notes. “Different from school, obviously.” “很好，”Remus点点头，帮她收集笔记。“显然和学校不同。”

“Bet it's nice having your own space.” “有自己的空间一定很好。”

“It can be.” “有时是这样。”

“Do you… do you two fight much? You know, with all the stress and the missions…” Marlene was chewing her lip now, fiddling with a strand of loose hair. “你们……你们俩经常吵架吗？你知道，所有的压力和任务……”Marlene现在在咬着嘴唇，拨弄着一缕松散的头发。

“No.” Remus said, reflexively; shutting down, as he always did when it came to his private life with Sirius. “不。”Remus反射性地说；像往常一样，当涉及到他和天狼星的私人生活时，他关闭了话题。

“Oh,” Marlene sighed, lowering her eyes. “Maybe it's just us then. Maybe because my family's around all the time.” “哦，”Marlene叹了口气，低下眼睛。“也许只是我们这样。也许因为我的家人一直在身边。”

Remus felt a rush of sympathy for her. He touched her arm, “I bet it's normal, with all the stuff everyone's been through lately. Emotions running high and all that.” Remus感到一阵同情。他摸了摸她的手臂，“我敢说这很正常，最近每个人经历了这么多事情。情绪高涨什么的。”

“Maybe.” Marlene still sounded forlorn. “也许。”Marlene的声音仍然很悲伤。

“Look,” Remus said, lowering his voice even though they were alone, “The only reason Sirius and I don't argue is that we’re barely ever in the same room lately. And when we are in the same room we do everything we can to avoid talking about the war, even though it's all either of us can think about.” “看，”Remus低声说道，尽管他们是独自一人，“天狼星和我不吵架的唯一原因是我们最近几乎不在同一个房间。当我们在同一个房间时，我们尽一切可能避免谈论战争，尽管这是我们俩都在想的所有事情。”

He felt a rush of adrenaline having said this—he rarely spoke so openly about his feelings with anyone but Sirius. 他说了这些话感到一阵肾上腺素激增——除了天狼星之外，他很少如此公开地谈论自己的感受。

Marlene blinked at him tearfully, Marlene泪眼汪汪地看着他，

“Really? You don’t talk about it?” “真的？你们不谈论吗？”

“Not since Regulus died.” “自从Regulus死后就没有。”

“Oh, of course,” she nodded, softly, then wiped her eyes with her wrists, “Sometimes I feel like it’s all me and Yaz talk about; it’s exhausting. God, I can’t take all this death—all this misery. Do you know what Mary said to me the other day? She’s thinking of bowing out, giving up.” “哦，当然，”她轻轻地点了点头，然后用手腕擦了擦眼睛，“有时候我觉得这就是我和Yaz谈论的所有话题；这太累人了。天啊，我受不了所有这些死亡——所有这些痛苦。你知道Mary前几天对我说了什么吗？她想退出，放弃。”

“On the war?!” Remus stared, alarmed. “战争吗？！”Remus惊恐地盯着她。

“No,” Marlene shook her head, “Everything—the wizarding world. She said she’d rather just take her chances as a muggle with no education. Of course I know she didn’t mean it, but I understand where she’s coming from. We’ve been fighting and fighting, doing everything we can and it’s just not enough, is it? They’re winning.” “不，”Marlene摇了摇头，“一切——魔法世界。她说她宁愿冒险成为一个没有受过教育的麻瓜。当然我知道她不是认真的，但我理解她的想法。我们一直在战斗，尽我们所能，但这还不够，不是吗？他们在赢。”

“You can’t think like that.” Remus said. He really didn’t want to hear this—it was awful to listen to someone he admired being so pessimistic. She was saying exactly the things that kept him up at night. “你不能这么想。”Remus说。他真的不想听到这些——听到他钦佩的人如此悲观是很可怕的。她说的正是那些让他夜不能寐的事情。

“I know, I know, we’ve got to keep trying, no matter what.” Marlene said, still crying quietly, “But it’s taking everything I have, Remus. All I do—all any of us do is work and fight. What if… what if the war ends, and there’s nothing left of me? What if I can’t remember how to be happy?” “我知道，我知道，我们必须继续努力，无论如何。”Marlene说，仍然在悄悄地哭泣，“但这夺走了我的一切，Remus。我所做的一切——我们所有人所做的一切就是工作和战斗。如果……如果战争结束了，我什么也不剩了怎么办？如果我不记得如何快乐怎么办？”

“That’s bollocks,” Remus shook his head vehemently, “Of course you know how to be happy!” “这简直胡扯，”Remus激烈地摇了摇头，“你当然知道如何快乐！”

He went over to give her a hug. Marlene was almost as tall as he was, and her fair hair tickled his cheek. 他走过去给了她一个拥抱。Marlene几乎和他一样高，她的金发挠着他的脸颊。

“I’m being silly,” she sniffed, over his shoulder, “Just over-tired. The nights are drawing in, it makes me gloomy.” “我真傻，”她抽泣着说，靠在他的肩膀上，“只是太累了。夜晚越来越长，这让我很忧郁。”

“I don’t think you’re being silly,” Remus said as they pulled apart, “And you know you have so many friends to talk to when you feel gloomy.” “我不认为你傻，”Remus说，当他们分开时，“你知道当你感到忧郁时你有很多朋友可以倾诉。”

“I know,” she smiled, cheeks blotchy. “Thanks, Remus.” “我知道，”她笑了，脸颊红红的。“谢谢你，Remus。”

“Cup of tea?” “要喝杯茶吗？”

“No, I ought to get home—Yaz is stuck listening to stories of Danny’s glory days with the Cannons, otherwise.” “不，我该回家了——否则Yaz还在听Danny讲他在Cannons的辉煌岁月的故事。”

“Ha, go and rescue her then,” Remus grinned. He wanted to ask how Danny was—but he didn’t dare. They hadn’t spoken properly in a year—another thing that would have to wait until the end of the war. “哈，那就去救她吧，”Remus笑了笑。他想问Danny的情况——但他不敢问。他们一年没好好说话了——另一件必须等到战争结束后再处理的事情。

Marlene said goodbye and left through the fireplace in a blaze of green flames. Remus tidied up a bit, then went to wash the ink off his hands. It had got under his fingernails and turned them black, which made him think about Livia again. He’d become extremely enthusiastic about hygiene ever since he came back from the werewolves. Marlene说再见，通过壁炉消失在绿色火焰中。Remus整理了一下，然后去洗掉手上的墨水。墨水渗入了他的指甲，使它们变黑，这让他又想起了Livia。自从他从狼人那里回来后，他对卫生变得非常热衷。

He looked out of the living room window, which was fogged up with the early winter chill. Street lamps were flickering on, glowing yellow in the blue twilight—except the one outside their window, which was faulty and stayed pinkish-red all night. With Marlene gone, Remus was gripped with a terrible aching loneliness. He fetched his scarf and jacket and headed out the door. 他望向客厅的窗户，窗户因早冬的寒冷而起雾。街灯开始闪烁，在蓝色的暮光中发出黄色的光芒——除了他们窗外的那盏灯，它有故障，整晚都保持着粉红色。Marlene离开后，Remus被一种可怕的孤独感所笼罩。他拿起围巾和夹克，走出了门。

The garage door was open as he approached from the dark alleyway, light pouring out onto the uneven cracked pavement. As he got closer, he could hear the radio playing softly—a Stranglers song; “And it sounds like an empty house, standing still...” 当他从黑暗的小巷走近时，车库门开着，灯光倾洒在凹凸不平的破碎人行道上。靠近时，他能听到收音机轻轻播放的Stranglers的歌；“听起来像是一座空房子，静静地站着……”

Sirius was singing along, under his breath, like he was concentrating hard. When Remus was finally at the threshold he found Sirius cross-legged on the floor in front of his bike, wand behind one ear, spanner in hand. The garage was conspicuously warm, for winter, but Remus couldn’t see where he’d cast the heat charm. Perhaps on the floor itself. 天狼星低声唱着，像是在专心致志。Remus终于站在门槛上时，发现天狼星盘腿坐在他的摩托车前，魔杖夹在耳后，手里拿着扳手。对于冬天来说，车库显得异常温暖，但Remus看不到他在哪里施了热咒。也许是在地板上。

“Hello,” he said. Sirius looked up, surprised. “你好，”他说。天狼星抬头看着他，惊讶地说道。

“Hello, what are you doing here?” “你好，你在这里做什么？”

“Marlene left,” Remus shrugged, “Thought I’d just pop down and see what you’re up to.” “Marlene走了，”Remus耸耸肩，“我想我下来看看你在做什么。”

“Same old. Just tinkering.” Sirius said. “老样子。只是修修补补。”天狼星说道。

“Oh, ok.” “哦，好吧。”

“...sit down for a bit, if you like. I’m nearly finished.” Sirius gestured to a stool in the corner of the garage. “……坐一会儿，如果你愿意的话。我快弄完了。”天狼星示意车库角落的一张凳子。

“Only if I’m not in your way.” “只要我不妨碍你。”

“Don’t be silly,” Sirius flashed him a smile, and Remus sat. “别傻了，”天狼星对他微笑，Remus坐了下来。

He watched Sirius working for a while, fascinated. Remus knew nothing about mechanics—muggle or magic—and it made him feel weirdly proud that Sirius was clearly so skilled. He liked that feeling. 他看着天狼星工作了一会儿，着迷了。Remus对机械一无所知——无论是麻瓜的还是魔法的——看到天狼星如此熟练，他感到莫名其妙的自豪。他喜欢这种感觉。

“How are you?” He asked, thinking of the conversation with Marlene. “你好吗？”他问，想到和Marlene的对话。

“Eh? Fine.” Sirius didn’t look up, wand between his teeth now as he fiddled with the engine. “啊？很好。”天狼星没有抬头，嘴里叼着魔杖，摆弄着发动机。

“No, I mean really.” Remus pushed, “Are you ok? Just in general? Don’t feel like I’ve asked much lately.” “不，我是说真的。”Remus继续说道，“你还好吗？总体来说呢？我觉得最近没怎么问过你。”

Sirius looked at him and set down his wand. 天狼星看了看他，放下魔杖。

“I’m fine, Remus,” he said, “Don’t worry.” “我很好，Remus，”他说，“别担心。”

“But I love worrying,” Remus poked his tongue out. “但我喜欢担心，”Remus吐了吐舌头。

Sirius grunted with laughter and returned to his work, “How are you?” He asked. 天狼星咕哝着笑了笑，继续工作，“你呢？”他问道。

“Good.” Remus nodded, before re-thinking, “Well, you know. As good as it’s possible to be, right now.” “很好。”Remus点点头，然后重新思考了一下，“嗯，你知道。现在尽可能好。”

“Mm. Do you fancy a takeaway for dinner? I don’t want to cook.” “嗯。你想吃外卖吗？我不想做饭。”

“Yeah, ok.” Remus agreed. He waited quietly. There was a stack of boxes to his left. All of Sirius’s things were packed into big mahogany trunks with scorch marks where he’d burnt the Black family crest off. But the boxes next to Remus were cardboard and held together with brown muggle tape. “嗯，好吧。”Remus同意了。他安静地等待着。他左边有一堆盒子。天狼星的所有东西都装在大红木箱子里，上面有他烧掉布莱克家族徽章的烧痕。但Remus旁边的盒子是纸板做的，用棕色的麻瓜胶带粘在一起。

“What are these?” He asked, picking at the tape. Sirius looked up, wiping his hands on an old dishcloth, “这些是什么？”他问，挑着胶带。天狼星抬头看了看，用一块旧抹布擦着手，

“Oh… those are the boxes from Gethin.” “哦……那些是Gethin的盒子。”

“What?” Remus stood up to get a better look. Sirius bit his lip, looking nervous. “什么？”Remus站起来仔细看了看。天狼星咬了咬嘴唇，看起来很紧张。

“I know you said to get rid of the stuff your mum left you, but… well you weren’t in any state to talk about it after the funeral, and I couldn’t bear the thought of you regretting it. So James and I went to collect them, and I’ve just had it all here.” “我知道你说要处理掉你妈妈留下的东西，但是……你在葬礼后根本没法谈这事，我不想你后悔。所以我和James去收集了这些东西，一直放在这里。”

“I can’t believe you,” Remus said, stunned. Sirius climbed to his feet hurriedly, “我真不敢相信你，”Remus震惊地说。天狼星赶忙站了起来，

“Moony, I’m sorry, it wasn’t meant to be a secret or anything, I swear! It’s just that after your mum passed away it was one disaster after the other, so it sort of slipped my mind… and you can still get rid of them, if you want to, I haven’t looked!” “Moony，对不起，这不是故意隐瞒你的，我发誓！只是你妈妈去世后，一件接一件的灾难，让我忘了……你还是可以处理掉这些东西，如果你想的话，我还没看过！”

“Sirius,” Remus shook his head, smiling, “I mean I can’t believe you. You’re amazing. Thank you.” “天狼星，”Remus摇头笑了笑，“我是说我真不敢相信你。你真棒。谢谢你。”

“Oh.” Sirius smiled too, scratching behind his ear bashfully, “That’s good. Because you had so little time with her, I thought you’d want something to remember her by. Do you want to look now?” “哦。”天狼星也笑了，害羞地挠了挠耳朵后面，“那太好了。因为你和她在一起的时间太少了，我觉得你会想要些东西来纪念她。你现在想看看吗？”

Remus thought about it. Shook his head. “Not just yet. Maybe on a rainy day.” Remus想了想，摇了摇头。“还不急。也许在雨天。”

He helped Sirius collect everything up, and they walked back to the flat, stopping at the pie shop on the way. Sirius liked chicken and mushroom, Remus preferred steak and onion. He carried the paper bag, to be gallant. 他帮天狼星收拾好东西，他们走回公寓，中途在馅饼店停了一下。天狼星喜欢鸡肉蘑菇，Remus则喜欢牛排洋葱。他拿着纸袋，为了显得绅士。

“Seriously,” He said, as they climbed the stairs to the flat, “Thank you so much for the boxes. I’d have forgotten all about them.” “说真的，”他们爬楼梯回公寓时他说，“非常感谢这些盒子。我差点全忘了它们。”

“S’ok,” Sirius shrugged, “I know if I had anything of Reg’s…” he stopped abruptly. “没事，”天狼星耸耸肩，“我知道如果我有Reg的什么东西……”他突然停住了。

Remus didn’t know what to say, so he kept quiet as Sirius unlocked the door and entered the flat, switching the lights on and complaining, “Bloody hell, Moony, it’s freezing in here!” Remus不知道该说什么，所以他保持沉默，看着天狼星开门进了公寓，开灯时抱怨道，“见鬼，Moony，这里冻死了！”

“Sorry!” He tended to run hot, even in winter, and didn’t turn the heating on if he was the only one in the flat. He felt very stupid now, remembering that Marlene had kept her gloves on the whole time she'd been there and it hadn’t even occurred to him to ask why. “对不起！”即使在冬天，他也喜欢热，即使他是公寓里唯一的人也不开暖气。现在他觉得很傻，想起Marlene一直戴着手套，而他从没问过为什么。

Sirius lit a fire, and Remus went to get plates for their dinner. They sat on the couch, leaning shoulder to shoulder and listening to the new album by The Police, which Andromeda had sent for Sirius’s birthday. 天狼星点了火，Remus去拿盘子吃晚饭。他们坐在沙发上，肩并肩听着Andromeda送给天狼星生日的新专辑《The Police》。

When they’d finished eating, Sirius rested his head on Remus’s shoulder and closed his eyes, settling in. Remus sent the plates to the kitchen and raised his arm for Sirius to fit under. Warm, well fed and relaxed, he could have fallen asleep just like that. 吃完后，天狼星把头靠在Remus的肩膀上，闭上眼睛，安静下来。Remus把盘子送到厨房，然后抬起胳膊让天狼星靠过去。温暖，吃饱放松，他就这样快要睡着了。

“How’s Marls?” Sirius murmured after a little while. “Marls怎么样？”天狼星过了一会儿低声问。

“Yeah, fine. A bit down.” “嗯，还好。有点沮丧。”

“Down?” “沮丧？”

“She’s just having a hard time with the war.” Remus felt butterflies in his stomach, but continued bravely, “I think we all are, aren’t we?” “她只是因为战争而过得很艰难。”Remus胃里一阵紧张，但勇敢地继续说道，“我想我们都是，对吗？”

Sirius was quiet for a bit, and Remus couldn’t see his face, only the top of his head, but he knew he was thinking. Finally, he whispered, “Yeah. We are.” 天狼星沉默了一会儿，Remus看不到他的脸，只能看到他的头顶，但他知道他在思考。最后，他低声说，“是的。我们都是。”

Friday 21st December 1979 1979年12月21日，星期五

It wasn’t exactly a breakthrough - they still didn’t talk about the war any more than they really needed to - but it felt good enough at the time. And while it felt cathartic to admit that they were both struggling, there was nothing that could be done to improve things. People were still dying, the death eaters were still gaining power, Sirius and James were still super heroes. 这算不上是突破——他们仍然没有比真正需要的更多谈论战争——但那时感觉还不错。尽管承认他们都在挣扎感觉有些宣泄，但没有什么可以改善的。人们仍在死亡，食死徒仍在壮大，天狼星和James仍然是超级英雄。

As Christmas approached, no one felt very merry. They would not be spending the day at the Potters’ this year - in early December both of James’s parents were admitted to St Mungo’s. They’d contracted dragon pox, which was so contagious it meant that just visiting them was a mission in itself. 随着圣诞节的临近，没有人感到很快乐。今年他们不会在Potters家过节——12月初James的父母都住进了圣芒戈医院。他们感染了龙痘，非常具有传染性，以至于仅仅是探望他们就像是一次任务。

When Sirius heard the diagnosis he locked himself in the bathroom for two hours. Remus did a bit of research and found out why - elderly people rarely survived the disease. So that became another thing they didn’t talk about. 天狼星听到诊断后，把自己锁在浴室两个小时。Remus做了一些研究，发现了原因——老年人很少能幸存这种疾病。所以这又成了他们不谈论的另一件事。

James practically lived at the hospital, when he wasn’t meeting with Moody or on an assignment somewhere. Lily told Remus that he’d had to pick up a lot of Fleamont’s work, and that he was up until the small hours every night working in his father’s study. James几乎住在医院里，不是在和Moody见面，就是在某个地方执行任务。Lily告诉Remus，他不得不接手很多Fleamont的工作，每晚在他父亲的书房工作到深夜。

“I wish I could help him,” she said mournfully, “He’s not ready to lose them yet, it’s too cruel.” “我希望我能帮他，”她悲伤地说，“他还没有准备好失去他们，这太残忍了。”

Remus agreed. In what sort of a world could people like Voldemort and Greyback live while Mr and Mrs Potter died? Remus同意了。在什么样的世界里Voldemort和Greyback这样的人可以活，而Potter夫妇却要死？

Remus didn’t realise how dark things had become until late December, when he got an unexpected phone call. Remus直到十二月末才意识到事情变得多么糟糕，那时他接到了一个意外的电话。

Sirius was out - he and James had been sent to West Cork to follow up on some reports of a black magic ritual taking place. Remus had been alone all day, trying to distract himself as each minute crawled by with no news. Sirius had left him his compact mirror, in case anything happened, and Remus had spent the past hour staring at it. 天狼星出去了——他和James被派往西科克去跟进一些黑魔法仪式的报告。Remus整天独自一人，试图分散注意力，因为每分钟都在拖延，没有任何消息。天狼星留给了他一个小镜子，以防发生任何事，Remus花了过去一个小时盯着它看。

When the phone rang he practically jumped out of his skin, then leapt to answer it. 电话铃声响起时，他几乎吓得跳了起来，然后跳起来去接电话。

“Hello?!” Logically he knew it couldn’t be bad news - wizards never used phones if they could help it - but his voice shook all the same. “喂？！”从理智上讲，他知道这不可能是坏消息——巫师们如果能避免使用电话的话通常不会用——但他的声音仍然颤抖。

“‘Ello!” A voice boomed - it was so cheerful it couldn’t possibly be anyone Remus knew. Must be a wrong number. “‘你好！”一个声音轰鸣着——它非常欢乐，绝对不是Remus认识的人。肯定是打错了。

“Hello?” Remus frowned, “I’m sorry, I think you have--” “喂？”Remus皱眉，“对不起，我想你拨错了——”

“--Reeeeemus!” Grant sang down the phone. He sounded drunk, and there was a lot of noise behind him, “Come down to the Sawyer’s Arms!” “——Reeeeemus！”Grant在电话那头唱道。他听起来醉醺醺的，背景喧闹，“来Sawyer’s Arms酒吧吧！”

“Where's that?” “那是哪里？”

“Bloomsbury! Come onnnn! We’re all celebrating!” “布卢姆斯伯里！快来！我们都在庆祝！”

“Celebrating? What? With who?” “庆祝？什么？和谁？”

“My mates!” “我的朋友们！”

Remus felt a sinking feeling. Remus感到一种沉重的感觉。

“...ok, give me an hour.” “……好吧，给我一个小时。”

“Weeeeeey!” Grant hung up abruptly. “耶！”Grant突然挂断了电话。

Remus got up to change his clothes. Remus起身去换衣服。

He didn’t want to go. Not where there were muggles. Not where there were people , but Grant was definitely drunk, and the last time Remus had seen him drunk he had needed help. He sounded perky enough on the phone, but Remus wanted to be sure. Besides. He needed a distraction; he couldn’t sit about in the flat all evening. 他不想去。不是去有麻瓜的地方。不是去有人聚集的地方，但Grant显然醉了，Remus最后一次看到他醉的时候他需要帮助。他在电话里听起来很精神，但Remus想确认一下。除此之外，他需要分散注意力；他不能整晚呆在公寓里。

He shoved the mirror in his jeans pocket, pulled on a jumper, then his coat and scarf, and headed out into the wintry London streets. He got the tube to Holborn; the streets were too busy with Christmas revellers to apparate safely, and he wanted to take a convincing amount of time to arrive. 他把镜子塞进牛仔裤口袋里，穿上毛衣，然后是外套和围巾，走到寒冷的伦敦街头。他坐地铁到Holborn；街上圣诞狂欢的人太多，无法安全幻影移形，他想要花一些时间到达那里。

The Sawyer’s Arms was a proper old man’s pub; thick red and yellow carpet, etched glass windows, grimy brass fixtures. It was foggy inside with cigarette smoke, but Remus managed to track Grant down without much bother - he was sitting in a large corner booth, surrounded by a group of young people who looked about their age. Ah, Remus realised - they were students. Sawyer’s Arms是一家真正的老年酒吧；厚重的红色和黄色地毯，雕刻玻璃窗，肮脏的黄铜装置。里面烟雾弥漫，但Remus成功找到了Grant——他坐在一个大角落的包厢里，周围是一群看起来和他们差不多大的年轻人。啊，Remus意识到——他们是学生。

“Reeee-musssss!” Grant cheered, raising both arms in greeting as Remus entered the pub. “You caaaaame!” “Reeee-musssss！”Grant欢呼着，双臂高举着迎接Remus进入酒吧。“你来了！”

“Sorry I’m late,” Remus said, shyly. The people sitting at Grant’s table all looked friendly enough, but they were still strangers. “对不起我迟到了，”Remus害羞地说。坐在Grant桌子旁的人看起来都很友善，但他们仍然是陌生人。

“Lads,” Grant slurred loudly, addressing the group of men and women, “This is Remusss, my very oldest friend. ‘E went to a posh private school an’ evvvry-fin’. Dead clever.” “伙计们，”Grant大声含糊地说道，指着一群男男女女，“这是Remusss，我非常老的朋友。他上过贵族私立学校，什么都会。特别聪明。”

Remus waved awkwardly at everyone, then turned to Grant, “I see you’ve been celebrating.” Remus尴尬地向大家挥了挥手，然后转向Grant，“我看到你们在庆祝。”

“Too bloody right! ‘Ere, got you a pint.” He pushed a glass across the table, and it slid a bit fast, the table slick with spilled beer. Remus darted forward to grab the drink before it flew off the edge. “没错！给你一杯酒。”他把一杯酒推到桌子上，它滑得有点快，桌子上溅满了啤酒。Remus迅速向前抓住酒杯，免得它掉下边缘。

“Thanks,” he raised it slightly, then drank. Ah. It had been a while since he’d been in a pub. The lager went down very smoothly. “谢谢，”他稍微举起酒杯，然后喝了一口。啊，已经有一段时间没去酒吧了。这瓶拉格啤酒滑顺地下咽。

“We’re celebratin’!” Grant said, beaming at him, “End of exams, innit!” “我们在庆祝！”Grant对他笑道，“考试结束了，不是吗！”

“Oh, congratulations,” Remus smiled, pulling up a stool and perching on the end of the table. “What do you all study?” “哦，恭喜，”Remus微笑着，拉起一张凳子，坐在桌子的末端。“你们都学什么专业？”

They went around introducing themselves - Remus was never going to remember everyone’s name - Suzie was doing Accountancy - she was a small, mousy girl with huge round glasses and a pimple on the end of her nose. Rajesh wanted to study Engineering at Kings, but he needed to get a better Maths result first, Tim - a tall, blokey man in a rugby shirt - was doing social studies. Martine was Tim’s girlfriend, studying for her nursing qualification. They were all pretty tipsy, but Grant was drunkest of all. 他们轮流介绍自己——Remus永远记不住每个人的名字——Suzie在学会计——她是一个小巧、像老鼠一样的女孩，戴着巨大的圆眼镜，鼻子上有一个痘痘。Rajesh想要在Kings学习工程学，但他需要先取得更好的数学成绩。Tim——一个穿橄榄球衫的高个子男人——在学社会学。Martine是Tim的女朋友，正在学习护理资格证。他们都挺醉的，但Grant醉得最厉害。

Remus introduced himself as best he could - he told them he was studying ancient languages, because he was actually very good at Runes, and rarely got the opportunity to show off about it. He needn’t have worried about Grant - these new friends were a world away from the sort he’d been mixing with a few years ago. Remus尽力自我介绍——他说他在学习古代语言，因为他实际上对符文非常擅长，并且很少有机会炫耀。他不必担心Grant——这些新朋友与他几年前混在一起的人大相径庭。

The drinks kept coming, too. Remus tried to be polite, and turn down each round, but it was no good - everyone was in a Christmas mood. Three beers in, so was Remus. The pub music alternated between Slade, Wizard, Cliff Richards and Shakin’ Stevens, there was tinsel hanging from the sconces on the walls, and even the barmen were wearing party hats. Remus had half forgotten about the season - there was no time for this sort of fun any more. 饮料也不断地上来。Remus尽量礼貌地拒绝每一轮，但没有用——每个人都在圣诞节的气氛中。喝了三瓶啤酒，Remus也如此。酒吧的音乐轮流播放Slade、Wizard、Cliff Richards和Shakin’ Stevens，墙上的壁灯上挂着闪亮的装饰，甚至酒保们也戴着派对帽。Remus半忘记了这个季节——再也没有时间享受这种乐趣了。

At about half-eight he heard a voice in his pocket, and hurried into the gent’s to check the mirror. It was Sirius. 大约八点半时，他听到口袋里的声音，急忙走进男厕查看镜子。是天狼星。

“All’s well,” he said, looking very ruffled, black smudges streaking his face, “Both ended up covered in ash, though - don’t ask - going to wash off at Prongs’ then have something to eat - be a while yet.” “一切都好，”他说，看起来很乱，脸上有黑色的污迹，“不过我们俩都沾上了灰烬——别问——打算在Prongs那儿洗个澡，然后吃点东西——还要一段时间。”

 

“As long as you’re ok!” Remus said, earnestly. “只要你没事就好！”Remus认真地说。

“Yeah, we’re fine,” Sirius nodded gravely. Then he frowned, peering up at Remus through the mirror. “Where are you? At home?” “嗯，我们没事，”Sirius严肃地点了点头。然后他皱起眉头，通过镜子看着Remus。“你在哪里？在家吗？”

“Pub.” Remus said, guiltily. “酒吧。”Remus愧疚地说。

“With Mary?” “和Mary在一起吗？”

“No, with… um. With Grant. He’s celebrating the end of exams.” “不，和……嗯。和Grant在一起。他在庆祝考试结束。”

“Oh, celebrating.” Sirius’s face turned stony. “哦，庆祝。”Sirius的脸色变得严肃。

“I got invited out, that’s all.” Remus said, “I was going mad in the flat by myself.” “我只是被邀请出去而已。”Remus说，“我一个人在公寓里快疯了。”

“Ok, Moony,” Sirius gave him an odd look, “Have fun.” “好的，Moony，”Sirius给了他一个奇怪的表情，“玩得开心。”

“I can come to Prongs’ if you wan--” Remus started, but Sirius’s face had gone. “如果你愿意，我可以去Prongs那里——”Remus开始说，但Sirius的脸已经消失了。

Remus left the loo’s and ordered a round for everyone. He didn’t have any money, so he cast a glamour on a scrap of paper he found in his pocket, and the barman thought it was a twenty pound note - he even gave Remus change. Remus离开了洗手间，为大家点了一轮酒。他没有钱，于是他在口袋里找到一张纸片施了个幻象，酒保以为那是一张二十磅的钞票——他甚至还给了Remus零钱。

If Sirius was allowed to stay at James’s and have a nice dinner and take his sweet time getting home, then Remus didn’t see why he shouldn’t be allowed to get steaming drunk in the pub with a bunch of muggles. 如果Sirius可以待在James那里，享受一顿美好的晚餐，慢慢回家，那Remus就不明白为什么他不可以在酒吧里和一群麻瓜喝醉。

They stayed for a few more hours, talking about TV and music and clothes and films, and other gloriously mundane muggle things. Eventually, one by one, the others said their goodbyes and left. 他们又待了几个小时，谈论电视、音乐、衣服和电影，以及其他令人愉快的麻瓜琐事。最后，其他人一个接一个地告别离开了。

Suzie was the last to get up. She whispered to Remus, “Will you make sure he gets home ok?” Nodding at Grant, who had fallen under the table looking for his bus pass, and was now sitting on the floor giggling to himself. Suzie是最后一个起身的。她对Remus低声说：“你能确保他安全回家吗？”她点了点Grant，他已经摔在桌子下找他的公交卡，现在坐在地上自己傻笑。

“Yeah, no worries,” Remus nodded, feeling a bit giggly himself. “嗯，没问题，”Remus点了点头，自己也感到有点儿好笑。

“Merry Christmas, Remus, it was lovely to meet you,” she smiled, pulling on her coat. “圣诞快乐，Remus，很高兴见到你，”她笑着说，穿上了外套。

“Yeah, you too.” “你也是。”

Once she’d left, Remus knocked back the dregs of his pint and decided that would be it. “Oi,” he gave a gentle kick under the table, “C’mon, you, time to go.” 她离开后，Remus一口气喝光了杯子里的最后一点酒，决定就这样吧。“喂，”他在桌子下轻轻踢了一下，“来吧，时间到了，该走了。”

“Nah, let's stay out!” “不，我们继续呆在外面！”

“How many have you had?” Remus asked, hands on his hips. He was feeling pretty tipsy, and Remus's tolerance was higher than most. “你喝了多少？”Remus问，双手叉腰。他感到有点儿醉，而Remus的酒量比大多数人要高。

“A few,” Grant said, pulling himself up, shaking the whole table. Remus got a hand under his elbow to steady him, and began to guide him towards the doors. “几个，”Grant说，拉起自己，摇晃着整个桌子。Remus在他的肘部下方撑了一下，稳住他，然后开始引导他向门口走去。

“Where are you living these days?” “你现在住在哪里？”

“You know where,” Grant hiccupped, “Brighton.” “你知道的，”Grant打了个嗝，“布莱顿。”

“Brighton?!” “布莱顿？！”

“Yeah, s'fine, just stick me on the last train.” “对，没关系，就把我送上最后一班火车。”

“No,” Remus said, “You’ll get arrested or something. Come on, you can kip on my couch.” “不，”Remus说，“你会被逮捕的。来吧，你可以在我家沙发上睡觉。”

“Awww,” Grant grinned. “哦，”Grant笑了。

They staggered onto the tube together, and at Leicester Square the escalator was switched off, so they had to climb it, and were breathless by the time they reached ground level. 他们一起摇摇晃晃地上了地铁，在Leicester Square，自动扶梯被关闭了，所以他们不得不爬上去，到达地面时已经气喘吁吁。

“I need a fag,” Remus gasped, patting his pockets for his cigarette case. “我需要一根烟，”Remus喘息着，拍打着口袋寻找他的烟盒。

His fingers brushed against the compact mirror instead, and he felt a quiet twinge of dread as he wondered whether Sirius was home. Not that anything untoward was going on - he just didn't want to start the fight that was brewing just yet. 他的手指却碰到了小镜子，他感到一丝静悄悄的恐惧，想知道Sirius是否在家。并不是说发生了什么不寻常的事——他只是还不想开始那场正在酝酿的争吵。

Giving up on the cigarette, he steered Grant towards Chinatown. The streets were still quite busy, light and laughter spilling out from the soho bars and sleazy picturehouses. 放弃了抽烟，他把Grant带向了中国城。街道上仍然很繁忙，来自Soho酒吧和猥亵电影院的灯光和笑声溢出街头。

“Whaddidya think of Tim?” Grant slurred, leaning heavily against Remus, “Reckon I’m in wiv a chance?” “你觉得Tim怎么样？”Grant含糊地问，沉重地靠在Remus身上，“你认为我有机会吗？”

“I thought he was seeing Martine?” “我以为他和Martine在交往？”

“Pffft.” “哼。”

“He’s er… very tall?” “他……很高？”

“‘E’s strong,” Grant said, decisively, “Like me a strong bloke. S’how I know you an’ me’d never work out.” “他很强壮，”Grant果断地说，“像我这样的强壮小子。这就是我知道你和我永远不会合适的原因。”

“Oi!” Remus took umbrage, “I’m stronger than I look!” “喂！”Remus生气了，“我比看起来更强壮！”

Grant scoffed at him, laughing, and Remus was drunk enough to take this as a challenge to his manhood. He didn’t often go in for displays of masculine bravado, but maybe the beer was having some influence. Acting quickly, and barely thinking, he bent and grabbed Grant around the legs, lifting him up and hauling him over his shoulder. Grant嘲笑他，笑了，而Remus醉得足够把这当作对他男子气概的挑战。他不经常表现出男子气概的炫耀，但也许啤酒正在发挥一些影响。Remus迅速行动，几乎没怎么思考，他弯下身子抓住Grant的腿，把他抬起来，扛在肩上。

Grant was yelping and spluttering with laughter as Remus jogged with him a good few yards, Grant在Remus和他一起跑了几码的距离时，尖叫着并喷着笑声，

“Put me down!” He shrieked, “You’ve proved your point, you’re very strong!” “把我放下！”他尖叫道，“你已经证明了你的观点，你很强壮！”

“That’s all I needed to hear,” Remus smirked, stopping to set Grant down, carefully. Still unsteady on his feet, Grant grasped Remus’s shoulder for support, choking laughter and grinning madly. “这就是我需要听到的，”Remus带着得意的笑容说，停下脚步，小心翼翼地把Grant放下。Grant依然站立不稳，抓住Remus的肩膀以寻求支撑，咯咯笑着，疯狂地笑着。

“Ooo-ooooh, what’s this then?” A nasty, sneering voice came from behind them. “哦哦哦，这是什么？”一个恶毒的、嘲笑的声音从他们身后传来。

Grant stiffened, and his back straightened; he stared forward and lowered his head, making to ignore the danger brewing, but Remus was a bit pissed, and couldn’t help looking back. Grant僵硬起来，背部挺直；他盯着前方，低下头，试图忽视正在酝酿的危险，但Remus有点醉，忍不住回头看。

Three men were approaching, their faces were cast into shadow by the unreliable streetlights and tall buildings, but their body language could not be misread; the rounded shoulders, balled up fists and wide gait. Masculine bravado. 三个男人正朝他们走来，他们的脸在不可靠的街灯和高楼大厦的阴影下模糊不清，但他们的肢体语言无法被误解；圆肩、握紧的拳头和宽阔的步态。男子气概的炫耀。

“Ignore them,” Grant breathed, his lips barely moving, “Come on, quick.” “忽视他们，”Grant低声说，他的嘴唇几乎没动，“快走。”

But Remus had never been very good at running away from a threat. 但Remus从来不擅长逃避威胁。

“Can I help you?”

The men sniggered meanly, still advancing. One spoke to another, as if Grant and Remus were deaf—or just not worth addressing at all. 那些人恶意地窃笑着，仍在向前走。一个对另一个说话，仿佛Grant和Remus听不见——或者根本不值得理会。

“Looks like a couple’a nancy boys to me, couple’a dirty queers out looking for trouble.” “在我看来像是一对娘娘腔的家伙，一对肮脏的同性恋在寻衅滋事。”

“If they’re looking for trouble,” another said, “I know where they can get it.” He slammed his fist into his open hand, as if to demonstrate. “如果他们在找麻烦，”另一个人说，“我知道他们可以在哪里找到。”他将拳头重重地打在另一只手上，仿佛在演示。

“Remus…” Grant hissed, tugging on his coat, “Come on!” “Remus……”Grant低声说，拉扯着他的外套，“快走！”

Remus ignored him. He faced the three men, and raised his chin. Using his very politest private-school voice, he said, Remus无视了他。他面对着三个人，抬起下巴。用他非常礼貌的私立学校口吻说，

“Move along, gentlemen, before I do something you’ll regret.” “各位先生，离开吧，否则我会做一些你们会后悔的事情。”

The men crowed with laughter, and did not move alone. Remus was glad. His lips curled, he shifted position, legs apart, and stared them down. With a slight turn of his wrist, they froze to the spot. It took them a second to realise what had happened, their gormless faces now visible in the red light of a neon ‘SEXXX’ sign flashing in the shop window next to them. 那些人哈哈大笑，却没有离开。Remus很高兴。他的嘴角上翘，换了个姿势，双腿分开，目光直视着他们。他轻轻转动了一下手腕，他们立刻僵住了。他们花了一秒钟才意识到发生了什么，他们呆滞的脸庞在旁边商店闪烁的霓虹“SEXXX”标志的红光中变得清晰可见。

They stared at each other, tried to move their legs, but were fixed in place, as if they’d stepped into quick-setting concrete. 他们互相瞪着，试图移动双腿，但却像是踩进了快速凝固的混凝土中一样，无法动弹。

“What the fuck?!” One of them grunted angrily. “什么鬼？！”一个愤怒地咕哝道。

“Don’t be scared, boys,” Remus grinned, rather enjoying himself, “I don’t bite. Often.” “别怕，伙计们，”Remus带着笑容说，显然很享受这个过程，“我不会咬人。经常。”

“I’m gonna fucking batter ya, yer poof!” One of the men yelled, “I’m gonna beat the piss out of ya!” “我要他妈的揍扁你，你这娘们！”一个人吼道，“我要把你打得屁都没得拉！”

That gave Remus an excellent idea. He snapped his fingers quickly, and watched the men’s faces. One by one, a look of horror crossed each of them, and Remus caught the scent moments before their jeans began to visibly darken. 这给了Remus一个绝妙的主意。他迅速打了个响指，看着这些人的脸色。一个接一个，恐惧的表情出现在他们脸上，Remus在他们的牛仔裤开始明显变暗之前闻到了气味。

“Poor loves,” Remus chuckled. Even Grant stopped tugging his sleeve, then, and stared in disbelief. “可怜的小家伙们，”Remus笑着说。即使Grant也停止了拉扯他的袖子，目瞪口呆地看着。

“Have you pissed yourselves?!”

The three humiliated men started shouting insults then - each one worse than the last, but it didn’t matter. Remus and Grant were both practically hysterical.

“Come on,” Remus said, slinging an arm around Grant’s shoulder, “Let’s go.”

He did not release them until they were two streets away, locked inside the flat.

It was hugely risky, doing magic on a busy street in central London in front of muggles. But Remus couldn’t work himself up to feel guilty about it; he was jubilant. 在繁忙的伦敦市中心街道上对麻瓜施展魔法非常冒险。但Remus没法对这件事感到内疚；他感到非常高兴。

It didn’t seem like Grant understood what had happened—he was pretty drunk, and mostly just relieved to be safe, so Remus thought he’d got away with it. Back in the flat he cracked out the whisky to toast his own success—this was met with roaring approval from Grant. Grant似乎没明白发生了什么——他很醉，主要是对安全感到宽慰，所以Remus觉得他没事了。回到公寓后，他拿出威士忌来庆祝自己的成功——Grant对此大加赞赏。

Sirius wasn’t back yet, and Remus decided not to care about that, either. Most likely he’d decided to stay at the Potters’ for the night. Remus dug out some blankets and pillows to make up a bed on the couch for Grant, and then they settled in for another few hours of drinking and smoking and laughing. Sirius还没回来，Remus决定不去在意这个。很可能他决定在Potters家过夜。Remus找出了一些毯子和枕头，在沙发上铺成床，然后他们又喝酒、抽烟、笑了几个小时。时间开始扭曲；随着Remus的醉意加深，时间变得越来越伸缩不定。

It must have been almost two in the morning when they hit the bottom of the bottle. Remus ran his finger around the bottom of his glass tumbler, then sucked it. 当他们喝光了酒瓶底部时，可能已经快到凌晨两点了。Remus用手指沿着玻璃杯的底部转动，然后舔了舔。

“Ungh.” Grant whined from the sofa, “Gotta give up the booze. New year’s resolution.” “呃。”Grant从沙发上抱怨道，“得戒酒了。新年决心。”

“Ha.” Remus barked, slouching down in his armchair, rolling a cigarette. “哈。”Remus大笑着，靠在扶手椅上，卷着烟。

 

“Remusss?” Grant asked, dopily, his head lolling over the arm of the couch, blonde curls tumbling back from his upside-down face. “Remusss？”Grant傻乎乎地问，他的头垂在沙发的扶手上，金色的卷发从他倒立的脸上垂下。

“Yeah?” Remus slurred in response.

“Can I ask you summink?”

“Yeah.”

“‘ave you got a plan?”

“A plan?” Remus frowned, confused and bleary.

“For what you’re gonna do wiv your life, y’know.”

“Oh.” Remus scratched his head, arms slow and heavy. “I dunno. You?”

“Dunno.” Grant sighed. “Been thinking. Maybe I wanna just find a girl or summink. Get married.”

“Get married ?!” Remus choked. “Christ, you’re pissed.”

“It might not be awful!” Grant defended himself, “Don’t mind spending time wiv girls. They can be fun.”

“Yeah, but… y’know, if you got married you’d be expected to...” Remus gestured delicately. Grant snorted.萊姆斯小心翼翼地做了個手勢。格蘭特哼了一聲。

“She might not wanna do it much. Anyway, might not hate it. Never given it a try, ‘ave I?”

Remus put his fag between his teeth, thoughtfully. “I did, once.”

“Oh yeah?” Grant sat up interested, “And?”

 

“It was ok.” He shrugged, lighting up. “Not much to say about it really. Mostly just embarrassing. But we’re still friends and stuff.”

 

 

“Can’t be that bad then.” Grant sighed, leaning back once more. He looked sad, and Remus wished he knew how to cheer him up. Grant reached his hand out towards Remus, who sighed and handed him the newly lit cigarette. He began to roll another. “那就没那么糟糕了。”Grant叹了口气，再次靠回去。他看起来很伤心，Remus希望自己知道怎么让他开心起来。Grant伸出手向Remus要烟，Remus叹了口气，把刚点燃的香烟递给他，然后开始卷另一支。

Grant sighed, rolling his head back and blowing plumes of smoke up at the ceiling. “They just always let me down, that’s all. Men.” Grant叹了口气，把头仰回去，把烟雾吹向天花板。“他们总是让我失望，仅此而已。男人。”

“Not always,” Remus said, not liking the melancholy turn things were taking. “不总是这样，”Remus说，不喜欢事情变得如此忧郁的样子。

“No,” Grant replied wistfully, glancing up, meeting Remus’s eye, “No, I s’pose you never did.” “不，”Grant若有所思地回答，抬眼看向Remus，“不，我想你从未让我失望。”

Remus felt a flutter of warm pleasure at that—though maybe it was because he was just so drunk. Grant was still staring at him intensely, and smiling a bit now. Something passed between them. A very small thing; but something. Remus感到一阵温暖的愉悦——虽然也许是因为他喝得太醉了。Grant依然紧盯着他，现在微微地笑了笑。两人之间有了某种默契。很小的一点，但确实存在。

The door opened and Sirius entered, bringing the winter chill in with him. He stopped in his tracks when he saw Grant, who scrambled to sit up right. 门打开了，Sirius走了进来，把冬天的寒冷带了进来。当他看到Grant时，停下了脚步，Grant急忙坐直了身子。

“...hello.” Sirius said, eyes darting back and forth cautiously. Remus never had guests over—let alone muggles. “...你好。”Sirius说，眼睛小心翼翼地来回瞟动。Remus从未招待过客人——更不用说麻瓜了。

“Hiya mate!” Grant stood up quickly, extending a hand across the coffee table, the empty whisky bottle on top. Sirius shook it, politely. “嗨，朋友！”Grant迅速站起身，把手伸过咖啡桌，上面摆着空的威士忌瓶。Sirius礼貌地握了握手。

“Grant’s celebrating the end of his exams,” Remus explained, feeling guilty but not sure why. “Grant在庆祝期末考试结束，”Remus解释道，感到内疚但不确定原因。

“Oh, congratulations,” Sirius nodded, his expression guarded. “哦，恭喜，”Sirius点了点头，表情警惕。

“Cheers!” Grant grinned, “‘ave a drink? Oh bugger, we’ve ‘ad it all...” “干杯！”Grant笑道，“要不要喝一杯？哦，该死，我们已经喝光了...”

“It’s fine.” Sirius folded his arms across his chest and raised an eyebrow, putting on his bored aristocrat routine. “I’m going to bed.” “没关系。”Sirius把胳膊抱在胸前，抬起一只眉毛，摆出一副无聊贵族的样子。“我要去睡觉了。”

He didn’t give Remus so much as a second glance, just walked through the living room, down the hall to the bedroom. 他没再看Remus一眼，直接走过客厅，沿着走廊去卧室。

“‘Ave I got you in trouble?” Grant whispered. Remus shook his head,

“He’s just tired. I’d better…”

“Oh yeah, ‘course. I’m knackered, anyway - thanks again for letting me stay.”

“Any time.” Remus smiled, meaning it, “Thanks for inviting me out. I really needed it.” He patted Grant’s shoulder as he left.

Sirius was undressing. He ignored Remus, who closed the door quietly behind himself and sat on the end of the bed.

“How did the mission go?” He asked, gently, “Is James--”

“A muggle in the flat, Remus?!” Sirius snapped, “Did you even think about the danger?!”

“What danger?” Remus frowned, confused.

“There’s a war on! This place is supposed to be a safe house, it’s supposed to be locked down tighter than Gringotts!”

“Funny.” Remus said, flatly, “I thought it was supposed to be our home.”

Sirius didn’t respond, just glowered, tying the string on his pyjama bottoms. Remus rubbed the back of his neck, sighing, “Look, he lives in Brighton; I couldn’t have just abandoned him at a train station, he was plastered.” Remus tried to explain.

“So the solution was to get even more plastered?” Sirius shot back.“所以解決辦法就是塗更多的膏藥？”天狼星反擊。

“ Sonoro Quiescis .” Remus said, casting a silencing charm on the bedroom - the first time they’d needed it since Hogwarts. “If you want a fight,” he said, stretching his arms out invitingly, “Let’s go, I’m more than happy to oblige.” “如果你想打架，”他說道，並邀請地伸出雙臂，“我們走吧，我非常樂意效勞。”

“I don’t want to fight, I want to sleep.” Sirius said.

 

“Ok, fine.” Remus shrugged. He pulled off his jumper, t-shirt coming with it, and began changing for bed too. Sirius got in under the duvet and watched him, still scowling. He definitely did want a fight.天狼星鑽進羽絨被下面看著他，仍然皺著眉頭。他確實想打架。

“It’s Christmas.” Remus muttered, “Sorry if I wanted to squeeze a tiny bit of joy out of the season.”

“You couldn’t wait, could you? The second I left the house you had to--”

“You’re always leaving! Am I supposed to sit around worrying myself sick all night?! I still exist when you’re not here, you know, I still need to talk to people sometimes.”

“Ha!” Sirius scoffed, “You want someone to pour your heart out to, all of a sudden? That’s rich.” “哈！”Sirius冷笑道，“突然想找人倾诉？真是够讽刺的。”

“Go fuck yourself!” Remus yelled at the top of his voice. “去你妈的！”Remus用尽全力大喊。

“Go and fuck your muggle! That’s obviously what he’s here for!” Sirius shot back. Remus reeled as if he’d been struck. He stared at Sirius, and saw the hurt in his eyes. Was this all just boring old run-of-the-mill jealousy? “去操你的麻瓜吧！显然他就是为了这个来的！”Sirius反击道。Remus如同被击中般摇晃了一下。他盯着Sirius，看到他眼中的伤痛。这难道只是普通的嫉妒吗？

Remus forced himself to relax, to lower his shoulders and unclench his jaw. He closed his eyes, breathing in. Remus强迫自己放松，放下肩膀，放松下颚。他闭上眼睛，深吸了一口气。

“Grant’s on the couch because he’s my friend and I didn’t want any harm to come to him.” He said, very steadily. “And I’m in here with you, because there’s nobody else I’d rather be in a room with. Even when you’re being a massive tosser.” “Grant在沙发上因为他是我的朋友，我不想让他受到任何伤害。”他很平稳地说。“而我在这里陪着你，因为没有人比你更值得我待在一个房间里。即使你有时像个大混蛋。”

Sirius’s lips pursed, then relaxed. He looked very much like he wanted to keep arguing, but had nothing left to say. In the end he just slumped back in the bed, arms folded, and said to the ceiling, “You’re a massive tosser.” Sirius的嘴唇紧抿，然后放松。他看起来很想继续争论，但无话可说。最后他只是靠在床上，双臂交叉，望着天花板，说道，“你是个大混蛋。”

Remus laughed, finished changing, and climbed onto the bed, crawling towards Sirius. “我就是你的大混蛋。”他笑了，换好衣服，爬上床，向Sirius爬去。

“I’m your massive tosser.” He reached up for the edge of the duvet and pulled it down, peeling it back from Sirius’s body. Sirius allowed it, watching Remus, who started to untangle the knot of string on Sirius’s pyjama bottoms. He pulled those down next, and licked his lips. “Let me make it up to you?” “我是你的大混蛋。”他伸手拉开被子的一边，把它从Sirius的身体上拉下来。Sirius允许了，看着Remus开始解开Sirius睡裤上的绳结。他接着拉下睡裤，舔了舔嘴唇。“让我弥补一下好吗？”

Sirius bit his lip, nodded, then arched his back, and they didn’t speak again for hours. Sirius咬了咬嘴唇，点了点头，然后拱起背部，他们接下来的几个小时里再没说话。

In the morning, Grant had gone. 早晨时，Grant已经离开了。

Notes:Songs:
- I Wanna Be Straight - Ian Drury & The Blockheads (one of my fave songs atm - 'straight' as in mending your ways/going legit, rather than heterosexual.)
- Duchess - The Stranglers (the song Sirius is singing to himself in the garage - also headcanon this as Mary's theme song lol)

British-isms
- Tube - the London Underground transport system. Sirius and Remus live in Chinatown/Soho, so their nearest station in Leicester Square.
- Old man's pub - the kind of pub old men go to. Actually that one's hard to explain unless you've been out drinking in the UK.
- Everything Grant says - I kind of write his speech phonetically, and he has a strong London accent (mostly dropping h's/turning 'th' sounds into 'v' sounds), so let me know if it's just impossible to understand and I'll soften it.

 

Chapter 168: The War: Spring & Summer 1980 

You know I'm born to lose,

and gambling's for fools.

But that's the way I like it baby

I don't wanna live forever

 

That January, just over a year after his mother’s funeral, Remus attended another memorial service - this time for Fleamont and Euphemia Potter.

 They passed away within hours of each other in the final bleak days of December. Their loss was felt immensely, and not only by the members of the Order. The Potter mansion was full for weeks with visitors, mourners and old friends, and every one of them had a story of some kindness James’s parents had performed.

 

“Euphemia always said I could ask her anything when I saw her at St Mungo’s.” Marlene sobbed, “She was such a brilliant healer, I wish I’d known her longer.” “Euphemia总是说，只要我在圣芒戈遇到她，就可以问她任何问题。”Marlene抽泣道，“她是如此出色的治疗师，我希望我能认识她更久一点。”

“They were so kind to us after we eloped,” Andromeda said, holding Ted’s hand and bouncing her daughter on her hip, “Checked in on us all the time, made sure we never struggled for anything… I just can’t believe they’re gone…” “我们私奔后，他们对我们非常好。”Andromeda说道，握着Ted的手，一边抱着女儿，“他们总是时刻关心我们，确保我们没有困难……我真的不敢相信他们已经离开了……”

“If our home is even half as welcoming as theirs, I’ll be proud.” Arthur Weasley added, cleaning his glasses, which had grown misty. “如果我们的家能有他们家的一半温馨，那我会感到自豪。”Arthur Weasley补充道，擦拭着已经起雾的眼镜。

“The very best of wizard kind,” Dumbledore intoned in the speech he gave at the service. “A beacon of understanding, tolerance, good humour and community - all those values we hold most dear.” “巫师界的最佳代表，”邓布利多在葬礼上说道。“理解、宽容、幽默和社区的灯塔——所有我们最珍视的价值观。”

“Sort of fitting to have them go at Christmas,” one wizened old crone said at the wake, “Always loved coming to the Potters’ boxing day party.” “他们在圣诞节离世似乎有些合适，”一个年迈的老太太在守夜时说，“总是喜欢去波特家的节礼日派对。”

“I’ll miss Effie’s mince pies!” An old man added. “我会怀念Effie的肉馅饼！”一个老人补充道。

“I’ll miss Monty’s home brew!” Another cackled. A smatter of fond laughter, followed by tender silence as everyone recalled the Potters’ limitless hospitality. “我会怀念Monty的自制啤酒！”另一个人笑道。大家回忆起波特家的无尽好客，笑声中夹杂着温柔的沉默。

Remus kept his own memories of the Potters to himself, because he felt he had the least claim on them. Still, he would never forget that it was they who had taken him in when he’d found himself homeless at seventeen, and they who had helped him locate his mother. Remus将自己对波特家的回忆藏在心中，因为他觉得自己最没有资格拥有这些回忆。尽管如此，他永远不会忘记是他们在他十七岁时无家可归时收留了他，也是在他们帮助他找到母亲。

In a way it was different from the earlier deaths in the Order, because the Potters had died at an advanced age, and they hadn’t been murdered - so there was more room for happy memories. 在某种程度上，这与之前在凤凰社中的死亡不同，因为波特夫妇是年长时去世的，并且他们并没有被谋杀——因此有更多的空间来怀念快乐的回忆。

It still didn’t feel very fair. Time is meaningless, when it comes to the people you love, Remus reflected. Eleven months had not been enough time with Hope - and twenty years had probably not been enough for James. 这仍然觉得不太公平。时间对你爱的人来说是毫无意义的，Remus反思道。与Hope度过的十一个月不够——而二十年可能对James来说也不够。

Sirius, Peter and Remus silently made the decision to pull together for James. He had been the source of the marauders’ strength ever since they were children; had selflessly defended or supported each of them at one time or another, and there was no question that they return the favour now, in his darkest hour. Sirius、Peter和Remus默默地决定团结起来支持James。他一直是捣蛋鬼们的力量源泉，从他们小时候开始；曾无私地保护或支持他们中的每一个人，如今在他最黑暗的时刻，他们理所当然地要回报这一份恩情。

They took up the task of greeting as many of the droppers-by as possible, and keeping them away from James, who had quite enough to deal with. For a solid two weeks, the three of them spent their days accepting bunches of flowers and pots of home cooking (which was useful, because Gully the house elf had been inconsolable, and spent his time curled up under the aga sobbing and drinking butterbeer). Lily handled everything financial or legal - Remus couldn’t help but admire how quickly she took to wizard property law - while Alice and Molly helped her manage the house and pack up the things which needed to be packed up. 他们承担了迎接尽可能多的来访者的任务，确保他们远离James，因为他已经有足够的事情要处理。整整两个星期，三人每天接受花束和家常菜（这很有用，因为Gully那个房子精灵一直无法自拔，时间都花在了在aga炉子下蜷缩着哭泣和喝黄油啤酒上）。Lily处理所有的财务和法律事务——Remus不禁钦佩她对巫师财产法的掌握速度——而Alice和Molly则帮助她管理房子和整理需要打包的东西。

It was grimly fitting that 1980 began with death. Years later, it would mark a turning point in the war for Remus; as if losing the Potters had shaken the very foundations of reality. After their funeral less and less things began to make sense. Things he had once felt sure of became uncertain, and the - already small - circle of people he trusted and loved began to shrink further. 1980年以死亡开端，令人感到凄凉。多年后，这将标志着战争中的一个转折点，对Remus来说；仿佛失去波特夫妇动摇了现实的根基。在他们的葬礼之后，越来越多的事情开始变得不再清晰。他曾经感到确信的事情变得不确定，曾经很小的他信任和爱的圈子变得更加缩小了。

For the rest of January, Sirius and Remus passed each other like ships in the night - one would be up late, the other awake with the dawn for some mission or other. They were both determined to make up the slack for James, and it kept them busier than ever. One or both of them might sleep at the Potters one night, or else stay with someone else in the order, for safety's sake. 在一月余下的时间里，Sirius和Remus像夜晚的船只一样错过——一个熬夜，另一个天明时分醒来执行任务。他们都决心弥补James的空缺，这使他们比以往任何时候都忙碌。他们中的一个或两个可能会在波特家过夜，或者为了安全起见与凤凰社中的其他人待在一起。

Mourning Fleamont and Euphemia on top of all that meant that the short hours they did spend together were filled with silence. 悼念Fleamont和Euphemia使得他们在一起的短暂时光充满了沉默。

Sirius had cried, the day they found out. They both had, but the pain was more raw for Sirius, “It’s not fair! It’s not fair!” He repeated over and over, eyes wild and desperate. Sirius在他们得知消息的那天哭了。他们都哭了，但对Sirius来说，痛苦更为尖锐，“这不公平！这不公平！”他一次次重复，眼神狂乱而绝望。

Remus carefully put his own grief aside in order to be the stronger one, and found that things were easier when he focussed his attention on helping Sirius. Remus小心翼翼地把自己的悲伤放在一边，以便成为那个更坚强的人，并发现当他将注意力集中在帮助Sirius上时，事情变得容易些。

It was very hard work, and for a while it seemed there would be nothing at all to feel happy about again. Their only piece of good news came completely out of the blue (as good news generally does) one Sunday in early February. 这非常辛苦，一段时间似乎没有什么能让人再感到快乐。唯一的好消息完全是出乎意料的（就像好消息通常一样），发生在二月初的一个星期天。

 

Sirius was out with James - not on a mission, for once. As boys, James and Sirius had crawled into each others beds whenever one of them was unhappy. As men, they spent long afternoons rocketing around the countryside on Sirius’s motorbike. Remus was not jealous - if anything it was a relief that he didn’t have to go. Sirius和James出门了——这一次不是执行任务。小时候，每当其中一个不开心时，James和Sirius就会爬进对方的床上。长大后，他们则常常在Sirius的摩托车上飞驰在乡间。Remus并不嫉妒——实际上，他感到宽慰，因为他不需要去。

He was spending the afternoon studying counter curses, which at least made him feel like he was doing something useful. He’d just decided to have a quick break and make himself a pot of tea when an owl pecked on the kitchen window. It bore a note from Lily; ‘ Can you pop over before five? I’ll cook dinner. ’ And of course he got ready to leave at once. It was a good thing too - his own supper plans were beans on toast, which he’d already had three times that week. 他正花时间学习反诅咒，这至少让他觉得自己在做有用的事情。他刚决定休息一下，泡一壶茶时，一只猫头鹰在厨房窗户上啄了啄。它带来了一张Lily的便条；“你能在五点之前过来吗？我会做晚饭。”当然，他立刻准备出门。这也挺好的——他自己的晚餐计划是烤面包上的豆子，这周他已经吃过三次了。

It was very cold still, the frost hung around for weeks that February, and spring took a lifetime to arrive. Remus was grateful to be able to simply step through the fireplace in their flat and instantly appear in the Potters’ living room without having to go outside. He hoped Sirius was wrapped up properly; wind chill was no joke at the speeds he drove. 那时候还是非常寒冷，二月的霜冻持续了好几个星期，春天似乎来得很慢。Remus感激自己能简单地通过他们公寓的壁炉直接出现在Potters的客厅里，而不需要外出。他希望Sirius穿得暖和；风寒在他驾驶的速度下可不是开玩笑的。

“I’m here!” Remus called, brushing soot and floo power off his shabby robes. “我到了！”Remus喊道，一边抖掉他破旧长袍上的烟灰和火粉。

Hieronymus the cat mewed angrily at him - he had disturbed the warm spot on the rug. Hieronymus猫生气地喵叫——他打扰了地毯上的暖和地方。

“Kitchen!” Lily called back. “厨房！”Lily回应道。

Remus wandered through. The house felt empty, and had for weeks now, but the kitchen was as warm and comforting as it had ever been. Lily was sitting at the broad oak table, pouring over a recipe book, her wand holding her hair up in a messy bun. There was a self stirring pot on the stovetop, and something delicious smelling in the oven. Remus走了过去。房子感觉空荡荡的，已经有好几个星期了，但厨房还是像往常一样温暖舒适。Lily坐在宽大的橡木桌旁，专注于一本食谱，她的魔杖把头发束成一个凌乱的发髻。炉子上有一个自动搅拌的锅，烤箱里散发出美味的香气。

“Hello gorgeous,” she grinned, looking up at him. “你好，漂亮的，”她笑着看着他。

“Hiya,” he waved, “Can I help with anything?” “嗨，”他挥了挥手，“我能帮忙做些什么吗？”

“Knives and forks would be great,” she nodded at the dresser against the wall. “We’ll eat in here, I think, it’s cosier.” “刀叉会很有用，”她指了指墙上的餐具柜。“我们还是在这里吃吧，我觉得这里更温馨。”

“Just the two of us?” He asked, going to pull out the cutlery. “只有我们两个？”他问道，一边去拿餐具。

“Five,” she shook her head, “Peter’s due in a minute, and the boys shouldn’t be too much longer… well, depending on Sirius.” “五个人，”她摇头道，“Peter马上就到，其他人应该也不会太久……嗯，还得看Sirius。”

“Eh?” Remus frowned, the note hadn’t mentioned Sirius. Lily was blushing. “嗯？”Remus皱了皱眉，那张便条里没有提到Sirius。Lily脸红了。

“Er… so I asked you here because I have something to tell you…” “呃……我请你来的原因是我有件事要告诉你……”

Remus’s hands began to shake, and he dropped the butterknife he’d been holding. No news was ever good, these days, and he’d developed a bit of a paranoia around announcements. Remus的手开始颤抖，他掉落了手中的黄油刀。现在没有什么消息是好的，他对各种公告已经有了些许偏执。

“It’s good!” Lily said, quickly, seeing the look on his face, “I promise! It’s just that, er… we thought it might be best, James thought it might be best, if he told Sirius on his own, you know, one on one… after what happened last time…” “这是好消息！”Lily迅速说道，看着他脸上的表情，“我保证！只是，呃……我们觉得最好，James觉得最好，由他单独告诉Sirius，你知道的，一对一……在上次发生了什么之后……”

“Last time?” Remus frowned. They couldn’t be getting married again, surely. “You’re not splitting up?! “上次？”Remus皱眉道。他们不会要再结婚吧？“你们不会分开了吗？！”

“Remus, I said a good thing!” Lily laughed, lightly. “Honestly, you always think the worst…” “Remus，我说的是好事！”Lily轻声笑道，“老实说，你总是想到最坏的……”

She stood up, clearing her books from the table. Remus took a good look at her. She was a bit thicker around the hips - not that he’d ever say such a thing to one of his oldest and best friends. And anyway, it suited her, she was still uncommonly pretty, in his opinion. But she smelled slightly different, too. 她站起来，收拾桌上的书。Remus仔细看了看她。她的臀部稍微有些丰盈——虽然他绝不会对他最老朋友之一说这样的事。不过，她这样的身材很适合她，在他看来，她依然异常美丽。但她的气味也有些不同。

He blinked, and shook his head, slamming the cutlery drawer shut so hard it rattled, and Lily jumped. 他眨了眨眼，摇了摇头，把餐具抽屉猛地关上，发出响声，Lily吓了一跳。

“You’re pregnant!” “你怀孕了！”

She blushed harder, and nodded, face stretched into the broadest smile Remus had seen on anyone in months. Lost for words, he hurried around the table to hug her, “Amazing!” He choked, suddenly very emotional, “Brilliant! Oh my god, Lily!” 她更加脸红，点了点头，脸上绽放出几个月来Remus见过的最宽广的笑容。无言以对，他匆忙绕过桌子去拥抱她，“太棒了！”他哽咽着说，突然非常激动，“太棒了！哦天呐，Lily！”

“I know!” She squealed, “Due in July! You’ve no idea how hard it’s been to stay quiet!” “我知道！”她兴奋地喊道，“七月份的预产期！你不知道保持沉默有多么困难！”

Remus stepped back to give her room, and wiped his eyes. Remus退后一步给她空间，擦了擦眼睛。

“Not because of Sirius?” “不是因为Sirius吗？”

“Not just that…” she conceded, “We wanted a proper mourning period… Euphemia and Fleamont knew, of course. It was heartbreaking telling them. But I have to admit, I am slightly concerned about how Sirius will take it…” “不仅仅是这样……”她承认道，“我们想要一个适当的哀悼期……当然，Euphemia和Fleamont知道了。告诉他们的时候非常心碎。但我必须承认，我有点担心Sirius会怎么想……”

“If he says anything other than congratulations I’ll box his ears!” Remus said, fiercely. Lily laughed, “If you say anything other than congratulations, I’ll give you a good thrashing!” Remus说道，语气坚定。Lily笑了，

“You’ll have to get in the queue behind me and James.” “你得排在我和James之后。”

Remus laughed, still wiping his eyes, and went to lay the table. No sooner had he set down the last plate, than a rumbling roar could be heard in the distance, getting closer. Lily looked up at him and bit her lip. He just smiled at her, “It’ll be fine.” Remus笑了，继续擦拭眼睛，去摆放餐具。刚把最后一个盘子放下，远处传来隆隆的轰鸣声，越来越近。Lily抬头看着他，咬了咬嘴唇。他只是对她笑了笑，“一切都会好的。”

Sirius had been parking his bike on the back patio. Remus often wondered what Euphemia might make of that - but of course she could never refuse her blue eyed boy anything, and would have forgiven the muddy tire marks in her lawn with motherly indulgence. Sirius一直在后院的露台上停车。Remus常常想Euphemia会怎么想——但当然，她绝不会拒绝她那个蓝眼睛的孩子，甚至会以母亲般的宽容原谅他在草坪上留下的泥迹。

The patio doors rattled open, and Sirius strode in, hair still windswept from flying, nose and cheeks pink from the cold. He was smiling, smiling so wide that Remus’s heart skipped a beat, and he felt that old schoolboy crush resurface in him. 露台门被打开了，Sirius大步走了进来，头发还在飞舞，鼻子和脸颊因寒冷而泛红。他笑着，笑得如此灿烂，Remus的心跳漏了一拍，他感到那种老旧的校园情愫再次涌上心头。

“Mrs Prongs!” Sirius went straight for Lily, arms wide, and enveloped her, kissing the top of her head, “Bloody brilliant!” “Mrs Prongs！”Sirius径直走向Lily，张开双臂，抱住她，亲吻她的头顶，“真是太棒了！”

Remus sighed with relief, and went to shake hands with James, who’d come in behind Sirius, hair and scarf flying, wind-burned face glowing like a beacon of joy. Remus松了一口气，去和James握手，James跟在Sirius后面进来，头发和围巾飞扬，因风而红润的脸庞像是快乐的灯塔。

“A kid!” Was all Remus could think to say, “You’re having a fucking kid!” “一个孩子！”这是Remus能想到的唯一话语，“你们要有一个孩子了！”

“Too bloody right, Moony.”

“Sit down!” Sirius pulled out a chair for Lily, ushering her into it, “Merlin, Moony, what sort of gentleman are you, letting Lily do all the work in her condition?!”

“Oi,” Remus scowled, “I laid the table...”  

“Honestly, I’m fine,” Lily giggled, “But if you boys want to serve dinner, be my guest. Lamb’s in the oven, James, it should be done by now.”

 

 

So the three of them bustled around the kitchen, making quite a bit more noise and mess than was probably necessary. Sirius began whistling ‘Kooks’, James cracked out a bottle of champagne to toast (with butterbeer for Lily) and Remus just grinned until his cheeks hurt, watching his friends be happy together. 于是他们三个在厨房里忙碌，弄得比必要的要吵闹和混乱得多。Sirius开始吹口哨，哼着“Kooks”，James打开了一瓶香槟祝酒（Lily则是用黄油啤酒），而Remus则笑得脸颊都疼了，看着朋友们一起幸福的样子。

Then Peter arrived, and it began all over again, their happiness multiplying as they sat down to a perfect family dinner. It was just what everyone needed. 然后Peter到了，欢乐再次升温，他们坐下来享受完美的家庭晚餐，幸福感倍增。这正是大家所需要的。

“How did it even happen?!” Peter exclaimed, mopping up gravy with his last yorkshire pudding. “这究竟是怎么发生的？！”Peter惊呼道，一边用最后一个Yorkshire布丁吸着肉汁。

“Well, Wormtail,” Sirius smirked, “When a witch and a wizard love each other very much…” “嗯，Wormtail，”Sirius狞笑道，“当一位女巫和一位巫师非常相爱的时候……”

“Shuddup,” Peter laughed, kicking him under the table, “You know what I meant…” “闭嘴，”Peter笑着说，一边在桌子下踢了他一脚，“你知道我什么意思……”

“It just happened,” James shrugged, “We might have got a little bit careless around Halloween…” “就是这么发生的，”James耸耸肩，“我们可能在万圣节那段时间有点粗心……”

“James!” Lily slapped his arm lightly with the back of her hand, “No need for detail, I‘m sure Moony doesn’t want to hear all that.” “James！”Lily用手背轻轻拍了拍他的胳膊，“没必要细说，我确定Moony不想听这些。”

“Why me?” Remus furrowed his brow, “为什么是我？”Remus皱起眉头问道。

“Oh well… you know, I just know you prefer to be discreet about… um…” Lily fumbled for words. Remus folded his arms, staring at them all with mock-indignation. “哦，好吧……你知道，我只是知道你喜欢对……嗯……”Lily词不达意地说道。Remus双臂交叉，带着假装的愤怒看着他们所有人。

“You all think I’m a prude!” “你们都觉得我很保守！”

They all burst out laughing, and Sirius patted him on the shoulder affectionately, “Don’t worry, Moony - they just don’t know you like I know you.” 他们都哄堂大笑，Sirius亲切地拍了拍他的肩膀，“别担心，Moony——他们只是不像我一样了解你。”

“What’s that supposed to mean--” Peter started, but Remus - seeing where the conversation was heading - quickly intervened, “What do you mean--” Peter开始问，但Remus看出谈话的方向，迅速插话，

“Have you got any ideas for a name, yet?” “你们已经想到名字了吗？”

“No, not really,” Lily said, still chuckling, “A family name would be nice, but--” “没有，真的没有，”Lily笑着说，“一个家族名字会很好，但——”

“Whatever you do,” Sirius said, “Call the poor kid something normal. No constellations, for godric’s sake.” “无论你们做什么，”Sirius说道，“给可怜的孩子起个正常的名字。天上的星座名字，天哪，别来这一套。”

“I’ll drink to that,” Remus raised his glass and drained it. It was his third, but he didn’t think anyone had noticed, and besides, they were celebrating. “我为此干杯，”Remus举起酒杯，喝了下去。这是他的第三杯，但他觉得没有人注意到，而且，他们在庆祝。

“When will you know what it is?” Peter asked “你们什么时候知道宝宝是什么性别？”Peter问道。

“We’re not calling it Peter,” James teased him. “我们不会叫他Peter的，”James调侃道。

“Bagsy godfather!” Sirius shouted. “我抢做教父！”Sirius喊道。

“You can’t bagsy godfather!” Peter said, outraged, “你不能抢教父！”Peter愤怒地说道，

“Just did,” Sirius poked his tongue out. “刚刚抢了，”Sirius吐了吐舌头。

 

And so, as per usual, it was James and Lily who managed to bring everyone out of that gloomy winter slog, just in time for spring. The marauders and their friends faced the rest of their year with fresh eyes and renewed purpose. Because fighting a war was one thing - but fighting for the Potters’ future child made every challenge seem more worthwhile. 于是，像往常一样，James和Lily成功地把大家从阴沉的冬天拖了出来，正好赶上春天的到来。玛拉uders和他们的朋友们以全新的眼光和重新振作的目的迎接了剩下的一年。因为战争是一个方面，但为了Potters未来的孩子而战斗让每一个挑战都变得更加值得。

What was more, they weren’t the only ones celebrating good news. Arthur and Molly welcomed yet another red-haired son that March, and Alice announced that she and Frank were also expecting in the summer. 更重要的是，他们并不是唯一庆祝好消息的人。Arthur和Molly在三月迎来了另一个红发儿子，而Alice则宣布她和Frank也将在夏天迎来新生儿。

“Imagine that!” Mary said, clearing away tea cups and mugs of coffee left behind from an Order meeting, “Their kids are all going to grow up together, and go to Hogwarts together… it’s sort of nice, isn’t it?” “想象一下！”Mary一边清理Order会议后留下的茶杯和咖啡杯一边说，“他们的孩子们都将一起长大，一起去霍格沃茨……这真是太好了，不是吗？”

Remus nodded in agreement. He would have given anything to be raised by any one of these people; to have a childhood surrounded by magic and love and laughter. Remus点头同意。他愿意为了被这些人中的任何一个抚养长大而付出一切；拥有一个被魔法、爱和笑声环绕的童年。

He had never given much thought to children before - his own childhood had been such a disaster he didn’t think he was fit to be a parent. But watching James and Lily do it; that actually sounded pretty nice. 他以前从未认真考虑过孩子——他的童年是如此的糟糕，他认为自己不适合成为父母。但看到James和Lily这样做；这实际上听起来相当不错。

Of course, Remus’s enthusiasm for ‘Baby Prongs’ paled in comparison to Sirius’s overwhelming excitement. 当然，Remus对“Baby Prongs”的热情相比Sirius的激动显得微不足道。

“It’s going to be so much fun, Moony!” he babbled, coming in one May afternoon from another spur of the moment shopping trip, “Imagine them all on brooms! The Order of the Phoenix Quidditch team!” “这将会非常有趣，Moony！”他喋喋不休地说，一天五月的下午刚刚从另一次临时购物回来，“想象一下他们都在扫帚上！凤凰社的魁地奇队！”

“Er… how old do you need to be to ride a broom?” Remus asked, eyeing his packages nervously. None of them looked broom-shaped, but you never knew with Sirius. “呃……骑扫帚需要多大年纪？”Remus问道，神情紧张地看着他的包裹。没有一个看起来像扫帚，但你永远不知道Sirius会带回来什么。

“These are mostly books and clothes,” Sirius reassured him, laughing lightly, “And some toys, just little things…” “这些大多是书和衣服，”Sirius安慰他，轻轻地笑着，“还有一些玩具，只是小东西……”

“This kid is going to be so spoilt…” Remus tutted. “这个孩子会被宠坏的……”Remus发出叹息声。

“Good,” Sirius poked his tongue out. “Doesn’t do anyone any good to be brought up joyless, does it, Moony?” He raised an eyebrow and Remus ducked his head, ashamed, and he never chastised Sirius about it again. “很好，”Sirius吐了吐舌头，“没有人会从没有快乐的成长中受益，对吧，Moony？”他挑起眉毛，Remus低下头，感到羞愧，他再也没有批评过Sirius。

* * *

In June, after the full moon, Remus was invited for another meeting with Moody and Ferox. A year older and wiser, he requested not to meet them at the Auror’s office this time. They agreed - they didn’t have much choice. Remus had grown very flippant about his role as unofficial werewolf liaison officer, and it probably showed. At least Moody didn’t boss him around much any more. 六月满月过后，Remus被邀请再次与Moody和Ferox见面。一年更老更聪明，他这次要求不要在傲罗办公室见面。他们同意了——他们没有太多选择。Remus对自己作为非官方狼人联络官的角色变得非常轻浮，这可能已经显露出来了。至少Moody不再对他发号施令了。

They met in a small working man’s pub just outside of Derby. Remus arrived first and got himself a pint, then sat down with a newspaper he’d picked up at the train station. He took out the page with the crossword on it and folded it up neatly into his breast pocket. Sirius liked doing crosswords. 他们在德比郊外的一家小工人酒吧见面。Remus先到，给自己倒了一品脱啤酒，然后拿着他在火车站买的报纸坐下。他把填字游戏那页取出来，整齐地折叠进胸前的口袋。Sirius喜欢做填字游戏。

He chose a seat in the back of the pub, because it was quiet, but also because the seat was a high-backed wooden pew, which was good for his back. He was hurting after the last moon, still, and tried to sit straight. 他选择了酒吧后面的一个座位，因为那里很安静，而且那个座位是一个高背的木椅，对他的背很好。上次满月后他仍然疼痛，试图坐直。

Ferox got there a few minutes later. Ferox几分钟后到达。

“Alright there, our Kev?” He nodded, sitting down on the three-legged stool opposite Remus. “怎么样，我们的Kev？”他点头示意，坐在Remus对面的三条腿凳子上。

They had all received instructions to start using fake names when out on Order business, in case anyone listened in. Remus wasn’t overly fond of ‘Kevin’, but he had to admit it was probably better than his own ridiculous name. When the marauders first heard about the codenames they’d wanted to use Paul, John, George, and Ringo, but Moody told them it was too obvious. 他们都接到指示，在外出执行Order任务时开始使用假名，以防有人偷听。Remus不太喜欢“Kevin”，但他不得不承认，这可能比他自己的荒谬名字更好。当marauders第一次听说这些代号时，他们想用Paul, John, George和Ringo，但Moody告诉他们这太明显了。

“Hello, Norman.” Remus nodded at Ferox. “你好，Norman。”Remus向Ferox点头示意。

“Mr. Thompson won’t be long.” “Thompson先生很快就到。”

“Good. Get you a drink?” “好。要喝点什么吗？”

“Nah, on duty.” “不了，上班呢。”

Remus shrugged and took a glug of his own beer. Ferox watched him with a level expression. “So,” his old teacher asked, “How’s tricks?” Remus耸了耸肩，喝了一大口自己的啤酒。Ferox平静地看着他。“那么，”他的老老师问道，“最近怎么样？”

“Oh, you know,” Remus shrugged again, “We’re all just doing what we can.” “哦，你知道的，”Remus再次耸了耸肩，“我们都在尽力而为。”

“Hear you’ve been busy - got a knack for security, eh?” “听说你很忙——对安全有一套，是吗？”

“Yeah, I’ve been helping out Alice--er… Steffi. Sorry.” “是啊，我一直在帮Alice——呃…Steffi。抱歉。”

Ferox laughed gruffly at Remus’s blunder, Ferox对Remus的失误粗声笑了起来，

“Don’t worry about it. It’s all bollocks anyway. Still, security’s a good talent to have, eh? Something you might fancy doing for the ministry, maybe? After all this is over?” “别担心。这都是胡扯。不过，安全是一项很好的技能，是吗？也许你会想为部里做点什么？等这一切结束后？”

“Security alarms?” Remus frowned. He hadn’t really thought about it before. “I dunno, it’s not really… I mean, I want to help people, obviously, but I’m not sure if… people don’t want someone like me in their homes.” “安全警报？”Remus皱眉。他以前没怎么想过。“我不知道，这不是真的…我是说，我显然想帮助人们，但我不确定…人们不希望像我这样的人进入他们的家。”

“Chin up, lad,” Ferox said, kindly, “It’s not all doom and gloom.” “振作起来，孩子，”Ferox善意地说，“这不全是厄运和阴霾。”

Remus drank again. He was nearly finished, and wondered if he would have time for a second pint. Probably not. Not very professional. Though, it was technically medicinal - his back really hurt. Remus又喝了一口。他快喝完了，想着是否有时间再喝一品脱。可能没有。这不太专业。不过，严格来说，这是药用的——他的背真的很痛。

Moody - ‘Mr. Thompson’ - arrived a few moments later. He was looking more haggard than ever. The war seemed to affect him physically - he had accumulated more scars than anyone Remus knew (except himself, maybe). In return, he had lost more body parts - if Moody wasn’t more careful, Remus thought, he’d end up like old professor Kettleburn. Moody——“Thompson先生”——几分钟后到达。他看起来比以往更加憔悴。战争似乎对他产生了身体上的影响——他比Remus认识的任何人都积累了更多的伤疤（也许除了他自己）。相应地，他失去了更多的身体部位——如果Moody不再小心，Remus想，他会像老教授Kettleburn一样。

“Kevin, Norman,” Moody nodded at them both. “Kevin, Norman，”Moody对他们两个点头。

He was wearing muggle clothes - or at least his approximation of them. A gaudy Hawaiian shirt paired with ancient looking mustard yellow bell-bottoms. Remus had to concentrate to keep a straight face. 他穿着麻瓜衣服——或者至少是他认为的麻瓜衣服。一件华丽的夏威夷衬衫配上古老的芥末黄色喇叭裤。Remus必须集中注意力保持严肃的表情。

“I’ll get straight to business,” he said, taking the third stool around the table. “He’s been seen again. Our mutual acquaintance.” “我就直奔主题了，”他说，坐到桌子旁的第三把凳子上。“他又出现了。我们共同的熟人。”

That meant Greyback. Remus swallowed, nodding, 这意味着Greyback。Remus吞咽了一下，点头，

“Where?” “在哪里？”

“Outside of Dublin. We reckon he’s been keeping a low profile; licking his wounds, but he’s still in you-know-who’s pay.” “都柏林外。他一直保持低调；舔着伤口，但他仍在你知道谁的付费下。”

Remus nodded again. He’d known Greyback wouldn’t be vanquished so easily; he’d always known they would meet again, eventually. Remus再次点头。他知道Greyback不会那么容易被击败；他一直知道他们最终会再次相遇。

“The good news is,” Ferox said, leaning in, “He hasn’t been recruiting - all sources seem to say that most of his pack have left him.” “好消息是，”Ferox靠近说道，“他没有在招募——所有消息来源都说他的大部分狼群已经离开了他。”

“Sources?” Remus looked at him, sharply. “消息来源？”Remus锐利地看着他。

“Well,” Ferox grinned, “I took a little trip to the emerald isle last week.” “嗯，”Ferox咧嘴笑了，“上周我去了翡翠岛。”

“You what?!” Remus was shaken by this news. “You could have been killed!” “你说什么？！”Remus被这个消息震惊了。“你可能会被杀！”

“Calm down, lad,” Moody said, laying his palm on the table. “Norman here’s been on this case since you were a nipper. He knows what he’s doing.” “冷静点，孩子，”Moody说，把手掌放在桌子上。“Norman自你还小时候就一直在处理这个案子。他知道自己在做什么。”

“Ah, he’s just worried, eh Kev?” Ferox nudged him. “啊，他只是担心，对吧，Kev？”Ferox用胳膊肘捅了捅他。

Remus didn’t respond. How could he tell these two men - who were older, more experienced, wiser, and probably more powerful than him - that they were being idiots? It was completely ridiculous that even fifteen years after Lyall Lupin’s death the ministry continued to underestimate Greyback. Refused to learn anything from their mistakes. Remus没有回应。他怎么能告诉这两个比他年长、经验丰富、智慧更多、可能更强大的人，他们在做傻事？即使在Lyall Lupin死后十五年，部里仍然低估Greyback。这完全荒谬。他们拒绝从错误中吸取任何教训。

“You should have told me.” He said, finally. “I could have helped. Advised you, at least.” “你应该告诉我。”他终于说道。“我本可以帮忙的。至少给你们一些建议。”

“I didn’t go alone, don’t worry,” Ferox smiled, “I took young Daniel with me - I mean, er… no, bugger, I’ve forgotten it…” “我不是一个人去的，别担心，”Ferox笑了，“我带了年轻的Daniel——我的意思是，呃…不，该死，我忘了……”

“Danny?!” Remus balked, even more alarmed, “But…” “Danny？！”Remus震惊，更加警觉，“但是……”

“It was nothing personal,” Moody said, “You know more about them than anyone, but after last year, you’re just too close, too recognisable to the pack. We couldn’t risk it.” “这不是针对你个人的，”Moody说，“你比任何人都了解他们，但去年之后，你离他们太近，太容易被认出来了。我们不能冒这个险。”

“I wish you’d told me.” Remus repeated, though he knew it was getting him nowhere. “我希望你们告诉我。”Remus重复道，尽管他知道这无济于事。

“We’re telling you now.” “我们现在告诉你。”

Remus pursed his lips. Danny McKinnon! Greyback must be laughing at them; they just had no idea. Remus紧抿嘴唇。Danny McKinnon！Greyback肯定在嘲笑他们；他们根本不知道。

“So, what, then?” He asked, knowing he was visibly irritated now. “What do you need from me?” “那么，现在呢？”他问道，知道自己现在明显很恼火。“你们需要我做什么？”

“Well, we know he’s on the move. He left Dublin after the last full moon, without a trace. Him and a young female.” “嗯，我们知道他在移动。上次满月后他离开了都柏林，没有留下任何痕迹。他和一个年轻的女性。”

“Livia,” Remus said. “Livia，”Remus说。

“You know who she is?” “你知道她是谁吗？”

“It’s most likely her,” Remus nodded, “She’s his most loyal supporter, she’ll never leave him.” “很可能是她，”Remus点头，“她是他最忠诚的支持者，她永远不会离开他。”

“Could you give us a description? Daniel caught a scent, but we didn’t get eyes on her.” Ferox said, eagerly. “你能给我们一个描述吗？Daniel闻到了气味，但我们没看到她。”Ferox急切地说。

Remus nodded. Remus点头。

“Ok. But you need to tell me, next time--” “好。但是你们下次需要告诉我——”

“Fine, fine,” Moody shook his head impatiently, “We’ll keep you in the loop, where possible and within reason. Now, what can you tell us about this Livia bitch?” “好，好，”Moody不耐烦地摇摇头，“我们会尽可能合理地让你知道情况。现在，你能告诉我们这个Livia的情况吗？”

Remus told them as much as he knew. He felt he was re-treading old territory, but no one ever listened to him anyway. He explained what Livia looked like - that was easy enough, she was hardly an ordinary-looking witch. Remus告诉他们他所知道的一切。他觉得自己又在重复旧话题，但反正没人听他解释。他描述了Livia的外貌——这很容易，她根本不是一个普通的女巫。

“We’ll get them lad, don’t you worry,” Ferox said as he shook Remus’s hand before leaving. He had completely missed the point. “我们会抓住他们的，孩子，别担心，”Ferox在离开前握着Remus的手说。他完全没有抓住重点。

They hadn’t tracked down Castor’s pack - if they were still a pack. Moody thought they’d left the country, and Remus hoped so. He hoped no one ever found them again. By the time they were all ready to go, Remus needed a shot, never mind another pint - his back was twinging with every step, threatening a full-on spasm. And he was in a seriously bad mood. 他们没有追踪到Castor的狼群——如果他们还是一个狼群的话。Moody认为他们已经离开了这个国家，而Remus希望如此。他希望再也没有人找到他们。当他们都准备好离开时，Remus需要打一针，不再想着再喝一品脱——他的每一步都在抽痛，威胁着全身痉挛。而且他的心情非常不好。

He apparated back to London and pushed his front door open so hard the knob banged against the plasterboard. 他幻影移形回到伦敦，把前门推得砰地一声撞上了石膏板。

“Fucking hell!” Sirius jumped out of his seat on the couch. “该死！”Sirius从沙发上跳起来。

Remus blinked at him, embarrassed. Remus眨了眨眼，有些尴尬。

“Sorry. Didn’t know you were in.” “抱歉。不知道你在。”

“What happened?” “发生了什么事？”

“Bloody Moody! Bloody Ferox!” Remus winced as he pulled off his jacket. “该死的Moody！该死的Ferox！”Remus在脱掉夹克时皱了皱眉。

“Does your back still hurt?” Sirius cocked his head, sympathetically. “Come here.” He shuffled back on the couch, pulling his knees up so that Remus could sit in front of him. “你的背还疼吗？”Sirius同情地歪了歪头。“过来。”他在沙发上挪了挪，拉起膝盖让Remus可以坐在他前面。

Remus did, and closed his eyes, sighing gratefully as Sirius began to rub his shoulders firmly, wringing the pain out with his clever fingers. Remus照做了，闭上眼睛，感激地叹了口气，Sirius开始用灵巧的手指坚定地揉捏他的肩膀，缓解疼痛。

“What happened?” He asked, “They’re not… you don’t have to go again, do you?” “发生了什么？”他问，“他们没有……你不必再去了，对吧？”

“No,” Remus said, “No, just… I dunno, do you ever feel like everyone thinks you’re just some idiotic kid who doesn’t know anything?” “没有，”Remus说，“不，只是……我不知道，你有没有觉得大家都认为你只是个什么都不懂的傻孩子？”

“No one thinks that.” Sirius soothed. “没有人这么想。”Sirius安慰道。

“I know you lot don’t, but… ugh. They just don’t listen to me. I know more about the werewolves than anyone in the Order. I’m Greyback’s prodigal son, for god’s sake!” “我知道你们不会，但……唉。他们就是不听我的。我比Order里任何人都了解狼人。天哪，我是Greyback的浪子！”

“Don’t say that.” Sirius suddenly wrapped his arms around Remus’s waist, pulling him close and tight, as if he was about to bolt. “If Moody and Ferox keep you away from that monster then good.” “别这么说。”Sirius突然把胳膊绕到Remus的腰上，把他紧紧地拉近，好像他随时会逃跑。“如果Moody和Ferox能让你远离那个怪物，那就好。”

Remus leaned into Sirius and didn’t say any more. Remus靠在Sirius身上，再也没有说话。

* * *

Will you stay in our lovers’ story?

If you stay, you won’t be sorry,

‘cuz we believe in you.

Soon you’ll grow, so take a chance

On a couple of kooks, hung up on romancing.

 

31st July 1980

“Remus, wake up!” Sirius shook him hard.

“Piss off.” Remus grunted, covering his head with the duvet, “S’the middle of the night.”

“Who cares?! Come on, it’s time! Baby Prongs is on his way - or her way… their way!”

“What?!” Remus sat bolt upright in bed, “Fuck!”

 

“That’s the spirit!” Sirius cheered, “Get dressed!”

 

 

Remus scrambled out of bed and got dressed so fast he tripped over his trouser legs twice, banging his head on the dresser. “Ow,” he grumbled, rubbing his forehead as he joined Sirius in the living room. Remus从床上匆忙爬起来，穿衣服时太快了，两次绊倒在裤腿上，撞到梳妆台上。他揉着额头抱怨道，“哎哟，”然后走进了客厅。

“Silly sod,” Sirius said fondly, “Lucky Marlene’ll be there, eh?” “傻瓜，”Sirius温柔地说，“幸好Marlene会在那里，是吧？”

“I have a feeling she’ll be busy…” “我觉得她会很忙……”

Sirius walked into the fireplace, grabbing some floo powder. Just as he was about to throw it down, he gave Remus a funny look, cocking his head, “Moony, your shirt’s on inside out. Potter Manor.” And with a blaze of green flame, he was gone. Remus looked down at his shirt. The buttons were on the inside. Damn. Ah well, he was too sleepy, and too jittery to sort it out now. He took a handful of floo powder and walked into the fireplace next. Sirius走进壁炉，抓起一些飞路粉。正要扔下时，他给了Remus一个滑稽的表情，歪着头说：“Moony，你的衬衫穿反了。Potter庄园。”随着一阵绿色的火焰，他消失了。Remus低头看了看他的衬衫。扣子在里面。该死。唉，他现在太困了，太紧张，没办法整理好。他抓了一把飞路粉，走进了壁炉。

He stepped out into the Potters’ living room, which currently resembled a train station waiting room. Gully came scuttling through, arms piled high with blankets, and Mary, Peter, Sirius, and Arthur Weasley were standing about, talking. 他走出Potter家的客厅，现在看起来像火车站候车室。Gully匆匆走过，手臂上堆满了毯子，Mary, Peter, Sirius和Arthur Weasley站在那儿聊天。

“Remus!” Mary gave him a quick hug. “Your shirt’s inside out,” she said, smoothing a hand over his chest. “Remus！”Mary给了他一个快速的拥抱。“你的衬衫穿反了，”她说着，抚平了他胸前的衣服。

“Any news?” He asked. “有什么消息吗？”他问。

“James sent a patronus for Marlene about two hours ago - she was staying at mine to be closer to St Mungo’s, so I came too. They’ve been upstairs ever since, I asked if there was anything I could do, but you know what Marls is like when she’s got a job to do…” “James大约两小时前给Marlene发了一个守护神——她住在我家里，为了离圣芒戈近点，所以我也来了。从那时起他们就一直在楼上，我问有没有什么我能做的，但你知道Marlene有工作要做时是什么样子的……”

“James is up there too?” Remus glanced at the ceiling nervously. He’d never say so, but he had an absolute horror of childbirth. He wasn’t one hundred percent sure what it involved, other than a lot of screaming and probably blood too. “James也在上面？”Remus紧张地瞥了一眼天花板。他绝不会说，但他对分娩有极度的恐惧。他不完全确定它包括什么，除了很多尖叫和可能的血。

“D’you think they need anything?” Sirius said, wandering towards the stairs. “你觉得他们需要什么吗？”Sirius说，走向楼梯。

“Ms McKinnon will have it all under control,” Arthur said, cheerfully, “James won’t be doing anything more useful than holding Lily’s hand, I promise you. Sit down lads, I’m afraid we’re all in for a very long wait.” “McKinnon女士会控制一切，”Arthur愉快地说，“James不会做任何比握着Lily的手更有用的事情，我向你保证。坐下吧，伙计们，恐怕我们要等很久。”

They all did, quietly. There was a funny atmosphere - no one except Arthur had ever experienced this sort of worry before, and Remus was very glad he was there. Mary got up and drew the curtains back. It was the peak of summer, and the sun was already full in the sky, birds singing and the muggle milkman whistling as he made his rounds. 他们都安静地坐下了。气氛有点奇怪——除了Arthur，没有人经历过这种担忧，Remus非常高兴他在那里。Mary起身拉开窗帘。正值夏季，太阳已经高挂在天空中，鸟儿歌唱，麻瓜送奶工在他巡回时吹着口哨。

“Tea, anyone?” Remus said, feeling the need to do something useful. He eyed Peter, who was leaning on his elbow, head nodding, “Or coffee maybe?” “有人要喝茶吗？”Remus说，觉得需要做些有用的事。他看了一眼靠在肘部，点着头的Peter，“或者咖啡？”

“Good man, Moony,” Sirius nodded, “I’ll help.” “好人，Moony，”Sirius点头，“我来帮忙。”

 

In the kitchen, they found that Gully had already laid out the things for tea, and set some water to boil in the big copper kettle on the hob, so Remus and Sirius only needed to bother with the coffee. They did this quietly, though Remus caught Sirius’s eye once or twice and couldn't help but smile at the boyish excitement he saw there. 在厨房里，他们发现Gully已经把茶具摆好，并在大铜壶里烧水，所以Remus和Sirius只需要负责咖啡。他们静静地做着这些事，虽然Remus几次捕捉到Sirius的目光，不禁微笑起来，因为他看到了那里的少年兴奋。

Just as they were about to bring the trays through to the living room, a door upstairs slammed open, and footsteps could be heard on the landing. 正当他们准备把托盘拿到客厅时，楼上的一扇门猛地打开了，随即传来脚步声。

“Padfoot?!” James’s voice. “Padfoot？！”James的声音传来。

“Prongs?!” Sirius ran through to the hallway, leaning over the stair bannister and staring upwards. Remus hurried to join him, and Peter was not far behind. “Prongs？！”Sirius跑到走廊，靠在楼梯栏杆上向上看。Remus急忙跟上他，Peter也不远。

James peered down at them, red-faced, misty eyes and beaming. James红着脸，眼中带泪，笑容满面地俯视他们。

“It’s a boy!” “是个男孩！”

Harry. That was the name they’d decided on, according to Marlene, who came down to gratefully accept a cup of tea and sank slowly into the couch. She had dark rings under her eyes, but smiled at everybody anyway. Harry。这是他们决定的名字，据Marlene说，她下来感激地接过一杯茶，慢慢坐到沙发上。她眼圈发黑，但仍然对大家微笑。

“Lightning fast delivery,” she murmured, sipping the milky brew slowly, “Twenty minutes active labour!” “分娩速度极快，”她喃喃道，慢慢啜饮着牛奶茶，“活跃分娩只有二十分钟！”

“Maybe he’ll be a chaser, like James!” Peter said, eagerly. “也许他会像James一样成为追球手！”Peter急切地说。

“Is Lily ok?” Mary asked. “Lily还好吗？”Mary问道。

Marlene nodded, “Of course she is. Nothing stops Evans.” Marlene点点头，“她当然没事。没有什么能阻挡Evans。”

“I’ll be off, then,” Arthur said, standing up and fastening his threadbare cloak, “I’ve been away from Molly and the boys too long already - I’ll let Dumbledore know the good news, of course.” “那我就走了，”Arthur说，站起来系好他那破旧的斗篷，“我已经离开Molly和孩子们太久了——我当然会把这个好消息告诉Dumbledore。”

They all said goodbye. Once he’d gone, Sirius went to the stairs again to look up. 他们都说了再见。他一走，Sirius又走到楼梯口向上看。

“Sirius, love,” Marlene called sharply, “Give them a bit of time alone, eh? Family time.” “Sirius，亲爱的，”Marlene尖声叫道，“给他们一点独处时间，好吗？家庭时间。”

“Oh, ok.” He nodded, turning back to the room and leaning in the door frame. He stared into space for a while, and for once Remus couldn’t guess what he was thinking. Sirius shook his head slowly, and said, “Harry Potter,” very low. “哦，好。”他点点头，转回房间，靠在门框上。他凝视着空中一会儿，这一次Remus猜不出他在想什么。Sirius慢慢地摇了摇头，低声说：“Harry Potter。”

“It’s a nice name, I think.” Mary said, brightly. She glanced at Marlene and stifled a giggle, “Better than Neville, eh?” “我觉得这是个好名字。”Mary亮声说道。她瞥了一眼Marlene，忍住笑，“比Neville好，对吧？”

Marlene giggled too, guiltily, “Oh, don’t, I could barely keep a straight face when Frank told me.” Marlene也带着歉意地笑了起来，“哦，别这么说，当Frank告诉我时我几乎忍不住笑出来。”

Remus got up and went to stand with Sirius. He threaded their fingers together. Remus起身走到Sirius身边。他们十指紧扣。

“You’re a godfather,” he whispered. Sirius turned his head towards Remus, smiling, “你是教父了，”他低声说。Sirius转头对Remus微笑，

“Yeah,” he nodded, “... blimey, I really hope I don’t balls it up.” “是啊，”他点点头，“...天哪，我真希望我不会搞砸。”

 

Chapter 169: The War: Autumn & Winter 1980You done too much, much too young

You're married with a kid when you could be having fun with me

You done too much, much too young

Now you're married with a son when you should be having fun with me

Don't wanna be rich, don't wanna be famous

Ain't he cute? No he ain't.

He's just another burden on the welfare state.

 

Wednesday 3rd September 1980

Whooosh - splash.

Remus landed on his feet - just about - right in a muddy puddle in the middle of the high street. Remus勉强站稳脚跟，正好落在大街中央的一个泥坑里。

“Bugger.” He muttered, yanking his cloak up out of the way - his boots were beyond saving, socks already soaked through. He hadn’t realised the holes were that bad, it was definitely time for a new pair, he’d need to check his savings. “该死。”他低声咒骂着，把斗篷提起来——他的靴子已经无药可救了，袜子也全湿透了。他没意识到这些洞这么糟糕，看来确实是时候换一双新的了，他得检查一下自己的存款。

It looked like it might rain later, too. Bloody perfect. 看起来后来还可能下雨。真是糟透了。

Remus was in a very bad mood, and wet feet were the least of it. Still, he was in Hogsmeade for a reason, and he knew he just had to pull his (metaphorical) socks up and get on with it. 他心情很糟，湿脚只是其中最小的问题。不过，他来霍格莫德是有原因的，他知道他必须振作起来继续前进。

He wished he wasn’t alone, but even if someone had been available to come with him (James had the baby, Lily and Sirius were in Broadstairs on reconnaissance, Marlene, Peter and Mary were all working), he’d been told to come alone. As usual. 他希望自己不是一个人，但即使有人可以陪他来（James在照顾孩子，Lily和Sirius在布罗德斯泰尔斯进行侦察，Marlene、Peter和Mary都在工作），他还是被告知要独自前来。像往常一样。

He trudged towards the Three Broomsticks, thinking at least there would be a nice warm fire and maybe a nip of whisky waiting for him. He’d need it. Whenever he was summoned to meet someone alone, it was usually werewolf business, and that always required a stiff drink. 他跋涉向三把扫帚酒吧走去，想着至少那里会有温暖的火炉，也许还有一点威士忌等着他。他需要它。每当他被召见独自会见某人时，通常是狼人的事，总是需要一杯烈酒。

He hoped it was news of Greyback rather than Castor. 他希望是Greyback的消息，而不是Castor的。

It began to spit rain as he came within sight of the pub, and he jogged a bit to save the rest of his clothes from damp. 当他看到酒吧时，天开始下小雨了，他小跑了一会儿，以免衣服湿透。

It was a quiet afternoon in the little Scottish village - the students of Hogwarts would be in their lessons, the wizards who lived in town would be at their occupations. And very few people left the house these days, if they didn’t have to. 这是苏格兰小村庄一个安静的下午——霍格沃茨的学生们应该在上课，镇上居住的巫师们在工作。如果不是必须的话，最近很少有人会离开家。

The pub was nice and empty. Remus felt a stab of nostalgia as he entered, remembering how only two short years ago he and his friends had all sat in one of the booths, bright-eyed and naive, looking forward to their futures. Who could have known that saving the world would be such a grey, monotonous slog?

酒吧很好而且空蕩蕩的。當萊姆斯走進去時，他感到一股懷舊之情，想起就在兩年前，他和他的朋友們還坐在其中一個攤位上，眼睛明亮而天真，期待著他們的未來。誰能想到拯救世界會是一場如此灰色、單調的艱苦跋涉？

“Remus Lupin, as I live and breathe!” Rosmerta chirped from the bar, one hand on her round hip, bosom overflowing as usual. She glanced hopefully over his shoulder, “Black not joining you?” “Remus Lupin，真的是你！”Rosmerta从吧台后面欢快地说，一只手放在她圆润的臀部上，胸部一如既往地丰满。她满怀希望地瞥了一眼他的肩膀，“Black没和你一起来吗？”

Remus shook his head, and went to take a seat near the hearth, so he could at least try to dry out his shoes. Remus摇了摇头，走到炉边找了个座位，这样至少可以试着把鞋子烤干。

“Not today, Rosmerta,” he said, trying to affect good cheer, “Could I get a glass of--” “今天没有，Rosmerta，”他努力表现出愉快的心情说道，“我可以来一杯--”

“Two glasses -- of butterbeer, please,” a familiar voice intoned. Remus whipped around, finding himself face to face with Dumbledore. “两杯——黄油啤酒，谢谢，”一个熟悉的声音响起。Remus猛地转身，发现自己正面对着Dumbledore。

“Oh, h-hello, professor.” Remus said, embarrassed. “哦，你好，教授。”Remus尴尬地说。

“Remus,” Dumbledore nodded politely. He never called him ‘Mr Lupin’, not since Remus had asked him not to, years ago. “Please, be seated,” he gestured grandly, like a vicar about to give a sermon. “Remus，”Dumbledore礼貌地点点头。自从多年前Remus请求他不要这样叫他后，他就再也没叫过他‘Lupin先生’。“请坐，”他大方地示意，就像即将布道的牧师一样。

Remus sat. Dumbledore always made him feel eleven years old. Remus坐下。Dumbledore总是让他感觉自己像十一岁的小孩。

“How have you been?” His old headmaster asked, kindly, gracefully taking the armchair opposite. He set down a heavy-looking leather briefcase on the rug between them. Remus eyed it warily, but answered, “你最近怎么样？”他以前的校长亲切地问道，优雅地坐在对面的扶手椅上。他把一个看起来很重的皮质公文包放在他们之间的地毯上。Remus警惕地盯着它，但还是回答道，

“Well, thanks. You know.” “还好，谢谢。你知道的。”

“These are difficult times.” Dumbledore said, and Remus didn’t respond to that, because he wasn’t sure he was supposed to. “这些是艰难的时刻。”Dumbledore说，Remus没有回应，因为他不确定自己该怎么说。

Rosmerta bustled over with the butterbeers, setting them down on the little round side table. When she’d left, Remus lifted his tankard and drank, just for a distraction. He could pretend it was alcohol, maybe that would help steady him. He desperately wanted a cigarette, but for some reason that felt wrong in front of Dumbledore. So he just sipped the butterbeer, feeling the cloying syrupy mixture rest on his tongue, slide down his throat. Rosmerta忙碌地把黄油啤酒端过来，放在小圆边桌上。她离开后，Remus举起酒杯喝了一口，只是为了分散注意力。他可以假装那是酒，也许那样会让他平静一些。他非常想抽支烟，但出于某种原因，在Dumbledore面前这样做感觉不对。所以他只是啜饮着黄油啤酒，感觉那粘稠的糖浆混合物在舌头上停留，滑下喉咙。

“You must be wondering why I asked you here,” Dumbledore said, watching him. “你一定在想为什么我叫你来这里，”Dumbledore看着他说。

“Is it… is it… Greyback?” Remus whispered. Dumbledore smiled, “是...是...Greyback吗？”Remus低声问道。Dumbledore笑了，

“You needn’t worry about eavesdroppers, Remus, we are quite safe to speak freely here. No, alas, there have been no further reports of Greyback or the young lady he is travelling with.” “你不必担心窃听者，Remus，我们在这里可以自由交谈。不，唉，没有关于Greyback或他同行的那位年轻女士的进一步报告。”

“Oh.” Remus blinked. Well then what? “哦。”Remus眨了眨眼。那么是什么呢？

“This is rather a more pressing matter - or at least, it will be, if I am correct.” “这件事更为紧迫——至少，如果我没错的话，将会是这样。”

“Right…” Remus shifted uncomfortably. He was not usually the go-to agent when it came to ‘pressing matters’. Dumbledore seemed to read his mind. “对...”Remus不舒服地动了动。涉及‘紧迫事项’时，他通常不是首选的代理人。Dumbledore似乎看穿了他的心思。

“I am in need of someone with a keen eye for detail, and a good deal of patience.” He leaned forward and opened the briefcase a crack. Remus peered inside. “我需要一个眼光敏锐，耐心十足的人。”他向前倾身，打开公文包的缝隙。Remus往里面窥视。

“Books!” He said, surprised. There must be a hundred of them inside - some sort of extension charm perhaps. “书！”他惊讶地说。里面一定有一百本书——也许是某种扩展咒语。

“Indeed,” Dumbledore smiled, closing the briefcase again. “确实如此，”Dumbledore笑着说，再次合上公文包。

“So… you need some research done?” “所以...你需要一些研究吗？”

“I do indeed. Tell me, Remus, how much do you know about prophecy?” “确实如此。告诉我，Remus，你对预言了解多少？”

“Er… well I never took Divination,” he scratched his head. He was intrigued now, “But obviously it comes up a bit in Runes… I’ve read a bit.” “呃...我从没学过占卜，”他挠了挠头。现在他很感兴趣，“但显然在符文学中有提到一些...我读过一点。”

“You will need to read a lot more,” Dumbledore said, gravely, “And I must impress upon you both the importance of this task, and the sensitivity. Anything you learn must be kept entirely confidential, do you understand?” “你需要阅读更多，”Dumbledore严肃地说，“我必须强调这项任务的重要性和敏感性。你所学到的任何信息都必须完全保密，你明白吗？”

“I… of course,” Remus nodded, slightly alarmed. “But what do you want me to look for?” “我...当然，”Remus点点头，有些惊慌。“但你要我找什么？”

“For now, we are simply seeking a fuller understanding of the nature of prophecy. Many of these books contain secret transcripts - some of which may need translating - of known prophetic and oracular statements. I should like to know if there are any which appear to relate to Voldemort, or to this particular moment in history.” “目前，我们只是寻求对预言本质的更全面理解。这些书中有许多包含已知的预言和神谕陈述的秘密记录——其中一些可能需要翻译。我想知道是否有任何与Voldemort或这个历史时刻有关的内容。”

“So… you think someone might have already made a prophecy? About how the war ends?” “所以...你认为有人可能已经做出了预言？关于战争的结局？”

“They may have.” The professor replied, shortly. “But we cannot afford to make any rash decisions. While there is still time, I would like to know as much as we can.” “可能有。”教授简短地回答。“但我们不能做出任何轻率的决定。在还有时间的时候，我想知道尽可能多的信息。”

Dumbledore switched between ‘I’ and ‘we’ regularly, when he spoke about the war, Remus noticed. Still, he thought he pretty much understood, Dumbledore在谈论战争时，经常在‘我’和‘我们’之间切换，Remus注意到了。不过，他觉得自己基本上明白了，

“Ok.” He said, “How shall I let you know, if I find anything?” “好。”他说，“如果我发现什么，怎么告诉你？”

“I shall come to you.” Dumbledore replied, cryptically. “Once again, Remus, I cannot overstate the importance of this task. You must tell nobody, understood?” “我会来找你。”Dumbledore神秘地回答。“再说一次，Remus，这项任务的重要性无法夸大。你不能告诉任何人，明白了吗？”

“Understood.” “明白。”

That meant not telling Sirius, or James, or any one of his friends. Sometimes Remus wondered if secrets were simply his lot in life. He thought for a moment, “Professor?” 这意味着不能告诉Sirius，James，或他的任何一个朋友。有时Remus会想，秘密是否就是他的人生宿命。他想了一会儿，“教授？”

“Yes?” “是的？”

“Should I keep an eye out for prophecies that have been prevented - or--” he re-phrased, because he knew that was impossible, “Circumvented? I mean, I don’t know loads about it, but there are always loopholes, aren’t there?” “我是否应该留意那些被阻止的预言——或者——”他重新措辞，因为他知道这是不可能的，“被规避的预言？我的意思是，我对它了解不多，但总会有漏洞，不是吗？”

Dumbledore’s eyes glittered, and a small smile played on his lips. Dumbledore的眼睛闪闪发光，嘴角露出一丝微笑。

“Very good, Remus.” “很好，Remus。”

* * *

 

Friday 24th October 1980

And that was how Remus spent much of his autumn. He studied well into October. It wasn’t bad at all - actually, he enjoyed it. He’d always liked research, and though he missed the peaceful airy chambers of Hogwarts’ library, he was pretty content squirrelled away in the little London flat, with endless pots of tea and a quietly smoking ashtray on hand.

 于是，Remus度过了大部分的秋天。他一直研究到十月。其实，这并不糟糕——实际上，他很享受。他一直喜欢研究，尽管他怀念霍格沃茨图书馆那宁静而开阔的房间，但他对蜷缩在伦敦的小公寓里，手边有无尽的茶壶和一个悄悄冒烟的烟灰缸感到相当满意。

If Sirius came in, he would cast obfuscate over his books and notes, and Sirius seemed happy with this arrangement. He understood what needed to be done in the service of the war. 如果Sirius进来了，他会在书本和笔记上施加模糊咒，而Sirius似乎对此安排感到满意。他明白为了战争需要做些什么。

Anyway, they were barely at the flat - Remus only used it to work in. They spent much more of their time at the Potters’ mansion, where James’s old bedroom had been turned into a nursery, but Sirius’s old bedroom was the same as ever, only with half of Remus’s things in it too. Together, the marauders and Lily had grown into a funny little family, with baby Harry at the centre. 无论如何，他们几乎不在公寓里——Remus只在那里工作。他们大部分时间都待在Potters的庄园里，James的旧卧室已经变成了婴儿室，而Sirius的旧卧室依然如故，只是里面多了一半Remus的东西。大家一起，Marauders和Lily变成了一个有趣的小家庭，Harry是中心。

It took Remus a month or so to really get over his fear of infants - and it still made him a bit anxious to actually hold Harry - but Sirius had been a huge help. Remus花了大约一个月的时间才真正克服对婴儿的恐惧——实际上抱着Harry仍然让他有点紧张——但Sirius帮了大忙。

Sirius was utterly besotted with his godson. The child was barely ever out of his arms when they were visiting (a relief for Lily and James, who were only just bearing up under the pressure of parenthood combined with their duties for the Order). Sirius对他的教子完全迷恋。在他们探访时，孩子几乎从未离开他的怀抱（这对Lily和James来说是种解脱，他们在承受父母责任和为凤凰社服务的压力下勉强撑着）。

“Say Padfoot, Harry, go on! Pah-d-foo-t…” Sirius cooed one evening, as he bounced the tiny little green-eyed creature on his lap. “说Padfoot，Harry，快说！Pah-d-foo-t…”一天晚上，Sirius低声哄着，把这个绿眼睛的小家伙抱在膝上轻轻晃动。

“They don’t talk until they’re at least one,” Remus smirked, sitting gingerly on the arm of the couch, “I looked it up.” “他们至少一岁才会说话，”Remus笑着说，小心翼翼地坐在沙发扶手上，“我查过了。”

“Normal kids don’t,” Sirius tossed his hair back, gently holding Harry’s chubby little wrists, “But Harry Potter is no ordinary baby, he’s clearly very advanced for his age. Come on, Harry, say Pad-foot …”” “普通孩子不会，”Sirius甩了甩头发，轻轻握住Harry胖乎乎的小手腕，“但Harry Potter不是普通的婴儿，他显然比同龄的孩子要聪明。来吧，Harry，说Pad-foot…”

“Don’t get your hopes up,” Lily laughed, “James’s mum told me he didn’t speak until eighteen months.” “别抱太大希望，”Lily笑着说，“James的妈妈告诉我，他十八个月才开始说话。”

“Oi,” James yelled from his father’s study, “I was an extremely thoughtful child, that’s all.” “喂，”James从他父亲的书房里喊道，“我只是个非常深思熟虑的孩子，仅此而已。”

“Oh yeah, what changed?” Sirius yelled back, grinning. “哦，是吗，后来怎么变了？”Sirius大声回道，咧嘴笑着。

“You’re hogging him, Padfoot!” Peter whined, reaching his arms out, “Come on, I haven’t had a cuddle yet,” “你霸着他不放，Padfoot！”Peter抱怨道，伸出双臂，“来吧，我还没抱过呢。”

“Not my fault he likes me best,” Sirius replied, poking his tongue out at Peter, and then at Harry, puffing out his cheeks and bulging his eyes so that the baby giggled and burbled contentedly. “他最喜欢我不是我的错，”Sirius回道，向Peter吐了吐舌头，然后对着Harry鼓起脸颊，睁大眼睛，逗得小宝宝咯咯笑起来，咕哝着。

“I’ll give you a cuddle, Pete,” Remus teased. “我来抱抱你，Pete，”Remus戏谑道。

“Lily, tell him!” Peter tutted, folding his arms crossly. “Lily，告诉他！”Peter咂嘴说道，愤怒地抱着双臂。

“Honestly! I’ve got one son and that’s plenty,” Lily laughed, getting up, “No fighting while mummy and daddy are out, ok boys?” She gave them all a very stern look. “说真的！我有一个儿子已经够了，”Lily笑着站起来，“爸妈不在的时候不要打架，好吗，孩子们？”她严厉地看了他们一眼。

“You’ve been spending too much time with Molly.” Sirius said. “你花了太多时间和Molly在一起。”Sirius说。

“Right, I’m ready,” James came back through to the living room in his travelling cloak. Lily already had hers on. She gave him a stoic smile, “好了，我准备好了，”James穿着旅行斗篷回到客厅。Lily已经穿上了她的斗篷。她对他露出一个坚忍的微笑，

“Let’s go then.” “那我们走吧。”

A cold silence entered the room, and Remus looked at the floor, because he couldn’t bring himself to look at any of his friends, and especially not the baby. 一阵冷寂笼罩了房间，Remus看着地板，因为他无法直视任何一个朋友，尤其是那个宝宝。

Lily broke it, “Oh, stop being so melodramatic, you lot. It’s a standard mission, we’ve done a hundred of these.” She went over to Sirius and bent to kiss Harry’s head - already sprouting a thatch of fine black hair. “拜托，别这么夸张，你们这些人。这是个普通任务，我们做了上百次了。”她走向Sirius，弯下腰亲了亲Harry的头——那上面已经长出了一丛细细的黑发。“Bye bye Harry, mummy and daddy love you so much. We’ll see you soon.” “再见Harry，妈妈和爸爸非常爱你。我们很快会见面的。”

James didn’t say goodbye - he had a wooden, muted expression that Remus had been seeing more and more of since his parents’ funeral. James没有说再见——他的表情木然、沉默，这是自从他父母的葬礼以来，Remus越来越常见到的。

“Are you sure you can’t tell us where--” Pete started. “你确定不能告诉我们你们要去哪里——”Pete开口道。

“Sorry Wormy,” James held his hands up, “Moody’s orders. You know how it is.” “对不起，Wormy，”James举起双手，“Moody的命令。你知道怎么回事。”

Peter nodded, shoulders slumping. Remus knew how he felt - it was difficult enough knowing that your friends were walking into danger. It was even harder not knowing exactly what they would be facing - as though they were disappearing out of reach. Peter点点头，肩膀垂下。Remus知道他的感受——知道朋友们正走向危险已经很难了。更难的是不知道他们将面对的具体情况——就像他们在消失得无影无踪。

“Come on,” Lily hurried her husband, pulling him from the room, “Back before morning, we hope!” She called from the hallway. And then the door slammed, and Harry burst into tears. “走吧，”Lily催促她的丈夫，把他拉出房间，“我们希望天亮前回来！”她从走廊里喊道。然后门砰地一声关上了，Harry放声大哭。

“Oh bugger,” Sirius said, over the screams, “Er… have him now if you like, Pete?” “哦，糟了，”Sirius在哭声中说道，“呃…你现在要抱他吗，Pete？”

It took hours to finally calm Harry down. He bawled as if his heart was broken, and wouldn’t settle until it was nearly midnight. 他们花了几个小时才终于安抚好Harry。他哭得像心碎了一样，直到将近午夜才安静下来。

“Definitely couldn’t do this full time,” Sirius said, head in his hands as he slumped on the floor of the nursery. “绝对不能全职做这个，”Sirius说，双手抱头，瘫坐在婴儿房的地板上。

“Jesus, I swear the kid’s possessed.” Remus whispered, rubbing his temples. He had a splitting headache. “天啊，我发誓这孩子被附身了。”Remus低声说，揉着太阳穴。他头痛欲裂。

“Shit, you should go to bed,” Sirius said, looking up at him. His usually immaculate silky black hair was in knots, and there was definitely still some milky baby sick stuck in there. Without a trace of irony, he frowned at Remus, “You must be exhausted,” “该死，你应该去睡觉了，”Sirius抬头看着他说。他那通常无瑕的丝滑黑发打结了，里面还沾着一些奶味的婴儿呕吐物。毫无讽刺之意地，他皱着眉对Remus说，“你一定很累。”

“Oh, I’m fine,” Remus shrugged - he tried not to wince as he felt every tendon in his back tug. Yesterday had been a full moon. “Actually I wasn’t going to stay… you know, I’ve got that work to do.” “哦，我没事，”Remus耸了耸肩——他尽量不露出痛苦的表情，因为他感觉到背部的每根肌腱都在拉扯。昨天是满月。“其实我本来不打算留下的…你知道，我有工作要做。”

“Oh, that.” Sirius nodded. His mouth was a straight line. He climbed to his feet, glancing at the red and gold cot one last time. Harry was sleeping, thank god. They both padded quietly out of the room, leaving it open just a crack. “哦，那个。”Sirius点点头。他的嘴唇紧闭成一条线。他站起来，最后看了一眼红金色的婴儿床。谢天谢地，Harry睡着了。他们俩静静地走出房间，只留下一个小缝隙。

On the landing, where the lights were still on, Sirius looked even worse - he had rings under his eyes, which were bloodshot. Remus touched his arm gently, “You ought to go to bed.” 在楼梯平台上，灯还亮着，Sirius看起来更糟糕了——他的眼睛下方有黑眼圈，眼睛布满血丝。Remus轻轻碰了碰他的手臂，“你应该去睡觉了。”

Sirius grabbed his arm, suddenly, eyes widening, “Moony, don’t go.” Sirius突然抓住他的手臂，眼睛睁大，“Moony，别走。”

“Eh? I’m only going to the flat…” “嗯？我只是要去公寓…”

“Please?” Sirius clutched at him, half mad with tiredness, “Just take the night off, just stay here with me?” “拜托？”Sirius抓住他，半疯地疲惫不堪，“就休息一晚，留下来陪我好吗？”

“Pete’s here…” Remus turned his head slightly. He could hear Peter snoring on the couch downstairs. Not much comfort, he supposed, “Peter在这里...”Remus微微转头。他能听到楼下沙发上Peter的鼾声。他想，这并不能带来多大安慰，

“But I want you,” Sirius said, desperately. “但我想要你，”Sirius绝望地说。

That struck Remus in an unusual way. To anyone else, it might have sounded whinging; childish. After all, Sirius was a grown man, and Remus had important work to do. But somehow it dislodged a feeling Remus hadn’t had for Sirius in a long time - a desire to protect him. To hold him close and tell him everything was going to be ok, and to be strong and reliable for the man he loved. 这让Remus有种不同寻常的感觉。对其他人来说，这可能听起来像是在抱怨；幼稚。毕竟，Sirius是个成年人，而Remus有重要的工作要做。但不知为何，这激发了Remus很久没有对Sirius产生的感觉——一种想要保护他的愿望。想要紧紧抱住他，告诉他一切都会好的，并且要为他所爱的男人坚强可靠。

Amazed by this revelation, Remus did exactly that, hugging Sirius tightly and kissing his filthy hair, “Ok then,” he whispered, “I’ll stay.” 被这个启示惊讶到的Remus正是这么做的，紧紧抱住Sirius，亲吻他肮脏的头发，“好吧，”他低声说，“我会留下。”

 

After all, he thought, as Sirius trailed off to have a shower, relief evident in his posture; wouldn’t Sirius do the same for him? 毕竟，他想，当Sirius拖着疲惫的身体去洗澡时，显而易见地松了一口气；Sirius难道不会为他做同样的事吗？

* * *

Friday 21st November 1980

That time, Lily and James came back, as always; tired, a little harder, a little less bright, but otherwise perfectly ok. Remus always felt enormous relief when any of his friends returned safely, and each time swore to himself he would not take it for granted. But what does that mean, when you are young? 那次，Lily和James像往常一样回来了；疲惫，稍微更坚强一点，少了些光彩，但其他方面一切正常。每当他的朋友们安全归来时，Remus总是感到巨大的宽慰，并且每次都发誓自己不会认为这是理所当然的。但当你年轻时，这是什么意思呢？

There had been deaths - deaths in the Order, deaths of people he knew - but no one really close. No one he truly loved. The Prewetts he had been fond of. Benjy Fenwick he had chatted to once or twice. But they weren’t close, and their losses didn’t affect him severely. Compared to others, Remus had been extremely lucky. 有过死亡——在凤凰社里死去的人，他认识的人——但没有人真正与他亲近。没有他真正爱的人。Prewetts是他喜欢的。Benjy Fenwick他聊过一两次。但他们并不亲近，他们的离去对他没有太大的影响。相比之下，Remus非常幸运。

Of course, you never feel lucky, at the time. Good fortune is too often something that can only be recognised with hindsight. 当然，你在当时从来不会觉得幸运。好运常常是只有在事后才能意识到的。

Sirius turned twenty one in November. They didn’t have a party, but Hagrid baked a rather wonky - though very large and very delicious - cake, which they all ate at the Order safe house after the regular meeting. Someone took a few photos, but Remus forgot to try and track them down. Sirius在十一月满二十一岁。他们没有举行派对，但Hagrid烤了一个相当歪斜——但非常大也非常美味——的蛋糕，他们在凤凰社的安全屋例会后一起吃了。有人拍了几张照片，但Remus忘了去找。

“It’s a big deal for muggles, twenty-one.” He commented as they climbed into bed that evening. “That’s when they come of age.” “对麻瓜来说，二十一岁很重要。”那天晚上上床时他评论道。“那是他们成年的时候。”

“Why? Muggles can’t do magic.” Sirius frowned, yawning. “为什么？麻瓜不能做魔法。”Sirius皱眉打哈欠。

“No, I know, it’s just an old fashioned thing,” Remus tried to explain. “You get the key to your front door or something like that.” “不，我知道，这只是个老派的事情，”Remus试图解释。“你会得到你前门的钥匙之类的东西。”

“Daft muggles.” Sirius grumbled, his eyes already closing. “I feel old.” “蠢麻瓜。”Sirius嘟囔着，眼睛已经快闭上了。“我感觉老了。”

“Well, you’re not,” Remus settled down beside him, “I’m the one going grey. Twenty-one is young. Really really young.” “嗯，你还不老，”Remus在他身边安顿下来，“是我在变白。二十一岁还年轻。真的很年轻。”

Sirius sighed wearily. “Doesn’t feel it.” Sirius疲惫地叹了口气。“感觉不像。”

Remus knew exactly what he meant, but he didn’t like it. They were all of them caught in a confusing place between adolescence and adulthood - baby Harry had only exacerbated that. There was a sense of time running out; of needing to accomplish as much as possible as fast as possible. Peter’s crawling at his ministry job, always angling for a better position; James and Lily playing house and soldiers at the same time - Remus and his stupid drinking. Remus完全明白他的意思，但他不喜欢这种感觉。他们都处在青春期和成年期之间的一个混乱地带——小宝宝Harry只是加剧了这一点。有一种时间正在流逝的感觉；需要尽快完成尽可能多的事情。Peter在他的魔法部工作中艰难前行，总是在争取更好的职位；James和Lily同时扮演家庭和士兵角色——Remus和他愚蠢的酗酒。

At least he had the research to do. That seemed to be going well - every now and then Dumbledore dropped by to see how he was getting on. And Remus would offload as much information as he could - with detail, because he knew Dumbledore liked detail. The old man would nod sagely, stroke his beard and sit quietly, ruminating. If he came to any conclusions, he didn’t tell Remus. 至少他还有研究要做。这似乎进展顺利——Dumbledore时不时会过来看他进行得如何。Remus会尽可能详细地提供信息——因为他知道Dumbledore喜欢细节。老人会聪明地点点头，抚摸胡须，静静地坐着，沉思。如果他得出任何结论，他不会告诉Remus。

It felt good, though. Remus even felt himself warming to Dumbledore for the first time. He liked being useful. And then, just before the November full moon, Remus got his chance to be really useful. 但这感觉很好。Remus甚至第一次感到自己开始喜欢Dumbledore了。他喜欢有用的感觉。然后，就在十一月满月之前，Remus有了一个真正有用的机会。

As usual, there was a message from Moody. He was to apparate to some very specific coordinates on Friday 21st November, and meet Ferox there. 一如既往，Moody发来信息。他将在十一月二十一日星期五幻影移形到一些非常具体的坐标，并在那里与Ferox会合。

“Tell him no,” Sirius said, annoyed, “Bloody Moody, he knows that’s the night before the full moon! You shouldn’t be out running his errands when you’re not well.” “告诉他不行，”Sirius恼怒地说，“该死的Moody，他知道那是满月前的夜晚！你在身体不好的时候不应该出去跑腿。”

“Jesus, you make me sound like an invalid,” Remus rolled his eyes. “I’m sure there’s a good reason for it. I’ll be fine, don’t worry.” “天啊，你让我听起来像个病人，”Remus翻了个白眼。“我确信有充分的理由。我会没事的，别担心。”

“Send a patronus, if anything happens?” Sirius asked, solemnly. “I don’t care about protocol, just say you’ll let me know?” “如果有什么事情发生，发一个守护神好吗？”Sirius严肃地问。“我不在乎规矩，只要你告诉我？”

“It will be fine.” Remus repeated. “会没事的。”Remus重复道。

He really did feel fine about it all. When the moon was waxing he often felt stronger than usual, and usually didn’t get bouts of nausea until a few hours before sunset. 他真的觉得一切都很好。当月亮在增盈时，他常常感觉比平时更强壮，通常在日落前几个小时才会感到恶心。

It was good to get out of London; away from traffic and noise and crowds. It was good to get away from the Potters’ - from nappies and baby talk and crying and creamed spinach. At the agreed time, Remus apparated following the instructions he’d been given, and found himself on a windy clifftop, somewhere very cold and bleak. 离开伦敦是件好事；远离交通、噪音和人群。离开Potters家也是件好事——远离尿布、婴儿话、哭泣和奶油菠菜。在约定的时间，Remus按照指示幻影移形，发现自己在一个寒冷荒凉的风吹悬崖上。

The sea crashed and raged miles below, and the long grass whipped around his ankles. Remus breathed in, deeply, inhaling the salt, the soil, the sharp cold scent of the clouds. The wolf inside licked its lips, ears pricking to attention. Yes. Greyback had been here. 海浪在几英里下方咆哮，长草在他的脚踝周围抽打。Remus深深吸了一口气，吸入盐味、土味和云朵的冷峻气息。内心的狼舔了舔嘴唇，竖起了耳朵。没错。Greyback曾在这里。

“Hello!” Ferox was a way off in the distance, a stick figure man waving at him. Remus raised a palm in greeting, bent forward into the wind and trudged to meet him. “你好！”Ferox在远处，一个像火柴人的人向他挥手。Remus举起手打招呼，迎着风弯下腰，步履艰难地走向他。

“Hi,” he said, breathless as he approached, cold hands deep in his pockets, nose frozen. “Where are we?” “嗨，”他接近时气喘吁吁，冷得手插在口袋里，鼻子冻僵了。“我们在哪？”

“Galloway,” Ferox said, cheerfully. He had a thick leather cloak on, with a hood, but his face was still ruddy from the harsh weather, and white fog blew from his lips as he spoke. “Pretty, eh?” “加洛韦，”Ferox高兴地说。他穿着厚厚的皮斗篷，带着兜帽，但他的脸仍因恶劣天气而红润，说话时白雾从嘴唇间喷出。“漂亮吧？”

Remus wasn’t sure if he was being sarcastic or not, so he just gave a neutral smile. Privately he thought that yes, the landscape was beautiful, if forbidding. Remus不确定他是不是在讽刺，所以只是给了一个中性的微笑。私下里他认为是的，景色很美，如果不那么令人望而生畏的话。

“Greyback’s been here.” He said, wanting to get down to it. “Greyback曾在这里。”他说，想直奔主题。

“You know for sure?” “你确定吗？”

“One hundred percent.” Remus nodded. Ferox nodded too, “百分之百。”Remus点头。Ferox也点头，

“Excellent, we were right, then. There was a report to the muggle police about a couple of tramps, man and a woman, looking shifty. Reckon they’ve been here, then?” “太好了，我们是对的。麻瓜警察有报告说有一对流浪汉，男的和女的，看起来鬼鬼祟祟。你觉得他们来过这里吗？”

Remus considered, breathing in again, “Yeah, but the scent’s old… maybe a day or so.” Remus考虑了一下，再次吸气，“是的，但气味很旧了…也许有一天左右。”

“Right. Shall we take a walk, then? See if it gets a bit stronger?” “好的。那么我们走走看看？看看气味会不会更强？”

“Ok…” Remus wasn’t sure how he felt, being the Order’s bloodhound. But he wanted to find Greyback as much as anyone, so he did as he was told. “好吧…”Remus不确定自己感觉如何，成为了凤凰社的猎犬。但他像任何人一样想找到Greyback，所以他照做了。

They strolled up and down the clifftop for a while, until Remus could be sure which way the trail led. As they headed downhill, away from the sea and down towards a small country road, he grew confident that Livia and Greyback had been there very recently, and began to walk faster. Ferox had no trouble keeping up, of course; he was as fit and healthy as he’d ever been. 他们在悬崖顶上来回走了一会儿，直到Remus能确定踪迹的方向。当他们下坡，远离大海，向一条小乡村道路走去时，他越来越确信Livia和Greyback最近来过这里，并开始加快步伐。当然，Ferox跟上没有任何问题；他一如既往地健康。

“What will we do, if we find him?” Remus asked as they walked. He was careful not to bring Livia into it, because - ok, while she was definitely a killer, he couldn’t help feeling a bit more sympathetic towards her. After all, she was his sister, in a warped kind of way. “如果我们找到他怎么办？”Remus边走边问。他小心不提Livia，因为——好吧，尽管她肯定是个杀手，他还是忍不住对她有些同情。毕竟，她是他的妹妹，以一种扭曲的方式。

“Moody reckons they’re hunkered down somewhere for the full moon,” Ferox replied, “Based on my research, werewolves are weakest right after the moon, so we’ll wait until then.” “Moody认为他们在某个地方躲起来等待满月，”Ferox回答道，“根据我的研究，狼人在满月之后最虚弱，所以我们会等到那时。”

“Your research?” Remus gave him a funny look. “你的研究？”Remus给了他一个奇怪的表情。

“Few books I’ve picked up - there’s not a lot to go on, beyond the NEWT level stuff.” “我挑了几本书——除了NEWT级别的东西之外，没有太多可以参考的。”

“Have you spoken to Madam Pomfrey? She looked after me for seven years, she knows loads,” Remus said, trying not to sound too impatient. “Or Marlene McKinnon? She’s been constructing her own case studies, to see if any advances can be made in lycanthropy treatment. Or, y’know. You could ask me. I might know a bit.” “你和Pomfrey夫人谈过吗？她照顾了我七年，她知道很多，”Remus说，尽量不显得太不耐烦。“或者Marlene McKinnon？她一直在做自己的病例研究，看看能否在狼疮治疗方面取得进展。或者，你知道，你可以问我。我可能知道一些。”

Ferox laughed good naturedly, “All right lad, all right, I see what you’re saying. It’s just that there isn’t always time to follow umpteen leads on a prick like Greyback. Got to move fast.” Ferox好脾气地笑了笑，“好吧，小伙子，好吧，我明白你的意思。只是没有总是有时间跟随像Greyback这样的人渣的无数线索。得快速行动。”

Remus said nothing, because it would only have come out wrong. He really hated criticising Ferox, it felt so awkward and embarrassing. He’d looked up to him as an ideal vision of manhood, once, and he didn’t like tampering with that illusion too much. But honestly. The way he talked, you’d think Greyback was just some petty criminal, not a murderous creature and charismatic cult leader. Remus什么也没说，因为说出来只会弄错。他真的讨厌批评Ferox，感觉太尴尬和难堪了。他曾经把他视为男子气概的理想形象，不喜欢过多地破坏这个幻象。但说实话。他说话的方式，让人觉得Greyback只是个小罪犯，不是一个杀人犯和有魅力的邪教领袖。

The scent had grown very strong, now, and as they crested the next hill, Remus could make out a large grey-black structure in the distance. The ruins of an old castle - Scotland was littered with them of course. This one was a tower house, and looked like a big square prison squatting ominously over the remains of a boggy moat. 现在气味变得非常强烈，当他们登上下一个山顶时，Remus可以看到远处有一个大灰黑色的建筑物。一座古老城堡的废墟——当然，苏格兰到处都是这样的废墟。这是一座塔楼，看起来像一座大方形监狱，阴森地蹲在泥泞护城河的遗迹上。

“There.” Remus said, stopping short. “That’s where he’ll be.” “那里。”Remus说，猛然停下。“他会在那里。”

 

Ferox clapped him on the shoulder. “Good work, lad.” Ferox拍了拍他的肩膀。“干得好，小伙子。”

* * *

Saturday 22nd November

 

 

Ferox didn’t want Remus present for the confrontation with Greyback. Remus did not give a toss. He knew where to go, and when, and nothing would change his mind. Ferox不想让Remus出现在与Greyback的对峙中。Remus根本不在乎。他知道去哪儿，什么时候去，什么都不会改变他的主意。

“I’m coming too, then.” Sirius said, firmly, after he’d wheedled enough information out of Remus. “那我也去。”Sirius坚定地说，在他从Remus那里挖掘到足够的信息之后。

“No you’re bloody not.” Remus said. “你去不了。”Remus说。

“Am too. Sorry Moony, but there is absolutely no way I’m losing you to that monster a second time.” “我去。对不起，Moony，但绝对不可能让我第二次把你交给那个怪物。”

“You didn’t lose me last time, you big drama queen, it was a mission,” Remus countered, “Anyway, I can’t put you in that sort of danger.” “上次你没丢掉我，你这大戏精，那是一场任务，”Remus反驳道，“反正，我不能让你陷入那种危险。”

“I’m in danger every day,” Sirius shrugged, “If it’s right after the full moon, you’ll need my help apparating.” “我每天都在危险中，”Sirius耸耸肩说，“如果是在满月之后，你会需要我的帮助来瞬移。”

“I’ve done that before,” Remus dismissed, “It’s hard, but I’ll manage. Anyway, this isn’t a normal mission, you wouldn’t just be backup, you’d be leverage against me. He knows who you are. He knows what you mean to me.” “我以前做过，”Remus不以为然地说，“这很难，但我会处理的。反正，这不是一个普通的任务，你不仅仅是后备，你还会成为对付我的筹码。他知道你是谁。他知道你对我意味着什么。”

“He made you tell him?!”

“Sort of. I told you they can read minds.” “他让你告诉他？！”

“有点。我告诉过你，他们能读心。”

“That bastard. I’m definitely coming with you.” “那个混蛋。我肯定会跟你一起去。”

Remus had forgotten how strongly Sirius felt about legilimency. Walpurga had used it as a punishment, and he would forever associate mindreading with black magic. Remus hadn’t raised the fact that this appeared to be a werewolf trait, and that, when pushed, he could do it too. Probably not a good idea to mention that just yet, he decided. Remus已经忘记了Sirius对Legilimency的强烈感情。Walpurga用它作为惩罚，他将永远把读心术与黑魔法联系在一起。Remus没有提到这似乎是狼人特质，且在被逼迫时，他也能做到。决定暂时不提这件事可能更好。

So Sirius got his way, of course, and Remus just hoped he would be able to protect him. 所以Sirius当然得到了他的方式，Remus只是希望他能保护好自己。

They went to the Lake District for the full moon; a place the marauders had enjoyed themselves before, a place with happy memories. James and Peter didn’t go. James hadn’t joined them for a full moon since Harry was born, and Remus understood that he didn’t want to be away from his family too often. Peter said something vague about working late, and honestly Remus was too busy worrying about the upcoming battle with Greyback to question it. 他们去了湖区度过满月；这是流氓们曾经喜欢的地方，充满了快乐的回忆。James和Peter没有去。自从Harry出生以来，James就没有再参加满月的活动，Remus理解他不想经常离开家人。Peter说了些关于加班的模糊话，坦白说，Remus太忙于担心即将与Greyback的战斗，没去质疑这个。

The wolf probably had a good time that night, but Remus didn’t remember much about it. It all got lost in the blood red haze of transformation, the choking and clawing and groaning as he twisted back into his human form. 狼人在那晚可能玩得很开心，但Remus记不太清楚了。所有的一切都在变身的血红色迷雾中消失，窒息、抓挠和呻吟，他在扭曲回到人形时。

“Urrrgh!” “呜呜呜！”

“I’ve got you, Moony,” Sirius had him by the shoulders, pulling a cloak across his body. Remus forced his eyes open, knowing how little time there was. “我抓住你了，Moony，”Sirius握住他的肩膀，把斗篷拉到他身上。Remus强迫自己睁开眼睛，知道时间所剩无几。

“Wand,” he croaked, getting up. Sirius handed it to him. “We’ve got to go, now,” Remus said, leaning on Sirius for support while he pulled his clothes on, hands shaking and fumbling with the buttons on his shirt and trousers. “魔杖，”他嘶哑地说，站起来。Sirius把魔杖递给他。“我们现在得走，”Remus说，靠在Sirius身上换衣服，手颤抖着在衬衫和裤子的扣子上摸索。

“We’re going, just take a breath,” Sirius said, his voice calm and firm. “Hold on to me, I’ll apparate us…” “我们要走了，深呼吸一下，”Sirius说，他的声音平静而坚定。“抓紧我，我会瞬移我们…”

Sirius was as good as his word; he didn’t try to dissuade Remus from going, or try to tell him what to do. He simply got them where they needed to be. Sirius说到做到；他没有试图劝阻Remus，或是告诉他该做什么。他只是把他们带到了需要去的地方。

Ferox was there already. Ferox已经在那里了。

“All right, lads,” he nodded, keeping his voice low. It was still quite dark under the grey Galloway sky, and the grasslands were cloaked in swaths of gauzy mist, the castle ruin rising from it black and foreboding. It was quiet, no birdsong, no noise at all. Like a place out of time. “好了，伙计们，”他点了点头，声音低沉。在灰暗的加洛韦天空下仍然很黑暗，草地被一层薄纱般的雾气笼罩，城堡废墟从中升起，黑暗而不祥。四周寂静无声，没有鸟鸣，什么声音都没有。就像一个与时间脱节的地方。

“Have you seen anything?” Remus asked, desperately. He could smell them, the scent was very strong. “你看到什么了吗？”Remus绝望地问。他能闻到他们的气味，味道非常浓烈。

“Heard a bit of noise; must have been them turning back.” Ferox said. He gave Remus a look, “You ok, our kid? Looking a bit green about the gills.” “听到了一点噪音；一定是他们转身回去了。”Ferox说。他看了看Remus，“你还好吗，小子？看起来有点面黄肌瘦。”

“Fine,” Remus swallowed, “Fine. We should go in now.” “没事，”Remus咽了口唾沫，“没事。我们现在该进去了。”

“Right you are. Wands out.” Ferox straightened up and started forward, “Pity we couldn’t get ‘em when they were wolves, eh?” He said, with a smirk, “Those pelts fetch a few bob on the black market.” “对的，魔杖拿出来。”Ferox站直了身体，向前走，“真可惜我们没能在他们是狼的时候抓住他们，嗯？”他带着冷笑说，“那些皮毛在黑市上能卖几个钱。”

Remus felt sick, the sweat on his back turned cold. Sirius reached for his hand in the dark and gave it a squeeze, then tossed his head and said sharply, “Don’t say shit like that, it’s disgusting.” Remus感到恶心，背上的汗水变得冰冷。Sirius在黑暗中伸手握住他的手，然后甩了甩头，尖锐地说：“别说那种话，恶心。”

Ferox glanced back at him, shocked, then at Remus. He frowned, “Sorry lad, didn’t mean anything by it.” Ferox惊讶地回头看了看他，然后看向Remus。他皱起了眉头，“对不起，小子，我不是那个意思。”

They didn’t say another word as they approached the castle. Sirius and Ferox were trying to be quiet, but Remus knew they may as well have been a herd of elephants sneaking up on Livia and Greyback, whose senses were as sharp as his, even after the full moon. Still, they might be slower; weaker. 他们在接近城堡时没有再说话。Sirius和Ferox尽量保持安静，但Remus知道，他们可能和一群大象悄悄靠近Livia和Greyback一样，尽管他们的感官在满月后也像他的那样敏锐。尽管如此，他们可能会比较慢；比较弱。

When they were up against the castle wall, Remus felt it. Greyback was waiting. The scent changed, and his head was filled with that dreadful growling voice, “Hello, cub… brought me breakfast, have you?” 当他们靠在城堡墙上时，Remus感到了。Greyback在等待。气味发生了变化，他的脑海里充满了那令人恐惧的低吼声，“你好，小崽子…带了早餐来了吗？”

“He knows we’re here.” Remus whispered, frantically, “Be careful!” “他知道我们在这里。”Remus急切地低声说，“小心点！”

Ferox touched his brow in a sort of salute, to show he understood. Then he rounded the corner and entered, Remus hurrying behind, and Sirius too. Ferox had his wand raised, and as he stepped under the broken archway it the shadows of the ruin, he opened his mouth - he had planned to use the silver chain spell, to bind the werewolves and contain them long enough for the Auror’s to take over - but it was too late. Ferox用一种致敬的方式碰了碰额头，表示他明白了。然后他绕过角落进入，Remus急忙跟在后面，还有Sirius。Ferox举起魔杖，正当他走到破损的拱门下，在废墟的阴影中时，他张开了嘴——他计划使用银链咒语，来束缚狼人并将他们困住足够长的时间，以便Aurors接管——但为时已晚。

Remus was only a split second behind Ferox, and saw the rock come down. He stiffened, then crumpled to the ground, blood oozing from the a cut at the crown of his head. Remus仅比Ferox慢了一秒钟，看到岩石落下。他僵硬了一下，然后摔倒在地，血液从头顶的伤口中渗出。

“No!” Remus cried, over Greyback’s laughter as the beast of a man stepped into the early morning light, his face full of glee. Livia sprung out next, and lunged at Sirius, grabbing his wand and knocking him to the ground. “不！”Remus在Greyback的笑声中哭喊，那个野兽般的人走进了清晨的光线中，他的脸上充满了喜悦。Livia接着跳出来，扑向Sirius，抓住他的魔杖，把他打倒在地。

“Oooooh, who’s this then, brother? Pretty, pretty boy…” she crowed, sitting astride him, holding both of Sirius’s wrists over his head as he struggled. She looked thinner, but was obviously as strong as ever. “哦哦哦，这是谁，哥哥？漂亮的漂亮的小伙子…”她得意地叫道，骑在他身上，双手抓住Sirius的手腕，把他压在头顶，她看起来瘦了，但显然还是那么强壮。

“Let him go!” Remus snarled, raising his wand, furious. Then he screamed in agony. Greyback grabbed his wand arm and twisted it so hard he felt the bone snap. “放开他！”Remus咆哮着，举起魔杖，愤怒不已。然后他痛苦地尖叫。Greyback抓住他的魔杖手臂，狠狠地扭曲，使他感到骨头断裂的声音。

“Remus!” Sirius called out. “Remus！”Sirius呼喊道。

Remus was almost blind with pain, and Greyback laughed again, letting him go. Remus几乎因痛苦而失明，Greyback再次笑了起来，放开了他。

“Welcome back, cub,” he purred. “How I’ve missed you…” “欢迎回来，小崽子，”他低声说，“我有多么想念你…”

“Fuck you.” Remus groaned, staring about for his wand, which he’d dropped somewhere. “去你妈的。”Remus呻吟着，四处寻找他丢失的魔杖。

“Now now,” Greyback chuckled, as Remus straightened up to face him, clutching his broken arm to his chest. “You should be on your hands and knees after what you did to me.” “现在现在，”Greyback笑了笑，当Remus站直身子面对他时，紧紧抱住自己断裂的手臂。“你应该跪地求饶，因为你对我做了什么。”

“Kill him, father!” Livia cackled, “Kill the traitor Remus Lupin, just as he killed my brother Gaius! Then I can have the pretty one!” “杀了他，父亲！”Livia咯咯笑道，“杀死叛徒Remus Lupin，就像他杀了我的哥哥Gaius一样！然后我可以得到这个漂亮的家伙！”

Greyback grinned at her, fondly, “She’s full of bright ideas, my beautiful girl.” Greyback对她露出一个温柔的笑容，“她满脑子都是好主意，我美丽的女孩。”

Remus took the opportunity to look over Greyback’s shoulder - Ferox was moving. Very slowly; he was obviously hurt, but Remus saw his fist tighten around his wand. Remus抓住机会看了一眼Greyback的肩膀——Ferox在移动。非常慢；他明显受了伤，但Remus看到他紧握着魔杖的拳头。

“Go on then!” Remus said to Greyback, gritting his teeth through the pain, “Kill me. Then what?” “那你继续吧！”Remus对Greyback说，咬紧牙关忍受痛苦，“杀了我。然后呢？”

“Then what?!” Greyback sneered, “Then I rip apart your little human pet, that’s what. Then I tear him limb from fucking limb - but not before I’ve had my fun with him…” “然后呢？！”Greyback冷笑道，“然后我撕碎你的小人类宠物，这就是答案。然后我把他撕成四分五裂——但在此之前，我得先和他玩一玩…”

“You’re disgusting!” Remus shot back, stalling for time as Ferox’s eyes opened. May as well tell Greyback what he thought of him, while he had the chance, “You’re filth! You’re nothing! You talk about freedom, but you don’t have the first clue what it is! You’re nothing but a bully! Voldemort’s lapdog!” “你真恶心！”Remus反击道，争取时间让Ferox的眼睛睁开。趁机告诉Greyback他对他的看法，“你是污秽！你什么都不是！你谈论自由，却对自由一无所知！你不过是个恶霸！伏地魔的走狗！”

“Kill him!” Livia shrieked. “杀了他！”Livia尖叫道。

Greyback’s face had turned demonic with rage, yellow eyes glowing, and Remus really thought that would be the end. He scrunched his eyes shut and braced himself. Greyback的脸因愤怒而变得妖异，黄色的眼睛发光，Remus真的以为这将是结局。他紧闭眼睛，做好了准备。

“What?! Argh!” Livia cried out again, and Remus heard a dog bark. “什么？！啊！”Livia再次喊叫，Remus听到一声狗吠。

He opened his eyes to see Livia knocked backwards by Padfoot, who was growling - Remus had never seen him growl before - teeth bared, frothing at the mouth. 他睁开眼睛看到Livia被Padfoot撞倒，Padfoot在咆哮——Remus以前从未见过他咆哮——露出牙齿，口吐白沫。

“Father!” Livia yelped, “Help m---” “父亲！”Livia尖叫道，“救我——”

And with a flash of purple light, Livia was silent. Her eyes went wide, a great black slash had cut her throat. She clutched at her neck to stem the gushing blood, but it was no good, it was too late. 随着一闪而过的紫色光芒，Livia变得沉默。她的眼睛瞪大，一道巨大的黑色伤口切开了她的喉咙。她抓住脖子试图止住喷涌的血液，但已经来不及了。

Greyback gave a great roar of anguish, but Ferox was already on his feet, wand up, ready to cast the same curse again. Greyback was cornered. Greyback发出了一声巨大的痛苦咆哮，但Ferox已经站起来，魔杖在手，准备再次施放同样的咒语。Greyback被逼到了绝境。

“You’re a dead man.” He hissed at Ferox, and then, with one final snarl, he disapparated.你已經是個死人了。”他對費洛克斯發出嘶嘶聲，然後，隨著最後一聲咆哮，他消失了。 

“Bugger!” Ferox grunted, stumbling forward, still poised to curse. “混蛋！”費洛克斯咕噥著，跌跌撞撞地向前走去，仍然準備著咒罵。 

Sirius was Sirius again, and stood beside Livia, staring down at her. Remus went over too, feeling an uncomfortable mix of relief and genuine sorrow. Her grey fur cloak was matted with blood, which looked deep purple in the dim light. It was dreadful, but his first concern was for Sirius, 

天狼星又是天狼星了，他站在莉薇亞身邊，低頭看著她。萊姆斯也走了過去，心裡既感到寬慰，又感到真正的悲傷，感到一種不舒服的感覺。她的灰色毛皮斗篷上沾滿了血跡，在昏暗的燈光下顯得深紫色。這很可怕，但他首先關心的是天狼星，

 “Ok?” He asked, quietly. Sirius nodded, still looking down. “You?” 

 “Think so.” 

His arm was throbbing, sending shooting pains up into his shoulder; but he knew that could be fixed. Livia could not. Ferox joined them, a hand pressed to his head where the rock had struck him.

“也這樣覺得。”他的手臂一陣陣抽痛，肩膀上傳來陣陣刺痛。但他知道這是可以解決的。莉維亞不能。費洛克斯加入了他們，一隻手按在他被岩石擊中的頭部。

 “Merlin, what a mess.” He muttered. “At least we got the bitch.”

 “Her name’s Livia.” Remus said, angrily. 

He suddenly saw the scene as a passerby might. Three men standing over her tiny body.他突然像路人一樣看到了這一幕。三個男人站在她小小的身體旁。

 She could have ripped each of their throats out the night before without stopping for breath. She was a force of nature; queen of the night; she was one of the strongest people he had ever met. She was one of the only people in the world who truly understood what it meant to be a wolf.

 Her eyes were still open, staring blindly at the broad grey sky. Remus knelt beside her, and gently closed them.

她本可以在前一天晚上不停歇地把他們的喉嚨撕下來。她是一種自然的力量；夜女王；她是他見過的最堅強的人之一。她是世界上唯一真正理解狼意味著什麼的人之一。

 

她的眼睛仍然睜著，茫然地望著廣闊的灰色天空。萊姆斯跪在她身邊，輕輕合上它們。

Notes: 

Song at the beginning is Too Much Too Young by The Specials

This fic has been nominated for a Marauder Medal by the Shrieking Shack Society! Last year, with all your lovely help, I won 'Best Work in Progress'. This year I'm lucky enough to be nominated for TWO awards!
- Best Characterisation of James
- Best Characterisation of Remus

I am so, so thrilled to be nominated, so thank you so much to whoever it was! I put a lot of effort into making sure all my characters are believable, three-dimensional people, and this was such a lovely surprise :)

If you would like to vote for me to win either/both of these awards, you can do that here:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdGm5P_Ehq5Sjxdut6wJd71jZbh1EMQLREyDFhXlqhVfJ3VuA/viewform

Make sure to check out the other fics nominated too!

Thanks once again, I have such an incredble readership and I'm really, really grateful!

 

Chapter 170: The War: Winter 1980 & Spring 1981 

Well I love you baby,

I'm telling you right here.

But please don't make me decide baby

Between you and a bottle of beer!

 

Baby come on over;

Come on over to my side.

Well I may not live past twenty-one

But WOO!

What a way to die!

 Sirius made Remus go straight to bed after the skirmish in Galloway. Ferox summoned Moody to the scene, and he excused them. Remus wanted to ask about Livia’s body - were they planning to bury her, at least? He didn’t know if Livia had had any wishes regarding her final resting place, but he assumed she’d prefer to be somewhere in nature; somewhere moonlight could reach her. Sirius在Galloway的冲突之后让Remus直接上床休息。Ferox召唤了Moody到现场，他为他们辩解。Remus想问Livia的尸体——他们打算埋葬她吗？他不知道Livia是否有关于她最后安息之地的任何愿望，但他猜她会希望被安置在自然之中；在月光能够照耀到的地方。

 

Marlene came over the flat on her way to work to sort out his broken arm. Marlene在上班途中过来修理他的断臂。

“Thanks, Marls,” he smiled weakly, “I can do dislocations no problem, but broken bones…” “谢谢，Marls，”他虚弱地笑了笑，“脱臼我没问题，但骨折就…”

“You really shouldn’t be doing spells on yourself, Remus,” she chided, “You know you can always contact me, if you need to.” “你真的不应该自己施放咒语，Remus，”她责备道，“你知道你可以随时联系我，如果你需要的话。”

“I know.” “我知道。”

She left a sleeping draught and some more of her own ointment for pain relief, and ordered him to stay in bed and do nothing useful or important for at least forty-eight hours. 她留下了安眠药和一些她自己制作的止痛药膏，并命令他至少在床上待四十八小时，不做任何有用或重要的事情。

It wasn’t until the next day, when Remus woke up after two in the afternoon, that he was suddenly gripped with terror at the memory of Greyback’s last words. 直到第二天，Remus在下午两点多醒来时，他突然被Greyback最后的话语吓坏了。

“He’s going to kill Ferox!” He shouted, sitting up in bed. “他要杀了Ferox！”他喊道，坐起身来。

Sirius came through from the living room, eyes wide with concern, “What?” Sirius从客厅走过来，眼中充满了担忧，“什么？”

“We need to find Greyback!” Remus said, climbing out of bed, limbs creaking, “He said he’d kill Ferox!” “我们需要找到Greyback！”Remus说，一边从床上爬起来，四肢吱嘎作响，“他说他会杀了Ferox！”

“Moony, it’s all taken care of,” Sirius said, placing cool hands on Remus’s shoulders, smoothing down his arms in a comforting gesture, “Ferox is going to move to a safe house, he’ll up his security and be extra vigilant, don’t worry.” “Moony，一切都处理好了，”Sirius说，把凉爽的手放在Remus的肩膀上，安抚性地抚摸他的胳膊，“Ferox会搬到一个安全屋，他会提高安全级别并更加警惕，不要担心。”

“It won’t be enough,” Remus shook his head, batting away Sirius’s attempts to calm him, “Moody and Ferox, they don’t treat Greyback like a proper threat - look at what happened! He’s more dangerous than they think, and now he’s angry…” “这还不够，”Remus摇摇头，打断了Sirius安抚他的尝试，“Moody和Ferox，他们没有把Greyback当成真正的威胁——看看发生了什么！他比他们想的更危险，现在他很生气…”

“I’m sure Moody knows that, even if Ferox is a bit cavalier about it.” Sirius said. He was being so diplomatic; so reasonable, it was infuriating. “我相信Moody知道这一点，即使Ferox对这事有点随意。”Sirius说。他非常圆滑、理智，这让人生气。“你感觉怎么样？我去泡水，你去洗个澡吧？你会感觉好一点的……”

Remus did take a bath, because his muscles still hurt. He slathered on a bit of poultice afterwards, which at least meant he could straighten up fully. He refused to rest. All he wanted to do was check on Ferox - make sure he had the right security in place. After all, wasn’t it Remus who’d been doing all the grunt work on protection charms? It was within his remit, surely. Remus确实洗了个澡，因为他的肌肉仍然疼痛。他之后涂抹了一些药膏，这至少让他可以完全伸直。他拒绝休息。他只想去检查Ferox——确保他有合适的安全措施。毕竟，是Remus一直在做保护咒语的繁重工作。这应该在他的职责范围内。

In the end, Sirius gave in and summoned Moody through the fireplace. The Auror’s grizzled head hovered in the flames like a hideous easter egg. 最后，Sirius妥协了，通过壁炉召唤了Moody。Auror那满是胡茬的头在火焰中悬浮，就像一个可怕的复活节彩蛋。

“All in hand, Lupin,” he barked, “You can stand down.” “一切都掌控之中，Lupin，”他厉声道，“你可以撤下了。”

“But Mad-Eye,” Remus pleaded, on his knees in front of the hearth, “Greyback will find him, I know he will, he’ll be able to follow the scent - if you just tell me where he is, then I can--” “但是Mad-Eye，”Remus在壁炉前跪下乞求，“Greyback会找到他的，我知道他会，他能够追踪气味——如果你告诉我他在哪里，那我可以——”

“Classified information.” Moody snapped. “Every precaution has been taken. You can trust that the Auror’s office can cope with a lone werewolf.” “机密信息。”Moody厉声道。“所有预防措施都已经到位。你可以相信Auror办公室能应付一个孤狼。”

Remus’s temper rose, and he was about to retort, but Moody signed off. “No time for this, Lupin, it’s been a busy week. Get some rest.” Remus的脾气上来了，他正要反驳，但Moody挂断了电话。“没时间讨论这个了，Lupin，这周很忙。去休息一下吧。”

Remus groaned furiously, slamming his fist on the rug. Remus愤怒地呻吟着，拳头重重地砸在地毯上。

“See?” Sirius said, standing behind him, “Moody’s got it all sorted.” “看？”Sirius站在他身后说，“Moody已经搞定了一切。”

“But I need to be sure,” Remus said, climbing to his feet, “They don’t understand, not really, not like…” “但我需要确认，”Remus说，站起来，“他们不明白，真的，不像…”

“Not like you do?” “不像你明白的那样？”

“Exactly!” “正是！”

“Remus,” Sirius’s voice hardened, out of nowhere, “You need to be careful with that kind of talk. I think… I think you ought to put a lid on the werewolf stuff, for a bit.” “Remus，”Sirius的声音突然变得严厉，“你需要小心这种言论。我认为……我认为你应该暂时放下那些‘狼人问题’。”

“What?” Remus turned to look at him, blindsided. “‘The werewolf stuff’!? What’s that supposed to mean? I am a werewolf.” “什么？”Remus转过身来盯着他，“‘狼人问题’！？那是什么意思？我就是狼人。”

“I know,” Sirius bit his lip, “But you’re a wizard too, and you’re on our side. It just might be a good idea to focus on something else, you don’t want anyone in the order to get the wrong end of the stick…” “我知道，”Sirius咬着嘴唇，“但你也是个巫师，你在我们这一边。专注于别的事情可能是个好主意，你不想让任何人在组织中误解你…”

Remus gaped at Sirius as if he was a complete stranger. Remus瞪着Sirius，好像他是个完全陌生的人。

“The wrong end of the stick…?” “误解…？”

“I’m not trying to upset you,” Sirius said, choosing his words carefully, “I’m only warning you - things are bad enough already, no one trusts anyone. Frank told me Dumbledore thinks there’s a spy in the Order, and if you keep bringing up how chummy you are with dark creatures then--” “我不是想让你不高兴，”Sirius说，选择着自己的词语，“我只是警告你——情况已经够糟糕了，没人信任任何人。Frank告诉我Dumbledore认为组织里有间谍，如果你继续提到你和黑暗生物关系密切的话……”

“I am not ‘chummy’ with dark creatures!” Remus shouted. “How can you… unless you’re saying I’m a dark creature too?!” “我和黑暗生物没有‘密切关系’！”Remus喊道。“你怎么能…除非你说我也是黑暗生物？！”

“Of course I’m not!” Sirius returned, clearly offended, “It’s just... you know how much prejudice there is, and it’s not going to do you any favours to broadcast this weird connection you have with them. I saw Livia, I saw Greyback, you’re nothing like them. Don’t let people think you are.” “当然不是！”Sirius反驳道，显然感到受了冒犯，“只是……你知道有多少偏见，把你和他们的这种奇怪联系公之于众对你没有好处。我见过Livia，也见过Greyback，你一点也不像他们。不要让人觉得你是那样的。”

“Has somebody said something?” Remus asked, wondering where this was coming from, “Was it Danny, or--” “有人说了什么吗？”Remus问，想知道这些话从何而来，“是Danny，还是——”

“No, it’s not… it’s… well, after you spent all that time with them, people have raised concerns, that’s all. You can understand that, can’t you?” “不，不是……就是……在你花了那么多时间和他们在一起之后，人们提出了一些担忧，仅此而已。你能理解的，对吧？”

“No I can’t! I was only with the pack because Dumbledore ordered it! Just like I’ve always done everything Dumbledore’s told me to!” “我不能理解！我只是因为Dumbledore的命令才和那个狼群在一起！就像我一直按照Dumbledore的要求做一切一样！”

“I know that…” Sirius looked away, as if embarrassed. “我知道……”Sirius看向别处，似乎感到尴尬。

He tucked a strand of hair behind his ear. Remus knew that gesture. Sirius was nervous. He clenched his jaw. 他把一缕头发塞到耳后。Remus知道这个动作。Sirius很紧张。他咬紧了牙关。

“Do you trust me?” He asked, knowing his body language was aggressive, but not willing to temper it. “你相信我吗？”他问，知道自己的肢体语言有些攻击性，但不愿意缓和。

Sirius looked up at him, blue eyes filled with alarm. Sirius抬头看着他，蓝色的眼睛充满了惊恐。

“Of course I do! It’s just…” His eyes fell again, another swish of hair, “You’ve always been good at keeping secrets, Moony…” “当然相信！只是……”他的目光再次落下，头发又一抹，“你一直擅长保守秘密，Moony……”

Remus’s mouth dropped open. He clenched his fists, then unclenched them. Remus张大了嘴巴。他握紧拳头，然后松开。

“Fine.” He said, coldly. “If that’s how you feel.” “好吧。”他说，冷冷地。“如果你这么觉得。”

He turned and walked out of the flat. Sirius didn’t try to stop him. 他转身走出了公寓。Sirius没有试图阻止他。

Remus went to the nearest corner shop first, and bought an extremely cheap and nasty bottle of gin. Then the problem was where to drink it. He didn’t want to look like an alkie, chugging hard spirits on the street in broad daylight. But then he didn’t really have anywhere else to go, either. Remus首先去了最近的便利店，买了一瓶极其便宜且恶劣的杜松子酒。然后问题是在哪里喝。他不想在大白天的街上看起来像个酒鬼，喝烈酒。但他也确实没有其他地方去。

He considered looking for Grant, but he didn’t know if he’d be working that day. Grant had moved back to London early in the spring, after too many times stuck on the late train back to Brighton. He was living in a bedsit somewhere north - but based on the telephone conversations they’d had, he rarely slept there. Grant had a string of paramours, and if he wasn’t attending a lecture he could usually be found bed hopping - or at work, in the Sawyer’s Arms pub. 他考虑找Grant，但他不知道Grant那天是否在工作。Grant早春时搬回了伦敦，因多次被困在回布赖顿的晚班火车上。他住在北边某个地方的一个小房间里——但根据他们的电话谈话，他很少在那里过夜。Grant有一系列情人，如果他不去听讲座，通常可以在换床之间找到——或者在Sawyer’s Arms酒吧工作。

“Variety is the spice of life,” he teased Remus, “And I’m crap on my own. Can’t hack the quiet.” “变化是生活的调味品，”他戏弄Remus，“我自己太差了。无法忍受寂静。”

Remus knew how that felt. A lot of the time it was the reason he drank. In the end, he decided he was too angry to be around anyone else, and went to hide in the park like a proper old waster. He ought to have gone to Grant’s, he thought, once he was properly drunk; that would serve Sirius right. Remus知道这种感觉。很多时候，这就是他喝酒的原因。最后，他决定自己太愤怒了，无法和其他人待在一起，于是像个真正的酒鬼一样去公园里藏身。他想，他应该去Grant那儿，等他彻底醉了；那样会让Sirius受罚。

He grieved for Livia, too; and made a silent toast. She’d been cruel, yes, and a murderer. But none of it had been her fault, really - not if you went back far enough. She’d been taken by Greyback before she was old enough to speak; when she was Harry’s age, maybe. Livia had no choice but to become a killer, any more than Remus had a choice about his drinking. 他也为Livia哀悼，并默默地举杯致敬。她曾经很残忍，是个杀人犯。但这些其实都不是她的错——如果你追溯得足够远的话。她在还没足够大到能说话之前就被Greyback带走了；也许是和Harry差不多大。Livia别无选择，只能成为一个杀手，就像Remus无法选择他的饮酒一样。

He went home eventually, when it got too cold. He hadn’t thought to bring a coat when he stormed out. Sirius was sitting on the couch, waiting for him, hands twisting anxiously in his lap. When Remus walked in, Sirius took one look at him, and - no doubt smelling the gin - shook his head, disappointed, and got up to make a pot of strong tea. 最终，他回了家，当天气变得太冷的时候。他在暴怒离开时没想到带上外套。Sirius坐在沙发上等他，双手焦虑地扭曲在膝上。当Remus走进来时，Sirius看了一眼他，毫无疑问闻到了杜松子酒的味道，摇了摇头，失望地站起来去泡一壶浓茶。

They didn’t say much, and they never spoke about ‘werewolf stuff’ again. 他们没有说太多话，也再没有提起过‘狼人问题’。

* * *

Remus did not celebrate Christmas 1980.

In fact, he did not see any of his friends, or Sirius, from the full moon, which fell on 21st December, until January. He spent it hiding in Moody’s cellar, with Danny McKinnon.

Ferox was dead.

Not just dead; destroyed; eviscerated. Ripped to pieces. According to the Daily Prophet, every wall of Ferox’s house was splattered with blood. Moody said that the carpet was so saturated it squelched under their feet - the Aurors who’d arrived on the scene. 不仅仅是死了；是被摧毁了；是被肠子撕裂的。撕成了碎片。根据《今日预言家》的报道，Ferox的房子的每面墙壁上都溅满了血。Moody说地毯已经被浸湿到脚下发出吱吱的声音——到场的傲罗们说的。

Greyback had made good on his promise, just as Remus had tried to warn them. But he couldn’t bring himself to say ‘I told you so’. He was too angry. Angrier still, when Moody told him he’d need to hide from the Ministry. Greyback兑现了他的承诺，就像Remus曾试图警告他们的那样。但他无法说出‘我早说过了’。他太生气了。更生气的是，当Moody告诉他需要躲藏在魔法部时。

Ferox’s murder spurred the wizarding public to demand a clampdown on werewolves. There were too many unregistered names; laws needed to be harsher; the register ought to be published. It was no longer safe - two days after Ferox’s death hit the headlines, a known werewolf, Theodora Lupa, was attacked in her home. She was fully registered, and had spent the full moon locked up in the cells at the Ministry, but her innocence meant nothing to the vengeful mob. Ferox的谋杀激发了巫师界公众要求对狼人进行打压的呼声。登记的名字太多了；法律需要更加严厉；注册名单应该公开。已经不再安全——在Ferox的死讯登上头条两天后，一位知名狼人Theodora Lupa在家中遭到了袭击。她已完全登记，并在魔法部的牢房里度过了满月，但她的清白对复仇的暴民来说毫无意义。

What was more, the Death Eaters appeared to be using the excuse to stir up more bias against magical creatures - it was understood that Voldemort himself was offering a reward for information on the locations of any ‘half-breeds’. 更糟糕的是，食死徒似乎利用这个借口煽动对魔法生物的更多偏见——据说伏地魔本人正在提供有关任何“半血种”的位置的信息奖励。

So Remus was forced to hide. 所以Remus被迫藏起来。

“I’ll miss Harry’s first Christmas.” He said stupidly, as he packed his suitcase. “我会错过Harry的第一个圣诞节。”他傻傻地说，同时打包他的行李箱。

“James and Lily will understand.” Sirius said. He was watching Remus from the bed, pale with terror. “We all just want you safe.” “James和Lily会理解的。”Sirius说。他从床上看着Remus，脸色苍白，充满恐惧。“我们都只是希望你安全。”

“I know.” Remus nodded. There was nothing more to say. “我知道。”Remus点了点头。没有什么更多要说的了。

They shared a chaste kiss goodbye. Things hadn’t been the same since Livia died, and news of Ferox’s hellish demise had turned Remus completely numb. 他们分享了一个纯洁的告别吻。自从Livia去世后，事情就再也不是一样的了，Ferox那地狱般的死讯让Remus彻底麻木。

Moody was not much of a host. He blindfolded Remus and made him side-along, so he had no idea where he was. He saw none of the house - if it was a house - but the whole place reeked of black magic, so heavy and thick Remus thought he’d choke on it. Moody并不是一个好东道主。他给Remus蒙上了眼罩，让他侧身跟着他走，所以他完全不知道自己在哪里。他没看到那房子——如果那是房子的话——但整个地方散发着黑魔法的气味，沉重而浓厚，Remus觉得自己快要窒息了。

In the cellar, his blindfold was removed, and it was a sorry sight. Danny sat on one rickety put-up bed, and there was another pushed back against the opposite wall. There were no windows, and the walls were bare brick. Moody had put aside some provisions - he explained that there were so many protection charms and cloaking spells on the cellar door that it took hours to enter or to leave, so it was best they just sat tight until he told them the coast was clear. 在地下室里，他的眼罩被摘掉了，场景十分悲惨。Danny坐在一张摇摇欲坠的临时床上，另一张床被推回到对面的墙边。没有窗户，墙壁是裸砖。Moody预留了一些生活必需品——他解释说地下室门上有太多的保护咒语和隐形咒语，进出都需要几个小时，所以最好还是耐心等待，直到他告诉他们一切安全。

Remus agreed, only because he knew that he could break the charms if he wanted. Remus同意了，仅仅因为他知道如果他愿意，可以打破那些咒语。

There was a little toilet at the back with a sink - no shower, so they’d have to do their best with a flannel and a bar of soap. The food was all dried stuff that didn’t need too much preparation, and besides that there was nothing at all. Remus was just glad he’d had the foresight to bring a few books. Not to mention the bottle of firewhisky he’d stashed just in case. 后面有一个小厕所，配有洗手池——没有淋浴，所以他们只能用毛巾和一块肥皂尽力清洁。食物都是干的，不需要太多准备，除此之外什么也没有。Remus很庆幸他有先见之明带了几本书。更不用说他藏起来的那瓶火威士忌，以备不时之需。

“Hi.” Danny said, dully. “嗨。”Danny无精打采地说。

“Hello.” Remus nodded, as Moody locked the door at the top of the stairs. “你好。”Remus点了点头，Moody在楼梯上锁上了门。

“This is shit, isn’t it?” “这真糟糕，不是吗？”

“Yeah.” Remus went over and set his suitcase beside his bed, then sat on it. It sagged heavily, and squeaked. A faint smell of mildew rose from it, which put him in mind of the Shrieking Shack. “是的。”Remus走过去，把他的行李箱放在床边，然后坐了上去。床垫沉重地下陷，发出吱吱的声音。床上散发出一股轻微的霉味，让他想起了尖叫的小屋。

“Never spent a Christmas away from my family.” Danny said. “Even when I was touring.” “从未在家人之外度过圣诞节。”Danny说。“即使在我巡演的时候也是如此。”

Remus nodded, glumly. He hadn’t had Christmas without Sirius in almost ten years. Remus沮丧地点了点头。他已经有近十年没有和Sirius一起过圣诞节了。

“Couldn’t believe it when I heard about Leo Ferox. He was so… I dunno, I just really thought he’d make it through the war. Did you er… know him well?” “听到Leo Ferox的事我简直不敢相信。他是那么……我也不知道，我只是非常相信他会活过这场战争。你呃……认识他吗？”

“He was my Care of Magical Creatures professor,” Remus offered. He wasn’t quite sure it had sunk in yet. He didn’t really feel very much, when he thought about Ferox; only a blurry sort of wistfulness. “他是我的神奇生物护理教授，”Remus提供道。他不太确定自己是否已经接受了这一点。想到Ferox时，他的感觉并不强烈；只是有种模糊的怀旧感。

“Oh wow,” Danny said, “Bet he was good at that.” “哇哦，”Danny说，“敢打赌他一定很擅长那个。”

“Yeah, he was,” Remus gave a small smile, “Had loads of good stories.” He suddenly remembered Achilles, Ferox’s kneazle - what had happened to it? He thought about Greyback, in full wolf form, coming across the sleek silver animal, and for the first time, his eyes filled with tears. “是的，他很擅长，”Remus露出一丝微笑，“有很多很棒的故事。”他突然想起了Achilles，Ferox的kneazle——它发生了什么事？他想到Greyback，全狼形态，遇到那只光滑的银色动物，眼睛第一次充满了泪水。

Bugger. Why did this have to happen now? He thought, as his shoulders began to shake and he tried to get himself under control. Why couldn’t I get emotional at the flat, when it was just Sirius? Sirius wouldn’t care if he cried. It was no good. He covered his face with his hands and just waited for it to stop. 真是糟糕。为什么现在非得发生这些事呢？他想，肩膀开始颤抖，努力控制自己。为什么我在公寓里时不能流露感情，那只是Sirius而已？Sirius不会在意他哭泣的。没有用。他用手捂住脸，只是等着这一切停止。

“Sorry, Remus,” Danny said, awkwardly. “I didn’t realise… he must have meant a lot to you.” “对不起，Remus，”Danny尴尬地说，“我没意识到……他一定对你很重要。”

That made Remus cry harder, because of course Ferox had meant a lot. He was Remus’s first crush (not counting David Bowie, maybe), even if Remus hadn’t fully understood it at the time. He was one of the first adults Remus trusted, who made him feel like a person with value. Maybe they’d clashed a bit, as Remus had grown up, but no one was perfect. 这让Remus哭得更厉害，因为Ferox当然很重要。他是Remus的初恋（也许不包括David Bowie），即使Remus当时并没有完全理解。他是Remus最早信任的成年人之一，让他觉得自己是一个有价值的人。也许他们在Remus长大过程中发生了一些冲突，但没有人是完美的。

“I’m sorry,” he coughed, wiping his eyes with his sleeve, “It’s been a bad year.” “对不起，”他咳嗽着，擦拭眼泪，“这是糟糕的一年。”

“You can say that again.” Danny said. “Oh, Marls says hello. You should’ve seen her when Moody came for me, she was all set to come along too.” “你说得对。”Danny说，“哦，Marls向你问好。你应该看看当Moody来找我的时候，她还准备一起来的。”

“Really?” Remus smiled, sniffing, “That sounds like her.” “真的吗？”Remus笑了，抽泣着，“那听起来像她。”

“Yeah, she said to give you a hug and a kiss, so tell her I did, ok?” “是的，她让我给你一个拥抱和吻，所以告诉她我已经做到了，好吗？”

“Ok,” Remus laughed, feeling a bit more normal. “好的，”Remus笑了，感觉稍微正常一点。

They pottered about a bit in their little living space. Remus tried not to think about the cell at St Edmund’s, or the Shrieking Shack, or the crypt in the forest - every cage he’d ever been forced into. He unpacked his clothes, then, finding nowhere to put them, re-packed them and slid his suitcase under the bed, leaving only his pyjamas out. 他们在小小的生活空间里闲逛了一会儿。Remus尽量不去想St Edmund’s的牢房，或尖叫的小屋，或森林中的地下室——他曾经被迫进入的每一个牢笼。他 unpack 了衣服，然后发现没有地方放它们，就重新打包，把行李箱滑到床下，只留下睡衣。

They had a little bit to eat - just some bread and cheese. Remus hadn’t eaten any meat since hearing about Ferox. 他们吃了一点东西——只是些面包和奶酪。自从听到Ferox的事后，Remus没有再吃肉。

“What were you going to do for Christmas, if you weren’t stuck here?” Danny asked, over supper. “如果你没有被困在这里，你打算怎么过圣诞节？”Danny在晚餐时问道。

“Spend it at the Potters.” Remus replied, “With the new baby.” “和Potters一起过。”Remus回答道，“还有那个新生儿。”

“Oh yeah, of course, you’re all mates, aren’t you,” Danny nodded. “Marlene talks about you all like you’re celebrities.” “哦，是的，当然，你们都是朋友，不是吗？”Danny点头说。“Marlene谈到你们时，就像你们是名人一样。”

“Ha.” Remus grunted. “Maybe James and Lily. And Sirius.” “哈。”Remus哼了一声。“也许James和Lily。还有Sirius。”

Danny cleared his throat awkwardly. Danny尴尬地清了清喉咙。

“Marls said you and he were…” “Marls说你和他……”

Remus just looked back at him, holding his gaze, allowing him to feel uncomfortable. Danny finally looked away, “Obviously that’s fine. I’m fine with Marlene and Yaz, aren’t I?” Remus只是看着他，盯着他，让他感到不舒服。Danny终于移开了视线，“显然这没问题。我对Marlene和Yaz没意见，不是吗？”

Remus just shrugged, Remus只是耸了耸肩，

“It’s a bit like being a werewolf,” he said, pulling the crust off his bread, “Everyone’s perfectly ‘fine’ with it, as long as you never bring it up.” “这有点像成为一个狼人，”他说，撕下面包的硬皮，“每个人都‘没问题’，只要你从不提起它。”

He had a few leftover cigarettes, and would have liked one after dinner, but for one thing, he didn’t want to share, and for another, there weren’t any windows and it seemed a bit rude to smoke the place out. God, he thought, this is going to be agony. 他还有几根剩下的香烟，本来想晚餐后抽一根，但一方面他不想分享，另一方面，这里没有窗户，抽烟会让地方变得有点不礼貌。天啊，他想，这将是折磨。

Things got even more awkward when it came time for bed. They were both yawning, and agreed it was quite late, and that they were tired. Remus began to take his socks off, and stood up to unbutton his trousers, when he realised Danny had not moved. He couldn’t see why he was so shy; didn’t quidditch players get undressed in front of each other all the time? James had been a borderline exhibitionist in the dorm room at Hogwarts. And surely Danny couldn’t be shy about scars; Remus had heaps more than him. 上床睡觉时情况变得更加尴尬。他们都打着哈欠，认为已经很晚了，都很疲倦。Remus开始脱掉袜子，站起来解开裤子的扣子时，他意识到Danny还没有动。他看不出为什么他会这么害羞；难道魁地奇选手不总是在彼此面前脱衣服吗？James在霍格沃茨的宿舍里曾经是个边缘的展示狂。Danny肯定不会对伤疤感到害羞；Remus的伤疤比他多得多。

“Close quarters.” Remus commented, hoping to put Danny more at ease. “狭小的空间。”Remus评论道，希望让Danny感到更加舒适。

Danny twisted his mouth, eyes flicking up and down Remus’s height. Danny扭了扭嘴，眼睛上下扫视着Remus的身高。

“Er… Just so you know, it’s not like I’ve got a problem with it… with you. But I don’t swing that way.” Danny eyed him warily. “呃……只是让你知道，我并不是说我对这件事……对你有问题。但我并不那样。”Danny警惕地看着他。

Remus rolled his eyes. Remus翻了个白眼。

“Oh, poor me, whatever will I do?” He drawled, then turned his back and got into his pyjamas. “哦，可怜的我，我该怎么办？”他拖长音调地说，然后转过身穿上了睡衣。

He climbed into bed and rolled onto his side, facing the wall, to prove that he couldn’t care less which way Danny ‘swung’. Have you seen my boyfriend?! He wanted to say. As if I’d be interested in you, you big lump. 他爬上床，侧身躺下，面朝墙壁，以证明他不在乎Danny‘倾向’哪一边。你见过我的男朋友吗？！他想说。好像我会对你感兴趣，你这大块头。

Eventually, Danny undressed and got into bed too, then flicked out the light. Remus could hear his heart beating, and realised that Danny could probably hear his, too. They had even less privacy than they thought. 最终，Danny也脱掉衣服上了床，然后熄灭了灯。Remus能听到他的心跳，意识到Danny也许能听到他的心跳。他们的隐私比他们想象的还要少。

“Sorry, Remus.” Danny whispered, eventually, “I didn’t mean anything by it.” “对不起，Remus。”Danny最终低声说，“我并没有恶意。”

That echoed something Ferox had said, and Remus felt the sadness return. He rolled onto his back, and spoke to the ceiling, “It’s ok. Forgotten.” 这让Remus想起了Ferox说过的话，他感到悲伤再次袭来。他翻身仰躺，对着天花板说，“没关系。已经忘记了。”

Quiet for a while. Remus waited, hearing Danny poised on the cusp of a question. 安静了一会儿。Remus等待着，听到Danny在准备问问题。

“Did he always know?” Danny whispered. “Sirius?” “他一直知道吗？”Danny低声问道，“Sirius？”

“Hmm?” Remus squinted over at him. “嗯？”Remus眯着眼看向他。

“You know. Did he always know you were a werewolf?” “你知道的。他一直知道你是个狼人吗？”

“Oh. Yeah - mostly. He worked it out, when we were twelve or something.” “哦。是的——大部分是。他在我们十二岁左右的时候就明白了。”

“And he still… I mean you still got together.” “他仍然……我的意思是你们仍然在一起。”

“Yeah.” “是的。”

“That’s good.” Danny said, sounding very earnest, “It’s nice to think… to think someone might be able to look past it, one day, you know?” “这很好。”Danny说，声音很真诚，“想到……想到有一天可能有人能够超越这个，真的很好，你知道吗？”

“It shouldn’t be something people have to look past in order to love you.” Remus said, fiercely, “It’s part of who you are.” “这不应该是人们必须忽视的东西才能爱你。”Remus激烈地说，“这是你的一部分。”

Danny didn’t reply. Danny没有回答。

Things got a bit easier between them, after the first night, but they kept each other at a distance anyway. Remus did a lot of reading. Danny sometimes exercised, doing press ups or jogging on the spot. It was annoying, but Remus couldn’t blame him. 他们之间的关系在第一晚之后变得稍微容易了一些，但他们仍然保持一定距离。Remus读了很多书。Danny有时锻炼，做俯卧撑或原地跑步。虽然很烦人，但Remus不能怪他。

On Christmas day, Remus couldn’t take it any more, and whipped out the bottle of fire whisky. They both got extremely drunk, and spent all of Boxing Day hungover. The room stank. 圣诞节那天，Remus再也忍不住了，拿出了火威士忌。他们俩都喝得醉醺醺的，整个节礼日都在宿醉。房间里满是恶臭。

By the 27th, they were climbing the walls. Remus had finished his books - Danny had even read one of them, and they’d tried to have a conversation about it, but Danny knew so little about muggles that he hadn’t really understood the plot. 到了27号，他们都快发疯了。Remus读完了他的书——Danny甚至读了一本，他们尝试过讨论一下，但Danny对麻瓜了解得太少，根本没真正理解情节。

“How much longer can it be?!” Danny said, exasperated. It was the 31st, the last day of the year. “What if we’re still here for the full moon?!” “还要多久？！”Danny气喘吁吁地说。今天是31号，年的最后一天。“如果我们还在这里等满月怎么办？！”

“That’s weeks away.” Remus replied. He was lying on his back on his bed, an arm slung over his face. Danny snored, and kept him up all night. “Anyway, we’d be fine, best place for us.” “那还要几周。”Remus回答道。他躺在床上，一只手搭在脸上。Danny打鼾，把他整夜都吵醒了。“反正我们会没事的，这对我们来说是最好的地方。”

“What if we attack each other?” “如果我们互相攻击怎么办？”

“Well, I won’t attack you if you don’t attack me.” “嗯，如果你不攻击我，我也不会攻击你。”

“You mean you can control it?!” “你的意思是你能控制它？！”

Remus sighed. Remus叹了口气。

“Yeah. You can too. Not around humans, but other animals. Other wolves, it’s fine. Why’d you think they live in packs?” “是的。你也可以。不在人类周围，但其他动物可以。其他狼没问题。你为什么觉得它们会群居？”

“I never really thought.” Danny said. “What was it like? The pack?” “我从未真正考虑过。”Danny说。“群体是什么样的？”

Remus bit his lip. Should he lie? Or did Danny deserve to know? Remus咬了咬嘴唇。他应该撒谎吗？还是Danny应该知道？

“It… wasn’t as bad as I thought it would be.” He said. That was the first time he’d admitted it. “Obviously Greyback was… but the rest of them. The ones who split off - they were ok. They were like family.” “这……并没有我想象的那么糟。”他说。这是他第一次承认这一点。“显然Greyback很糟，但其他人。那些分裂出去的人——他们还好。他们像家人一样。”

“Well.” Danny said. “I’ve got a family already.” “嗯。”Danny说。“我已经有了一个家庭。”

That was how it went, with Danny. He wanted to know things - he wanted to learn from Remus, but if he heard anything that made him uncomfortable it was right back to self-loathing. 事情就是这样发展下去的，和Danny。他想了解一些事情——他想向Remus学习，但如果他听到让他不舒服的东西，他会立刻回到自我厌恶中。

Remus missed Sirius so much he swore he could feel it in his gut like hunger. He wanted so desperately to have someone he could really talk to; what a relief it would be to spend time with his best friend, to relax. I’ll apologise, he promised himself, I’ll never get angry at him again. I’ll kiss his feet and crawl over hot coals and broken glass if it’ll get things back the way they were. Remus非常想念Sirius，他发誓自己能在内心深处感受到这种痛苦，像饥饿一样。他非常渴望有一个可以真正交谈的人；能和最好的朋友一起度过时光，放松一下将是多么大的解脱。我会道歉，他对自己承诺道，我再也不会对他生气了。如果这能让一切回到原样，我会亲吻他的脚，跪过炭火和破碎的玻璃。

He didn’t want to end up like Danny. 他不想变得像Danny一样。

 

They were a week into the new year by the time Mad Eye finally came for them. They both caught his scent at once, and sat up, keenly staring at the door. They’d almost run out of food by then, and Remus prayed this wasn’t just a grocery delivery. He felt the charms being slowly undone, each layer peeling back. Finally, the door swung open, and the clunk of Moody’s wooden leg on the first stair. 终于，Mad Eye来找他们时，他们已经过了一周的新年。他们立刻闻到了他的气味，坐了起来，专注地盯着门。到那时，他们几乎把食物吃光了，Remus祈祷这不是仅仅一次杂货送货。他感受到护符被慢慢解开，每一层都被剥离。最后，门打开了，Moody木腿在第一阶梯上的碰撞声。

“All right, boys?” He called. “Ready to get back to work?”

* * *

Coming out of that cellar was like coming up for air. Remus felt as though all of his senses had been muted for weeks, and now everything was a riot of colour and noise and scent.

Coming out of that cellar was like coming up for air. Remus felt as though all of his senses had been muted for weeks, and now everything was a riot of colour and noise and scent. 从那个地窖里出来就像是浮出水面一样。Remus感觉到自己的所有感官似乎已经被静音了几个星期，现在一切都是色彩和噪音的狂欢。

Moody wasn’t joking about getting back to work. He took them straight to a new safehouse, where the rest of the order were gathering for a meeting. Remus could smell Sirius as soon as he got in the door, and it made him so giddy with excitement that if he’d had a tail it would have been wagging. He ran his fingers quickly through his greasy hair, and thought about how awful he must look. Moody并不是在开玩笑要回到工作中。他直接带他们去了一个新的安全屋，其他成员正在那里开会。Remus一进门就闻到了Sirius的气味，这让他兴奋得几乎要摇尾巴。他迅速用手指梳理了一下油腻的头发，想着自己看起来该有多糟糕。

Moody led them down a corridor and - rather than going straight through to the kitchen, where they could hear everyone talking - veered into a small utility room, which had a muggle washing machine inside and a big pile of dirty towels in a basket. Moody带他们走过一条走廊，然后——而不是直接去厨房，在那里他们可以听到所有人的谈话——转向一个小储物室，里面有一台麻瓜洗衣机和一个篮子里的大堆脏毛巾。

“I’m bringing you through in a minute,” he explained, “Ms McKinnon’s been harassing me every day for the past two weeks to have you back, and Black’s threatened me with every curse I’ve ever heard of,” he smirked indulgently. “So you’re out now, but I need you both to listen, right?” “我马上带你们进去，”他解释道，“McKinnon小姐这两周每天都在骚扰我，让我把你们带回来，Black还用我听过的每一个咒语威胁我，”他带着宠溺的笑容说道。“所以你们现在可以出来了，但我需要你们都听着，好吗？”

“Right.” They both nodded, blinking. “好的。”他们俩点了点头，眨了眨眼。

“The danger hasn’t passed. You’re still under threat. I can’t have either of you leaving your homes without a disguise. I’d rather you didn’t leave at all.” “危险还没有过去。你们仍然受到威胁。我不能让你们没有伪装地离开你们的家。我宁愿你们根本不要离开。”

“But how can we help the Order if--” “但如果我们不离开，我们怎么帮助 Order 呢——”

“There’s plenty you can do,” Mad-Eye raised a hand of warning, fixing Remus with a hard look, “Research, communications, tracking spells, what have you. Unless you were enjoying your cosy little break in my cellar?” “你们可以做很多事情，”Mad-Eye举起一只警告的手，严厉地看着Remus，“研究、通讯、追踪咒语等等。除非你们喜欢在我的地窖里度过你们舒适的小假期？”

They both shook their heads fiercely. No. Never. 他们俩猛烈摇头。不。绝对不。

“Right then.” Moody nodded, business-like again. “Come on, then,” he pushed the door open and their filed out, following him to the kitchen. It was crowded with people, most of whom Remus knew, and they all turned as soon as the door opened, fifty pairs of eyes, all wide with mistrust and worry. “那么好了。”Moody点了点头，又恢复了商务模式。“来吧，”他推开门，他们跟着他走向厨房。那里挤满了人，大多数Remus都认识，一旦门打开，他们都转过身来，五十双眼睛都充满了不信任和担忧。

“DANNY!” A blonde blur rushed past Moody and Remus and body-slammed Danny, winding him. He chuckled and hugged Marlene back, “All right, sis?” “DANNY！”一个金发的模糊影像从Moody和Remus身边冲过来，撞倒了Danny，让他喘不过气来。他笑了，回抱住Marlene，“怎么样，姐姐？”

“Remus?” Sirius had stood up, and was crossing the room anxiously, climbing over chairs and squeezing past people who had to bend and twist out of the way, snatching back mugs of hot tea. He had to look down as he approached, so he didn’t trip, and his hair fell in front of his face, swaths of black silk. “Remus？”Sirius站起来了，焦急地穿越房间，越过椅子，挤过那些不得不弯腰和扭曲身体让路的人，拿回热茶的杯子。他走近时不得不低头，以免绊倒，头发垂在脸前，黑色丝绸般的头发。

As he reached Remus, who was still standing half in the hallway, Sirius had to raise his arm and sweep his hair back, and Remus swore the room went completely silent for a moment, and the only sound was the frantic thudding of his own heart. He forgot to breathe, and gasped, “Hi.” 当他走到仍然站在半个走廊里的Remus面前时，Sirius不得不抬起手臂把头发扫到一边，Remus发誓房间瞬间完全安静下来，唯一的声音是他自己心跳的急促。他忘记了呼吸，喘息道，“嗨。”

Sirius smiled a little, and stepped forward, a hand on Remus’s shoulder to push him out of the room, into the dark hallway. Away from everyone else, Sirius slid his hand up Remus’s neck, into his hair, and kissed him on the lips - so beautifully. Sirius微微笑了，向前迈了一步，一只手放在Remus的肩膀上，把他推向房间外，进入黑暗的走廊。离开其他人后，Sirius滑动着手抚上Remus的脖颈，进入他的头发中，亲吻了他的嘴唇——如此美丽。

Spring 1981

The honeymoon period after Remus’s hiding lasted well into February. Both of them were so apologetic, and so grateful to be together again, that for a while everything was wonderful - they were like teenagers again. Especially because Remus wasn’t supposed to leave the flat, which meant that there really wasn’t a lot else to do. Remus隐藏后的蜜月期一直持续到2月。两人都非常抱歉，并且非常感激能再次在一起，因此一段时间一切都很美好——他们就像青少年一样。尤其是因为Remus不应该离开公寓，这意味着真的没有很多其他事情可以做。

Sirius popped over to check on James and Lily and the baby every now and then, and he still had missions to go on - but he always rushed back to Remus as soon as he could. They spent days and evenings lounging in bed together, eating beans on toast and smoking and playing records. It was like living on a private island - they’d even had to cut off the floo connection for safety’s sake. Sirius时不时去看James、Lily和宝宝，他仍然有任务要去完成——但他总是尽快回到Remus身边。他们整天整晚一起躺在床上，吃烤豆吐司，抽烟，听唱片。这就像生活在一个私人岛屿上——他们甚至为了安全起见不得不切断了传送门。

Luckily, Remus was allowed to keep the telephone, his lifeline, and the others came over when they could. Mary visited on her way back from work at least twice a week, to avoid her noisy family. 幸运的是，Remus被允许保留电话，这是他的生命线，其他人也会尽可能地过来。Mary至少每周在下班回家的路上来访两次，以避开她吵闹的家人。

“It's bliss, over here,” she smiled, sinking into the couch and closing her eyes. “If you had a telly I’d never leave.” “这里真是太幸福了，”她笑着，沉入沙发，闭上了眼睛。“如果你有电视的话，我会永远留下来。”

“Ha, I’m working on it, trust me.” Remus replied. “Is it really bad at yours? Do you want to stay over a few nights?” “哈，我在想办法，相信我。”Remus回答道。“你那边真的很糟糕吗？你想在这里多待几晚吗？”

“Nah,” she opened her eyes, “I want to be with my family. They keep me normal. It's just… you know, they don’t know anything about the war - I don't want them to know, but… it’s so hard.” “不，”她睁开眼睛说，“我想和家人在一起。他们让我保持正常。只是……你知道，他们对战争一无所知——我不想让他们知道，但……这真的很难。”

“Sorry, love.” Remus said, wistfully. “Want a drink?” “对不起，亲爱的。”Remus惆怅地说，“想喝点酒吗？”

Mary gave him one of her long, gentle looks, tilting her head. “No, Remus,” she touched his knee, “It's never a good idea to drink when you feel like this. It doesn’t make things better, does it?” Mary给了他一个温柔的长时间的目光，倾斜着头。“不，Remus，”她摸了摸他的膝盖，“在这种情况下喝酒从来不是一个好主意。这并不会让事情变得更好，对吗？”

Remus just shrugged. He didn’t see what the big deal was. Mary just smiled again, and took a sip of her tea, and continued as if nothing had happened. Remus只是耸了耸肩。他看不出问题在哪里。Mary又笑了笑，喝了一口茶，然后继续说话，就像什么也没发生过一样。

“Anyway, I can always pop to Darren’s if I need a break from the kids.” “反正，如果我需要休息一下，我可以随时去Darren那里。”

“Darren? That kid you were going out with in fourth year?” “Darren？那个你在四年级时交往的孩子？”

“Well remembered,” she laughed, “Yeah, he still lives across the hall. I go over sometimes, we’re friends.” “记得很清楚，”她笑了，“是的，他现在仍然住在对面。我有时会过去，我们是朋友。”

“Just friends?” Remus raised an eyebrow. Mary looked down, suddenly sad. “只是朋友？”Remus挑了挑眉。Mary低下头，突然显得伤心。

“Yeah. That's all it can be, right now. He's a muggle, I’m in the Order… I’m already putting my family at so much risk, I couldn't bear if…” “是的。现在只能这样。他是个麻瓜，我在Order中……我已经把我的家人置于如此大的危险中，如果……”

She shook her head, her face resolute. “Sorry! I’m supposed to be here keeping you company, not bringing you down!” 她摇了摇头，脸上露出坚定的神情。“对不起！我应该在这里陪伴你，而不是让你沮丧！”

 

She still didn’t want to drink after that, but they had a nice long chat anyway. In hindsight, Remus would be glad that Mary was there that night, and that she stopped him getting drunk. Because that was the night James got hurt. 她之后仍然不想喝酒，但他们还是聊了很久。事后看来，Remus会很高兴Mary那晚在场，并且阻止了他醉酒。因为那晚James受了伤。

 

Chapter 166~170Chapter Summary

166. The War: Autumn 1979 (2018-08-24)
167. The War: Winter 1979 (2018-08-30)
168. The War: Spring & Summer 1980 (2018-09-27)
169. The War: Autumn & Winter 1980 (2018-10-03)
170. The War: Winter 1980 & Spring 1981 (2018-10-07)

我直接硬看，待補

Chapter 171~175Chapter Summary

171. The War: Triage (2018-10-09)
172. The War: Summer 1981 (2018-10-12)
173. The War: Autumn 1981 (2018-10-14)
174. Armistice (2018-10-14)
175. 1982 (2018-10-15)

Chapter 171: The War: TriagePolice and thieves in the streets (oh yeah)

Scaring the nation with their guns and ammunition,

Police and thieves in the street (oh yeah)

Fighting the nation with their guns and ammunition.

 

From genesis to revelation,

The next generation will be, hear me

From genesis to revelation,

The next generation will be, hear me,

 

And all the crowd come in, day by day

And no one stops it in anyway

All the peacemaker, turn war officer

Hear what I say.

 While Mary and Remus sat on the cosy couch in the little Soho flat, curtains drawn over the dark windows, fireplace crackling, Sirius, Lily and James were in mortal peril. 当Mary和Remus坐在小小的Soho公寓里的舒适沙发上，窗帘拉得严严实实，火炉发出噼啪声时，Sirius、Lily和James正处于生死危险之中。

This passed for a normal Friday night, in those days. By now everyone had developed a fatalistic attitude to life, and a kind of gallows humour. “See you, later,” Sirius would say, leaving the house, “If I make it.” 在那段日子里，这算是一个正常的星期五晚上。到现在为止，每个人都对生活抱有一种宿命论的态度，还有一种绞刑架式的幽默感。“再见了，”Sirius会在离开家时说，“如果我活下来。”

“Meet you at home,” James would tell Lily, “If it’s still there!” “在家见，”James会告诉Lily，“如果家还在的话！”

It helped everyone get through it, at the time - after all, if you said the worst thing out loud, it couldn't hurt as much, could it? The thought tortured Remus for a long time after the war was over. 这样帮助了大家度过那段时光——毕竟，如果你把最坏的事说出来，它也不会那么伤人，对吧？这个想法在战争结束后折磨了Remus很久。

They were only supposed to be on a routine patrol - in Diagon Alley, which made Remus feel better because it was so close by. There were three of them, and they would be checking in with a senior Order member at the start and finish, so it should have been business as usual. In fact, Mary was about to leave Remus and go home for the night - when there was a hammering on the door. 他们本来只应该是在例行巡逻——在Diagon Alley，这让Remus感觉好些，因为那儿离得很近。他们三个人，会在开始和结束时向一位高级Order成员报告，所以应该一切照常。实际上，Mary正打算离开Remus，回家过夜——这时门上传来了锤击声。

They both jumped, and Mary let out a strange squeak of terror. Then the door began to open, and they both stood, wands raised, Remus covering as much of Mary as he could. 他们俩都吓了一跳，Mary发出了奇怪的恐惧尖叫。然后门开始打开，他们俩站了起来，举起魔杖，Remus尽可能地遮住Mary。

“Help!” A muffled voice came, and Sirius and Lily pushed their way into the flat, James’s limp form sagging between them, an arm over each of their shoulders. “救命！”一个模糊的声音传来，Sirius和Lily挤进了公寓，James的无力身体垂在他们之间，两人各自搭着他的一只肩膀。

“Christ!” Remus started forward to help, and between them all they got him onto the couch. “What happened?!” “天啊！”Remus向前走去帮助他们，大家一起把James放到沙发上。“发生了什么事？！”

“Remus,” Mary choked, her wand still raised, hand trembling, “The questions…” “Remus，”Mary哽咽着说，魔杖仍然举着，手在颤抖，“问题……”

“Right, fuck, ok, um…” His mind was racing, he couldn’t stop staring at James’s face, pallid and waxy, gleaming with sweat. He looked at Lily, “What did… um.. Who…?” “好的，该死的，呃……”他的脑袋飞快旋转，他无法停止盯着James那苍白蜡黄、汗光闪烁的脸。他看向Lily，“你……呃……谁……？”

“Lily, who was your first kiss?” Mary stepped in, quickly. “Lily，你的第一次吻是谁？”Mary迅速插话道。

“Dirk Cresswell.” Lily said, promptly. Sirius and Remus both gave her a funny look, but there was no time to make a fuss. “Dirk Cresswell。”Lily立即回答道。Sirius和Remus都给了她一个奇怪的眼神，但没时间去制造麻烦了。

“Sirius,” Mary said, redirecting her wand, “Same question.” “Sirius，”Mary说，重新调整了她的魔杖，“同样的问题。”

“I don't know!” Sirius said, exasperated, pulling away James’s robes - there wasn’t any blood, but James’s eyes were closed, the lids deep purple, “One of you go and get McKinnon!” “我不知道！”Sirius恼怒地说，拉开James的袍子——没有血迹，但James的眼睛闭着，眼睑呈深紫色，“你们中的一个去找McKinnon！”

“What do you mean you don’t know?!” Mary rounded on him, “Answer the bloody question, Black!” “你什么意思不知道？！”Mary对他大吼，“回答该死的问题，Black！”

“I can’t, I really don’t know! It was some muggle girl in a cinema! Moony, tell her!” “我不能，我真的不知道！是一个麻瓜女孩在电影院里！Moony，告诉她！”

“He’s telling the truth,” Remus said, his throat dry, “He is, we got into a fight over it. I punched him.” “他说的是真的，”Remus喉咙干涩地说，“他说的是真的，我们为此打了起来。我打了他。”

“Punched you back,” Sirius muttered, scanning James with his wand. “Get Marlene?! Please!” “打回你了，”Sirius嘟囔着，用魔杖扫描James。“去找Marlene？！拜托！”

“I’ll do it,” Mary said, backing out of the room, quickly. The door slammed and they heard a CRACK as she disapparated from the landing. “我来做，”Mary说，快速退回房间外。门猛地关上，他们听到了一声啪嗒，她从楼梯间消失了。

Lily came hurrying in from the bathroom, clutching a damp flannel. She knelt beside James and pressed it to his forehead, Lily从浴室急匆匆地跑进来，捏着一块湿润的毛巾。她跪在James旁边，把毛巾贴在他的额头上，

“Don’t you dare, Potter,” she whispered feverishly into his ear, “Don’t you bloody dare…” “不要这样，Potter，”她急切地在他耳边低语，“你绝对不要这样……”

“What happened?” Remus grabbed Sirius’s shoulder, “An attack?” “发生了什么？”Remus抓住Sirius的肩膀，“是袭击吗？”

“Yeah,” Sirius nodded, sweating and shaking. Remus wished he would sit down, but he knew there was no point saying so, “Ambush. Six death eaters. Someone must have known we’d be there, someone must have told…” “是的，”Sirius点头，满头大汗，浑身发抖。Remus希望他能坐下来，但他知道说也没用，“埋伏。六个食死徒。一定有人知道我们会在那里，一定有人告诉了他们……”

“Sirius!” Lily shrieked, “Look!” “Sirius！”Lily尖叫道，“看！”

She had loosened James’s shirt, and revealed long green coloured streaks, like tree branches stretching out beneath his skin. His breathing was shallow. 她松开了James的衬衫，露出了长长的绿色条纹，就像树枝伸展在他皮肤下。他的呼吸很浅。

“Oh fuck,” Sirius crumbled, falling to his knees beside Lily, “Did you hear what the curse was?” “哦，天呐，”Sirius崩溃了，跪在Lily旁边，“你听到这个诅咒是什么了吗？”

Lily shook her head, tears streaking down her face. James’s breathing grew laboured, rasping in his throat, and he was limp as a rag doll. Lily摇摇头，眼泪顺着脸颊流下。James的呼吸变得困难，喉咙里发出喘息声，他的身体像一只破布娃娃一样软绵绵的。

Remus’s heart began to rattle in his chest, his vision swam and his knees went weak. Not James! He was the very best of them. He was the one who had to make it, no matter what. How could there be a world without James Potter? You might as well picture a world without kindness, or laughter, or mischief. Remus的心开始在胸口剧烈地跳动，他的视线模糊，双腿也变得无力。不是James！他是他们中最优秀的。他是必须活下来的，无论如何。世界怎么能没有James Potter？你不如想象一个没有善良、笑声或顽皮的世界。

“Firewhisky.” Remus said, suddenly, “I’ve got a bottle somewhere.” “火威士忌。”Remus突然说道，“我这里有一瓶。”

“Not now, Moony!” Sirius snapped, his face jagged as a demon’s. Remus recoiled, hurt, “I meant for Prongs! It might help the shock.” “现在别说了，Moony！”Sirius厉声道，他的脸如恶魔般扭曲。Remus后退，受了伤，“我是给Prongs准备的！可能会对冲击有帮助。”

“Try it!” Lily wailed, lifting the cold flannel on James’s forehead to feel his skin. Remus could tell from a metre away that he had a temperature. “Try anything!” “试试！”Lily悲声道，抬起在James额头上的冰冷毛巾去触摸他的皮肤。Remus从一米外就能看出他发烧了。“试试任何东西！”

Remus ran, and while he was in the kitchen looking for a wooden spoon (he’d heard that metal was bad for someone having a fit - they could hurt their teeth. James wasn’t seizing, but better to be safe), Mary returned with Marlene. The whole atmosphere changed. Remus跑了出去，同时在厨房寻找一个木勺（他听说金属对发作中的人不好——他们可能会伤到牙齿。James虽然没有抽搐，但还是小心为好），Mary带着Marlene回来了。整个气氛发生了变化。

“Out of my way, please!” Marlene’s crystal clear voice rang out, its inherent common sense authority restoring order at once. “请让开！”Marlene清晰的声音响起，她天生的常识权威立刻恢复了秩序。

Relieved, Remus came through clutching the firewhisky. Lily was crying harder now, standing back to let Marlene work. Sirius had his arms around her, eyes never leaving James’s face, which was starting to turn a deathly shade of grey. 松了口气的Remus拿着火威士忌走了进来。Lily现在哭得更厉害了，站在一旁让Marlene工作。Sirius把手臂搂住她，眼睛没有离开James的脸，而James的脸色开始变得死灰色。

“Marls,” Sirius said urgently, “Please… please…” “Marls，”Sirius急切地说，“拜托……拜托……”

“I’m doing my best, Black!” Marlene barked, turning to open her bag. Remus caught the flushed look of terror in her face, the shimmer of tears in her eyes. This was bad. “我在尽力，Black！”Marlene大声道，转身打开她的包。Remus看见她脸上泛红的恐惧表情，眼中闪烁的泪光。这情况很糟糕。

It was as if they were all holding their breath. Mary was still in her coat, pressed against the door. 仿佛大家都在屏息以待。Mary仍然穿着外套，靠在门上。

“Is there someone else I can get?” She asked, her voice hoarse. “Tell me, I’ll go anywhere.” “还有其他人我可以去找吗？”她问，声音沙哑。“告诉我，我会去任何地方。”

“I don't know,” Marlene said trembling. “There's no one safe at St Mungo’s, and I don’t know if anyone else in the Order is… Emmeline, maybe, but she's in Hungary or somewhere…” “我不知道，”Marlene颤抖着说。“St Mungo’s没有安全的人，我不知道Order里还有没有其他人……也许Emmeline，但她在匈牙利或者其他地方……”

“You can do it though, Marls?” Lily said, desperately, “You can heal him?”

“I don’t know, I… What was the curse?”

“We don’t know,” Sirius said, “It was wordless.”

“What about a bezoar?” Mary asked.

“That’s for poison,” Sirius shot back. “He was cursed.”

“Yeah, but still, isn’t it worth a try?”

“I don’t have one anyway!” Marlene let out a sob. She was really crying, now, her hands hovering over James’s body, shaking.

His breathing was coming slower and slower, Remus could still hear his heart beating, but that was getting weaker; a long syrupy ‘thwump’. They had to do something.

“Can you describe the curse?” He asked, brain ticking.

“It was wordless!” Sirius repeated, impatiently.

“No, but could you describe it?” Remus persisted, firmly. “A light? Colour? A smell?”

“I’m not like you, Remus, I’m not…” Sirius ran his fingers through his hair, frowning,

“Blue.” Lily said, sniffing, “There was a blue light, wasn’t there Sirius?”

“Yeah!” He nodded, lighting up, “It was blue, and kind of… Jagged? Short, like a dart.”它是藍色的，有點……鋸齒狀？很短，就像飛鏢一樣。

“Yes,” Lily wiped her eyes, looking at Remus as if he was her saviour, “It was like arrows being fired at us; blue arrows.”「是的，」莉莉擦了擦眼睛，看著萊姆斯，彷彿他是她的救世主，「就像箭射向我們；藍色箭頭。

“Ok,” Remus nodded, as if he knew exactly what he was doing. He had never heard of a curse that did that. “Ok, so… blue… er…”

“Remus!” Mary cried, “Blue, isn’t that explosive charms?”

“Yeah,” he jumped on it, eagerly, then frowned, “But he hasn’t…” He looked down at James. He was completely intact - just incredibly weak.

“Maybe they combined it with something?” Lily said, straightening up, folding her arms across her body and putting on her war face. “Magical alchemy, you boys do that all the time.”“也許他們把它與某些東西結合起來了？”莉莉站起身來，雙臂抱在身上，擺出一副戰爭表情。 “魔法煉金術，你們這些小伙子經常這麼做。”

“Or it could have been a mistake,” Sirius said, leaning in, his eyes finally focussing properly, “That happens all the time too.”

“或者這可能是個錯誤，”天狼星傾身說道，他的眼睛終於正確地聚焦了，“這種事也經常發生。”

“Yeah!” Remus agreed, “The death eater might have just really wanted to use a lot of force, that can come out explosive sometimes… oh! Did you have shield charms up?”

“We did,” Lily nodded, the lines in her forehead deepening, “But James - his had just dropped, just for a split second, he was trying to…” she looked down. “我们做了，”Lily点头，她额头上的皱纹加深，“但是James——他的心跳刚刚下降了，只是一瞬间，他正在尝试……”她低下头。

“He was trying to protect me.” Sirius said, very low. “Last thing he did was disarm that fucking Crouch kid, he was about to get me with an unforgivable.” “他是在试图保护我。”Sirius低声说，“他做的最后一件事就是解除那个该死的Crouch小子的武装，他正要用一个不可饶恕的咒语对付我。”

Remus blinked with shock, and then shoved that feeling down, down as far as it would go, because he needed to deal with James now. Remus震惊地眨了眨眼，然后把那种感觉压下去，尽可能地往下压，因为他现在需要处理James的情况。

“Ok,” he swallowed. “Ok, so what if whoever hit James was just a bit slow? Tried to get through the shield charm just the second it went down.” “好的，”他吞了口水。“好的，那如果攻击James的人只是有点慢呢？试图在护盾咒语刚刚消失的那一刻通过。”

“That makes sense,” Lily said, her face bright with tears and sweat and hope, “That accounts for the short bursts!” “这有道理，”Lily说，她的脸上满是泪水、汗水和希望，“这解释了短时间的冲击！”

“Ok, great!” Remus looked down at Marlene, who was staring at him eyes as big as saucers. “好的，太好了！”Remus低头看着Marlene，她的眼睛像碟子一样睁大。

“What do I do, Remus?” She said, her voice very small - as if they were back in the library at Hogwarts and she didn’t understand a transfiguration principle. “我该怎么办，Remus？”她说，声音非常小——就像他们回到霍格沃茨的图书馆，她不明白变形学的原理一样。

“I… how would that hit him?” Remus asked, agitated - he didn’t know what to do! She was the one with two years training as a Healer! “What would it do?! Think!” “我……那会怎么击中他？”Remus焦急地问——他不知道该怎么办！她可是接受了两年的治疗师培训！“那会有什么效果？！想想！”

“I’m trying!” Marlene said, still shaking. “我在尝试！”Marlene说，仍然在颤抖。

Remus wanted to take her by the shoulders and really shake her - she had to get herself together! This was James! He had a family, and a baby, and Sirius needed him, and Remus needed him, they all did! Marlene just kept staring at them all, frozen. Remus想抓住她的肩膀狠狠地摇晃她——她必须振作起来！这是James！他有一个家庭，一个宝宝，Sirius需要他，Remus需要他，他们都需要！Marlene只是呆呆地看着他们，僵住了。

“Marls,” Mary came over, quickly, squatting down next to her friend. She did take Marlene by the shoulders - but she didn’t shake her. She hugged her, and stroked her hair. “Marls，”Mary迅速走过来，蹲在她的朋友旁边。她确实抓住了Marlene的肩膀——但没有摇晃她。她拥抱了她，抚摸着她的头发。“亲爱的，”她在寂静的房间里低语，“你可以做到的。你是我认识的最聪明的人。如果有人知道该怎么做，那就是你。好吗？”

Marlene shut her eyes for a moment, and breathed in, deeply. She opened them and nodded, “Right.” She said, turning back to James. “It would have been hard, right in the chest… it would have... yes! Yes, it does make sense!” Marlene闭上眼睛，深吸一口气。她睁开眼睛点了点头，“对。”她说，转回去看James。“那会很痛，对着胸口……那会……是的！是的，这有道理！”

She began to mutter to herself, and then moved her wand, a warm, soft lilac glow emanating from the point, pooling over James’ prone body, sinking in slowly, like foam. 她开始自言自语，然后移动她的魔杖，点上散发出温暖柔和的紫丁香色光芒，汇集在James的身体上，缓慢地渗透进去，就像泡沫一样。

They all held their breath once more, while Marlene worked. Sirius was holding Lily’s hand, and Remus could see her knuckles turn white as she gripped him back. Mary stayed by Marlene’s side, kneeling on the rug beside the couch, her head bent as if praying. 大家再次屏住呼吸，等待Marlene的治疗。Sirius握着Lily的手，Remus看到她的指关节因为紧握而变白。Mary则留在Marlene身边，跪在沙发旁的地毯上，头低下，仿佛在祈祷。

Remus just clutched his bottle of whisky and felt as though the world was falling out from under him. There was nothing to do but watch and wait, listen to Marlene’s steady muttering, and try to keep perspective. Remus只是紧握着他的威士忌瓶，感觉世界仿佛在他脚下崩溃。他无事可做，只能等待，看着Marlene稳定的低语，并试图保持清醒。

The magic she was using had a sweet, fresh scent, like cut grass, or budding leaves. The smell of springtime, of regeneration. That was a good sign, Remus thought. He wished he had learnt more from the werewolves - their healing techniques had been flawless. But maybe that only worked on other werewolves? 她使用的魔法有一种甜美清新的气味，像割草或发芽的叶子。春天的气息，重生的气息。这是个好兆头，Remus想。他希望自己从狼人那里学到更多——他们的治疗技巧无可挑剔。但也许那只对其他狼人有效？

James’s breathing was getting steadier, his heart rate a bit stronger. Woosh - woosh - woosh - Remus could hear his blood pumping faster already. James的呼吸变得更加稳定，心跳也强了些。哗——哗——哗——Remus已经能听到他的血液在加速流动。

“It’s working!” He said, going a bit closer to hear better. “You’re doing it, Marlene!” “有效了！”他说，走近一点以便更好地听到。“你做到了，Marlene！”

“Oh thank you,” Lily said, covering her eyes with her hands, “Thank you, thank you…” “哦，谢谢你，”Lily说，双手捂住眼睛，“谢谢，谢谢……”

Marlene stopped muttering and felt James’s pulse. She sighed with relief and nodded, “Stable.” She said. Then, looking up, “Might as well give him a bit of that whisky, Remus.” Marlene停止了低语，感受James的脉搏。她松了口气，点了点头，“稳定了。”她说。然后，看向Remus，“不妨给他点威士忌。”

After they’d got a bit of that down him, Marlene gave James a strengthening potion. He was getting a bit of colour back, by then, and his chest was rising and falling evenly. They were out of the woods. Still, Marlene didn’t want him moved, not until he’d regained consciousness. 在他们给James喂了一点威士忌之后，Marlene给他喝了强身药水。他的脸色恢复了一些，他的胸部均匀地起伏着。他们度过了难关。不过，Marlene还是不想让他移动，直到他恢复意识。

“He can stay here,” Remus said, “Of course he can. It’s safe, isn’t it, Padfoot?”

Sirius was watching Remus, across the room. He was thinking, Remus could tell - he had his problem-face on. For some reason, it made Remus go cold. “Padfoot?”

“Yeah…” Sirius said, slowly, “But we thought Diagon Alley was safe enough.”

“Well, he’s here now,” Lily said, getting up from James’s side. “He’s staying. I have to go home - Peter’s looking after Harry, he must be so worried! I’ll be right back…”

“Someone should go and get Dumbledore.” Sirius said, abruptly.

“What for?” Mary asked.

“Just… he ought to know we were attacked. He ought to know somebody told the death eaters where we’d be.”

“Sirius!” Mary stared at him, her mouth open, “Are you saying… someone in the Order?!”

Sirius nodded. He didn’t look at Remus again.

“I’ll go!” Remus offered.

“No!” Sirius said. “You can’t, you… you need to stay here. It’s not safe for werewolves.”

“It doesn’t seem to be safe for anyone!” Marlene retorted, standing up, wiping her forehead. “You go, Sirius, since it’s so important. Remus, Mary and I can stay and look after James.”

Sirius looked at James, and then at Remus - not his face, though, just his general direction.不過不是他的臉，只是他大致的方向。

“Ok,” he said. “I’ll be really quick.” And headed out the door.

The three women looked at Remus awkwardly. Lily came over to squeeze his shoulder, and said gently,

“He’s just upset, love. He blames himself for what happened - James was trying to save him when he got hit. Don’t take it personally, eh?”

“I know,” Remus raised his chin, manfully, squashing down all of the bitter, rotten emotions,，壓制住所有苦澀、腐爛的情緒 “It’s fine. We’re all in shock. It’s fine.”

“I’ve got to go,” Lily said again, “Harry.”

“I’ll come with you,” Mary said, “We should go everywhere in pairs. That’s what Moody would say.”

They both left, and Remus tried not to think about the fact that Sirius had vanished into the night completely alone.

Marlene had collected herself by now, and was bustling about making James comfortable,

“I should have told Lily to bring him some pyjamas… maybe she will anyway,” she said, “Have you got a pillow and some blankets for him, Remus?”

“Yeah, ‘course.” Remus nodded, hurrying to the bedroom, coming back with five blankets and two pillows (they were the only pillows they had, actually; he’d taken them right off the bed).

Marlene was checking James’s pulse again when he came back.

“Is he ok?!”

“Yes,” Marlene nodded, “Still steady. I was just checking…”

They made up a bed on the couch around him. Remus took his shoes off, but they decided to wait until Lily was back to undress him. He looked as though he was just sleeping. Remus smiled,

“I’ve never heard James be so quiet for so long,” he commented, hoping to lighten the mood a bit.

“Ha.” Marlene said, then burst into tears again.

“Hey hey hey!” Remus pulled her to him, “It’s over now! Please don’t cry…”

“I’m - sorry - I’m - just - so - scared -” Marlene sobbed, choking on every breath, “I let - everyone - down!”

“No you didn’t!” Remus felt horribly guilt for shouting at her, “You did an amazing job!”

“Only - because - you lot - helped…”

“Well, obviously,” he kissed the top of her head, “That’s what friends are for.”

* * *

Lily and Mary returned first. Lily cradling Harry in her arms - who was sleeping, mercifully. She went straight to James’s side once more.

“I brought some of Effie’s potions,” She said, harried, “Have a look, Marlene, there might be something useful…” “我带了一些Effie的药水，”她说，显得很忙乱，“看看，Marlene，可能会有用的东西……”

“I don’t want to dose him up too much,” Marlene said, carefully. “Rest and observation is the best thing now, I promise.” She had washed her face and had a nip of whisky, and was considerably calmer now. “我不想给他过多的药，”Marlene说，谨慎地，“现在最好是休息和观察，我保证。”她洗了把脸，喝了一点威士忌，现在已经冷静多了。

“Did you see Wormtail?” Remus asked. “你见到Wormtail了吗？”Remus问。

“Yeah,” Mary said, taking Harry from Lily, so that she could focus on James. “He was really upset - he wanted to go home and check on his mum. Can’t blame him.” “见到了，”Mary说，把Harry从Lily手中接过来，好让她能专注于James。“他真的很伤心——他想回家看看他妈妈。不能怪他。”

“No, of course.” Remus agreed. He’d want his mother, too, if he had one. “当然。”Remus同意了。如果他有妈妈的话，他也会想她的。

He made a strong pot of tea, and everyone took a cup, but nobody drank any. Marlene and Lily poured over James , undressing him and tucking him into bed, plumping up his pillow, while Mary gently rocked Harry in her arms. Remus watched the three of them - like saintly maidens in a church altarpiece - and felt completely useless. 他煮了一壶浓茶，大家都拿了一杯，但没有人喝。Marlene和Lily忙着照顾James，脱下他的衣服，把他安顿到床上，拍松他的枕头，而Mary则温柔地摇着Harry。Remus看着他们三个——像教堂祭坛上的圣女一样——感到自己完全无用。

“Could we move him to the bed?” He said, annoyed he’d only just thought of it, “Then you can sleep next to him, Lily.” “我们可以把他搬到床上去吗？”他说，烦恼自己刚刚才想到，“那样你就可以在他旁边睡了，Lily。”

“Better not for now,” Marlene advised. “现在最好不要，”Marlene建议。

“Right, then I’ll make you up a bed here…” he tried to remember some transfiguration charms - though conjuring furniture was usually something Sirius was better at. “好的，那我会在这里为你准备一张床……”他试图记起一些变形咒语——尽管变出家具通常是Sirius更擅长的事。

“Don’t worry, Remus, I’m not going to sleep.” Lily smiled, tiredly. “别担心，Remus，我不会去睡觉。”Lily疲惫地笑了。

“I don't think any of us will.” Mary said. “I phoned mum. All right if I stay here too, love?” “我想我们谁都不会。”Mary说，“我打电话给妈妈了。我能在这里待吗，亲爱的？”

“Of course.” He nodded. And of course Marlene wouldn’t be going anywhere until she was certain James was going to make a full recovery. “当然。”他点头。同样，Marlene也不会离开，直到她确定James会完全康复。

In the end, they agreed they’d sleep in shifts, and take the bed two at a time. None of them wanted to go first, of course, and they all settled in for a very long night. Remus leaned against the mantlepiece, listening to James’s heart beating across the room. He kept picturing his friend suddenly sitting up, grinning at them all; Alright you lot? Bloody hell, who died?! 最终，他们同意轮流休息，床上两个人一组。自然，没有人愿意第一个去睡，大家都准备迎接一个漫长的夜晚。Remus靠在壁炉架上，听着房间另一边James的心跳。他不断幻想他的朋友突然坐起来，朝他们所有人微笑；“你们好？该死的，谁死了？！”

Finally, Sirius returned with Dumbledore, and any peace they had managed to reclaim was shattered. 最终，Sirius带着Dumbledore回来了，他们好不容易恢复的平静被打破了。

“I need to know everything.” The old headmaster said, his face severe, eyes burning like the blue centre of a flame. “我需要知道一切。”老校长说，他的脸色严峻，眼睛像火焰的蓝色中心一样燃烧。

Sirius and Lily began talking. They explained how everything had been routine - standard; boring, if anything. They’d done a sweep of Diagon Alley, even Knockturn Alley, and found everything perfectly safe and secure. Sirius和Lily开始讲述。他们解释了事情的经过——一切都是例行公事——标准的；如果有的话，还很无聊。他们对对角巷，甚至诺克特恩小巷做了一次巡视，发现一切安全无忧。

Then they’d left, via the Leaky Cauldron exit, and had decided to walk to the check-in point, as it was a nice evening, and not too far. They were supposed to meet Dorcas Meadowes in a muggle café on Tottenham Court Road - but they’d been ambushed before reaching it. 然后他们从破釜酒吧的出口离开，决定步行去登记点，因为那是个好晚上，离得也不远。他们原本应该在托特纳姆法院路上的一家麻瓜咖啡馆见到Dorcas Meadowes——但他们在到达之前就遭到了伏击。

“You couldn’t have been followed?” Dumbledore asked, looking at them both. They shook their heads. “你们不可能被跟踪了吗？”Dumbledore问，盯着他们俩。他们摇了摇头。

“We made sure,” Lily said. “They weren’t behind us, they were ahead - they were waiting for us.” “我们确保了，”Lily说，“他们不在我们身后，他们在前面——他们在等我们。”

“Shit, someone ought to tell Dorcas…” Sirius said, suddenly, “After James got… we had to get out fast, there wasn’t time.” “该死，应该有人告诉Dorcas……”Sirius突然说，“在James……我们得快点离开，没有时间了。”

“It would not have mattered,” Dumbledore waved a hand, “Dorcas Meadowes is dead.” “没关系，”Dumbledore挥了挥手，“Dorcas Meadowes已经死了。”

The room fell silent. Harry woke up and started to cry. Lily took him from Mary at once, clutching her son close to her chest. 房间陷入了沉默。Harry醒来开始哭泣。Lily立刻接过他，把儿子紧紧抱在胸前。

Sirius spoke first. Sirius第一个开口了。

“I'm right, aren't I?” He looked Dumbledore directly in the face, “There’s a spy in the Order.” “我没错，对吧？”他直接看着Dumbledore，“在组织里有间谍。”

 

Chapter 172: The War: Summer 1981 

Once I had a love and it was a gas,

Soon turned out; had a heart of glass.

Seemed like the real thing, only to find,

Much of mistrust, love's gone behind.

 

Once I had a love and it was divine,

Soon found out I was losin' my mind

It seemed like the real thing but I was so blind,

Much of mistrust, love's gone behind.

 

James recovered - slowly. He was moved back to the Potter house the next day (waking up groggy, unable to say very much, quickly falling back to sleep), but Dumbledore declared this a temporary solution. He told Lily to prepare to leave at a moment’s notice. James逐渐恢复了。第二天，他被送回了波特家（醒来时有些迷糊，说不了多少话，很快又睡着了），但邓布利多宣布这只是暂时的解决方案。他告诉Lily随时准备离开。

After months of being regarded as junior members of the Order, the marauders and their friends suddenly had all eyes on them. 经过几个月被视为组织的初级成员，夺命狼人和他们的朋友们突然引起了所有人的关注。

At the next Order meeting, which James insisted on attending despite his weakened state, there were definitely whispers. 在下一次组织会议上，尽管James身体虚弱坚持参加，肯定有窃窃私语。

Seven kids - three of them wealthy heirs to pureblood houses, two muggle born, a werewolf, a novice Healer - what made them so special? Could they be trusted? They had survived the war so far, against all the odds. Were they just lucky, or was there something more to it? Who were these kids, who had escaped six death eaters and somehow reversed an almost incomprehensible curse? 七个孩子——其中三个是纯血家庭的富有继承人，两位麻瓜出生，一个狼人，一名新手治疗师——他们有什么特别之处？他们值得信任吗？他们在各种逆境中幸存下来，至今幸免于难。他们只是运气好，还是有什么更多的原因？这些孩子是谁，竟能从六个食死徒手中逃脱，并且以某种方式逆转了几乎难以理解的诅咒？

They had gathered in a small cottage, somewhere in the Peak District. It was a small living room, but the Order was small by then. 他们聚集在一个位于峰区的小别墅里。那是一个小客厅，但到那时组织已经很小了。

At the end of the regular meeting - which had really become more of a remembrance service for people they’d lost since the last time they’d met - Dumbledore asked Lily and James to stay behind while everyone else headed home. In turn, James asked Remus, Sirius and Peter to stay. 在例行会议结束时——实际上已经更像是一个悼念仪式，缅怀自上次见面以来失去的人——邓布利多要求Lily和James留下来，而其他人则回家了。接着，James请求Remus、Sirius和Peter留下。

“Are you sure?” Sirius whispered, urgently, “After everything that’s happened…?” “你确定吗？”Sirius急切地低声问，“在发生了一切之后……”

“--After everything that’s happened I want my best friends nearby.” James replied. Remus felt a swell of pride at that - to James, good sportsmanship extended to every element of his life. To mistrust the people he loved would be highly dishonourable. “——在发生了一切之后，我希望我的最好的朋友就在身边。”James回答。Remus对此感到一阵自豪——对James来说，良好的运动精神延伸到他生活中的每一个方面。不信任他爱的人是极其不光彩的。

Sirius folded his arms, but didn’t argue. Sirius交叉着双臂，但没有争论。

James sat in a chintz armchair, his back straight, his face set. He looked perfectly healthy, unless you really knew him. His cheeks were more hollow, his skin paler, and - though everyone was pretending they hadn’t noticed - his jet black hair now had a few threads of grey. Lily had brought a blanket to lay over his lap, but he kept pushing it off, irritably. James坐在一把花呢扶手椅上，背部挺直，脸色凝重。他看起来完全健康，除非你真的了解他。他的脸颊更加凹陷，皮肤苍白——尽管每个人都装作没注意到——他的黑发中现在有了几缕灰色。Lily带来了一条毯子放在他的腿上，但他不断地不耐烦地推开它。

“I’m fine,” he muttered under his breath. “Leave me be!” “我没事，”他低声嘟囔，“别打扰我！”

“There’s no need to be like that!” Lily hissed back. She was looking a lot paler, too, her tired face lined with worry. Remus had never seen Lily and James snap at each other before. It felt horrible. “没有必要这样！”Lily咬牙切齿地回答。她看起来也苍白许多，疲惫的脸上布满了担忧。Remus从未见过Lily和James如此争吵，感觉很糟糕。

Harry was fussing, flailing his arms and making a face. Lily was taking no chances now - they went everywhere as a family, or nowhere at all. Harry在烦躁，挥舞着手臂，做出各种表情。Lily现在不敢冒险——他们要么全家一起去哪里，要么干脆不去。

“Shh,” she jiggled him on her hip, “Quiet now, Mummy and Daddy are busy...” “嘘，”她在臀部晃动他，“安静点，妈妈和爸爸在忙……”

“Give him here,” Sirius held out his arms, “We’ll have a little play, won’t we Harry?” He lifted the little boy up, and Harry squirmed and giggled delightedly. “把他给我，”Sirius伸出双臂，“我们来玩一会儿，好吗，Harry？”他抱起小男孩，Harry愉快地扭动着身子，咯咯笑个不停。

He wasn’t saying many words yet - ‘Da-da’, ‘Ma-ma’, ‘No!’ and, for some reason, ‘bike!’ were about the extent of it. But he knew his godfather. Remus wondered if it was the smell of old leather. His own experiences with Harry were hit and miss. They got on ok until the kid started crying - and Remus was no good at pretend play, like Sirius was. 他还不会说太多话——‘Da-da’，‘Ma-ma’，‘No!’以及奇怪的‘bike!’大概就是他能说的范围。但他认识他的教父。Remus想知道这是否是旧皮革的味道。他自己与Harry的经历有时好有时坏。他们相处得还不错，直到小孩开始哭泣——而Remus不像Sirius那样擅长假装游戏。

The pair settled down on the living room floor, Sirius with his legs splayed out, Harry between them. Sirius pulled a little toy train out of one of his jacket pockets, and Harry began pushing it across the bumpy rug, burbling happily to himself. Sirius beamed at him. He was so good with children. Remus felt a weird sense of dissonance - did Sirius want kids of his own, one day? They’d never discussed it, and Remus had never had the slightest interest. He didn’t feel qualified to be a parent, and he wasn’t sure he ever would. 他们俩在客厅地板上坐下，Sirius双腿张开，Harry在他们之间。Sirius从他的夹克口袋里拿出一个小火车，Harry开始在凹凸不平的地毯上推着火车，开心地咕哝着。Sirius对他笑容满面。他对孩子们非常好。Remus感到一种奇怪的失调感——Sirius将来是否想要自己的孩子？他们从未讨论过这个问题，Remus也从未对此有过丝毫兴趣。他觉得自己不适合做父母，而且不确定自己是否会适合。

Maybe it was that, then. Maybe that was why Sirius was acting so strangely? 也许就是这样。也许这就是Sirius表现得如此奇怪的原因？

Remus’s private worries were interrupted then, by Dumbledore, who cleared his throat, commanding everyone’s attention. Remus的私人担忧被打断了，邓布利多清了清喉咙，引起了大家的注意。

“We have reason to believe,” he said, quite calmly, “That Voldemort’s focus has changed.” “我们有理由相信，”他说，声音非常平静，“伏地魔的注意力发生了变化。”

Everyone looked up, even Sirius. 大家都抬起头来，甚至Sirius也如此。

“We’ve received some information that the Dark Lord has become aware of a prophecy that was made early last year, which seemed to refer directly to him.” “我们收到了一些信息，黑魔王已经知道了去年年初做出的一个预言，这个预言似乎直接提到了他。”

“A prophecy?” Peter leaned forward, “What prophecy? What did it say?” “一个预言？”Peter前倾着身子，“什么预言？说了什么？”

“It is better that we share only the most pertinent details,” Dumbledore said sharply, “Particularly in mixed company.” “最好只分享最相关的细节，”邓布利多尖锐地说，“尤其是在混合人员中。”

Everyone looked around the room. Remus felt a bit queasy - he did not consider the people congregated to be ‘mixed company’. They were his friends; his comrades, and the people he trusted with his life. He tried to catch Sirius’s eye, hoping for some reassurance, but Sirius quickly looked away. 大家在房间里环顾四周。Remus感到有些恶心——他不认为聚集在一起的人是“混合人员”。他们是他的朋友；他的战友，是他把性命托付给的那些人。他试图与Sirius对视，希望得到一些安慰，但Sirius迅速转过了脸。

“So he’s changed his focus,” James said, breaking the discomforting quiet, “What does he want now?” “所以他的注意力发生了变化，”James打破了令人不安的沉默，“他现在想要什么？”

“In short, Mr Potter,” Dumbledore said, directly, “He wants you. Or rather, your son.” “简而言之，Potter先生，”邓布利多直接说，“他想要你。或者说，你的儿子。”

Lily let out a horrible gasp, her hand flying to her mouth. James gripped the arms of his chair. Peter had an odd sort of nervous spasm. Sirius gathered Harry up and stood at once, “ What?! ” Lily发出一声可怕的喘息声，手飞快地捂住了嘴巴。James紧握着椅子的扶手。Peter出现了一种奇怪的神经性抽搐。Sirius立刻抱起Harry站了起来，“什么？！”

“I am sorry,” Dumbledore said, steadily, “But I have it on very good authority--” “对不起，”邓布利多稳重地说，“但我有非常可靠的消息——”

“ Who’s authority?” Lily asked, sounding strangled. “谁的权威？”Lily问，声音听起来很窒息。

“That I cannot say. I will not place anyone else in danger.” “这个我不能说。我不想让其他人处于危险之中。”

“There’s a spy, then,” Peter said, wringing his hands anxiously, “On their side, I mean?” “那就是说，组织里有间谍，”Peter焦急地搓着手，“在他们那边，我是说？”

“I cannot say.” Dumbledore repeated. “我不能说。”邓布利多重复道。

“Well you’d better say something useful!” James returned, almost shouting, “What do you mean my son?! How can Voldemort even know about Harry?!” “那你最好说点有用的！”James几乎在喊，“你说我的儿子是什么意思？！伏地魔怎么可能知道Harry？”

“We can’t trust anybody.” Sirius said, quietly. “我们不能相信任何人。”Sirius安静地说。

James turned to look at him, a look of pure disbelief. Inwardly Remus was relieved. James trusted his friends - of course he did. Sirius was being paranoid. James转向看着他，脸上写满了纯粹的不相信。内心深处，Remus感到松了一口气。James信任他的朋友——当然，他信任他们。Sirius正变得多疑。

“But why Harry?!” Lily asked, shrilly. “但为什么是Harry？！”Lily尖声问道。

“Voldemort believes that Harry will one day grow up to defeat him.” “伏地魔相信Harry有一天会长大并打败他。”

“Is that what the prophecy said?” “这就是预言所说的？”

Dumbledore inclined his head slightly, as if considering this. “这是伏地魔的信念。”他说，最后说道：“而这就等于预言的内容。”

“You’ll have to hide,” Sirius said, talking directly to James now,“All three of you. There have to be more charms - stronger magic we haven’t tried yet - we’ll send you to bloody Timbuktu if we have to!” “你们必须藏起来，”Sirius直接对James说道，“你们三个。必须有更多的保护咒语——更强的魔法我们还没试过——如果需要的话，我们会把你们送到他妈的Tim-buktu！”

“Padfoot,” James said, raising a hand, “Calm down.” “Padfoot，”James举起手，“冷静点。”

“I will not!” Sirius shouted, red in the face. For a weird split-second, Remus didn’t recognise him at all. “我不会冷静！”Sirius大声喊道，脸色通红。在那一瞬间，Remus甚至完全不认识他。

Harry started crying, reaching for his mother. Lily took him and cuddled him close, kissing his fine black hair and whispering soothing nonsense. Harry开始哭泣，伸手向母亲。Lily接过他，紧紧抱着他，亲吻他那柔软的黑发，低声安抚着他。

“Sirius is right,” Dumbledore said, still infuriatingly calm, “You will have to hide. Plans are already in motion.” “Sirius说得对，”邓布利多仍然愤人不已地冷静地说，“你们必须藏起来。计划已经在进行中了。”

“How soon can we go?” James asked. “Today?”

“Soon.” Dumbledore said. “I will come for you.”

“Ok.” James nodded. “Ok. Right. Good.”

“You will all remain vigilant, I trust,” Dumbledore continued, beginning his closing address. He looked at each of them, as if to impress the gravity of the situation. When he met Remus’s eyes, Remus made sure to stare back, and tried to transmit an aura of reliability and strength. Dumbledore gave the briefest of nods, before moving on to Peter. “你们都会保持警惕，我相信，”邓布利多继续说道，开始了他的结束讲话。他看着每一个人，仿佛要强调这个情况的严重性。当他与Remus对视时，Remus确保回以凝视，尽力传达一种可靠和坚强的气息。邓布利多稍微点了点头，然后转向Peter。

“And none of you will share this information with anyone outside of this room.” “你们任何人都不会将这个信息告诉房间外的人。”

They all nodded. Remus’s head was spinning - if Lily and James went into hiding, what did that mean? Would they be stuck in Moody’s cellar, like he’d been? He dearly hoped not, he wouldn’t wish that on anybody, least of all his best friends and their baby. 他们都点了点头。Remus的头脑感到眩晕——如果Lily和James躲藏起来，那意味着什么？他们会像他一样被困在Moody的地下室里吗？他非常希望不会，他不愿将这样的命运强加于任何人，更不愿对他的最好的朋友和他们的孩子。

Once Dumbledore had left, they walked out of the cottage, into the thick amber evening sunlight, and looked at each other again. Harry had fallen asleep by now, nestled in Lily’s robes, one chubby hand fisting her long red plait. 当邓布利多离开后，他们走出了小屋，走进了浓厚的琥珀色晚阳下，再次互相看了一眼。Harry现在已经睡着了，蜷缩在Lily的袍子里，一只胖乎乎的手抓着她长长的红色辫子。

“You’d better all come over for dinner,” James said, with a strained smile. “Just in case we don’t get another chance.” “你们最好都来吃晚餐，”James带着勉强的微笑说道，“以防我们没有另一个机会。”

A lump developed in Remus’s throat, and lodged there for the rest of the night. Remus的喉咙里起了个疙瘩，并且在整个夜晚都卡在那里。

Still, they had a nice time. Gully the house elf prepared a full Sunday roast at short notice - glorious roast beef, golden roast potatoes and fluffy yorkshire pudding, two kinds of stuffing, mouth-watering rich dark gravy, carrots, parsnips, peas, broccoli… Remus hadn’t eaten on that scale since Hogwarts. 尽管如此，他们还是度过了一个愉快的时光。Gully，那个家养小精灵，临时准备了一顿丰盛的星期天晚餐——美味的烤牛肉、金黄的烤土豆和蓬松的约克郡布丁，两种馅料，令人垂涎的浓厚深色肉汁、胡萝卜、欧防风、豌豆、花椰菜……Remus自霍格沃茨以来没吃过这么丰盛的饭菜。

Before they began, James raised his glass to toast, “To our friends,” he said, shooting a slightly pointed glance at Sirius, “Who’ve always been there for us, through thick and thin - Lily, Harry and I love you all so much.” 在他们开始之前，James举起酒杯祝酒，“为了我们的朋友们，”他说，瞄了一眼Sirius，“他们一直在我们身边，无论顺境逆境——Lily、Harry和我都非常爱你们。”

Remus had to excuse himself after draining his glass. He spent a few minutes composing himself in the downstairs loo. When he came out, and returned to the table, Sirius was watching him again, his eyes narrow, his mouth an inscrutable straight line. Remus喝光酒杯后不得不离开。他在楼下的厕所里花了几分钟平静下来。当他出来，回到桌前时，Sirius再次注视着他，眼神狡黠，嘴巴紧抿成一条直线。

* * *

Wednesday 10th June 1981

 

Two days later, Sirius disappeared in the night. He must have crept away deliberately, because Remus didn’t even realise until he woke up the next morning, and rolled into the cold empty pillow. He sat up, confused. 两天后，Sirius在夜里消失了。他一定是故意溜走的，因为Remus直到第二天早上醒来时才意识到，转身发现冷冷的空枕头。他坐起来，感到困惑。

“Sirius?” He called to the rest of the flat. It was empty. “Sirius？”他喊着整个公寓。里面空无一人。

He got up and went to the living room, and checked the kitchen - sometimes they left each other notes. There was nothing. But Sirius’s shoes were gone, and the keys to the bike, so he must have left of his own free will, at least. 他起身走到客厅，检查了厨房——有时候他们会留给对方纸条。什么也没有。但Sirius的鞋子不见了，还有摩托车的钥匙，所以他一定是自愿离开的，至少。

Remus sat at the kitchen table and waited, chain smoking. He wanted to contact someone, but there wasn’t anyone who he was sure he could trust - Sirius’s conspiracy theorising was starting to get to him. Remus坐在厨房的桌子旁等着，接连抽烟。他想联系某人，但没有他确定可以信任的对象——Sirius的阴谋论开始让他感到困扰。

Finally, the front door clicked open, and Sirius’s familiar footfall could be heard entering the flat. Remus almost got up and ran to meet him - but he had been treating Sirius with kid gloves ever since James’s attack. 最后，前门咔哒一声打开，Sirius熟悉的脚步声传来。Remus差点儿站起来跑去迎接他——但自从James被袭击后，他一直对Sirius十分小心。

“Moony?” “Moony？”

“In here.” “在这里。”

“Oh, hello,” Sirius stood in the kitchen doorway. He looked flushed - he must have been on the bike. “All right?” “哦，你好，”Sirius站在厨房门口。他看起来有些脸红——他一定是骑了摩托车。“一切还好吗？”

“Where have you been? I was worried!” “你去哪里了？我很担心！”

“Sorry.” He pulled a face and came to sit down at the table too. Remus watched him. He seemed happy. His hair smelled of the countryside, and he was sweating a bit through his black t-shirt - it was gearing up to be a very warm summer. He picked up the cigarette packet, took one out with his teeth and snapped his fingers to light it. “对不起。”他做了个鬼脸，坐到桌旁。Remus看着他。他似乎很开心。他的头发有乡村的气息，他的黑色T恤上有些汗水——夏天正变得非常炎热。他拿起香烟包，用牙齿抽出一支，弹了弹手指点燃。

Remus waited patiently. Remus耐心地等着。

“It happened,” Sirius said, finally, his face shining strangely, pearlescent in the weak light of morning. “They’re hidden.” “事情发生了，”Sirius终于说道，他的脸在清晨微弱的光线中闪耀着奇怪的光泽，“他们已经藏起来了。”

“Lily and James?” Remus squinted, scratching his head, “How?” “Lily和James？”Remus眯着眼睛，挠了挠头，“怎么回事？”

“Dumbledore sorted it all.” “邓布利多安排好了。”

Why didn’t you take me with you? Remus wanted to ask, before scolding himself for having such a selfish thought. That wasn't the important bit. “Is it safe? I gave James a whole scroll of security charms to use, did he--” 为什么你不带我一起去？Remus想问，却在心里责备自己有这么自私的想法。那不是重点。“安全么？我给了James一整卷安全咒语，他用了吗？”

“They won’t need any of that,” Sirius waved a hand. He seemed weirdly triumphant, as if he had just bested Remus at a game of chess. “Dumbledore came up with something better.” “他们不需要那些，”Sirius挥了挥手。他显得异常得意，仿佛刚刚在一场棋局中战胜了Remus。“邓布利多想出了更好的办法。”

“What?” “什么？”

“The fidelius charm.” “Fidelius咒语。”

“The…” Remus frowned. He vaguely remembered having read about that… something to do with implanting a secret into another person. It was powerful stuff, he knew that much. No one would be able to break it, except the secret keeper themselves. “Well, that’ll do it, I suppose.” He said. “But wouldn’t they need someone to put the secret in ?… is it Dumbledore?” “那……”Remus皱起了眉头。他模糊地记得读过有关这个咒语的东西……与将秘密植入另一个人有关。他知道这是一种强大的魔法。除了秘密保管者自己，没有人能破解它。“嗯，我想这会有效。”他说。“但他们需要一个人来植入秘密吗？……是邓布利多吗？”

“He volunteered,” Sirius said. “But in the end, we thought it was better if it was one of us.” “他自愿的，”Sirius说道。“但最后，我们认为由我们中的一个人来做会更好。”

“One of us..?” It dawned on Remus all of a sudden, as if Sirius had dumped a bucket of ice over his head. “No.” Remus said, shaking his head. “我们中的一个人？”突然间，Remus明白了，就像Sirius往他头上倒了一桶冰水。“不。”Remus说，摇摇头。

Sirius was staring at him intensely, his eyes dark blue and more serious than they had ever been. Remus wanted to hit him. Shake him. Wring his neck. Anything to get some sense in his stupid thick skull. “No.” He said again. “It’s too dangerous!” Sirius紧紧地盯着他，眼神深蓝，比以往任何时候都要严肃。Remus想打他。摇他。掐他的脖子。做任何事情来让他那愚蠢的脑袋里有些明白。“不。”他再次说道。“这太危险了！”

“Moony…” Sirius started, “Moony……”Sirius开始说道，

“Don’t you ‘Moony’ me!” Remus said sharply, standing up. He had to pace; had to move, just to keep up with his thoughts. “It’s stupid! It’s the stupidest idea you’ve ever had!” “别叫我‘Moony’！”Remus严厉地说道，站起来。他必须走来走去；必须移动，只为跟上他的思绪。“这太愚蠢了！这是你曾经最愚蠢的主意！”

“It’s not my idea--” “这不是我的主意——”

“Don’t tell me you didn’t volunteer!” Remus rounded on him, furious, “Don’t tell me you didn’t jump at the chance!” “别告诉我你没有自愿！”Remus愤怒地对着他，“别告诉我你没有抓住这个机会！”

“To help my best friends?! To help Harry?! Of course I did!” Sirius was shouting too, and it was awful. “为了帮助我最好的朋友们？！为了帮助Harry？！当然我会！”Sirius也在大喊，这真是糟糕。

“Find someone else!” Remus begged, “Anyone! I’ll do it!” “找其他人！”Remus恳求道，“谁都行！我来做！”

“You can’t.” Sirius shook his head, “It has to be me, you know it does.” “你不行。”Sirius摇了摇头，“必须是我，你知道的。”

“No!” “不！”

“You can’t just keep saying ‘no’. It’s done. It’s dealt with.” “你不能只是一直说‘不’。已经决定了。这件事已经解决了。”

Remus really thought he was going to hit Sirius for a moment. Hit him, or burst into tears like a child. He did neither. He sat down, hard, and covered his face with his hands. Remus真的以为自己会打Sirius一顿。打他，或者像孩子一样哭出来。他都没有。他用力坐下，双手掩面。

“You bastard.” He muttered. “你这个混蛋。”他嘟囔道。

“It’s going to be ok. I’ve made sure.” Sirius said, reaching out to him. Remus batted his hand away. “一切都会好的。我已经确保了。”Sirius说道，伸手去摸他。Remus打掉了他的手。

“You just did it?! Without even telling me?” “你就这么做了？！甚至没告诉我？”

“I’m telling you now!” “我现在告诉你！”

Remus glared at him. He was going to say something he regretted, in a minute. If he didn’t leave, he was going to say something he could never take back. He swallowed his rage, stood up, and walked out of the flat. Remus怒视着他。他很快就会说出让他后悔的话。如果他不离开，他会说出一些永远无法挽回的话。他咽下愤怒，站起来，走出了公寓。

* * *

Friday 24th July 1981

So it was done. After that argument, everything happened very quickly. There were no goodbyes, Lily, James and Harry simply vanished without a trace. Remus knew better than to ask where they were - he wanted them to be safe, after all. And he wanted Sirius to be safe.

The Order was told that the Potters had gone into hiding; that Voldemort was after them because of Lily’s blood status, and her marriage to James.

“It’s awful, not trusting anyone, isn’t it?” Peter said as they left that meeting.

“Yeah.” Remus agreed glumly.

“It’s necessary.” Sirius said. “And if I knew who the spy was, I’d kill them myself. I wouldn’t even need magic.”

Peter and Remus stared at him, shocked.

“Sirius,” Remus said, putting a hand on is shoulder, “We can’t start acting like death eaters - James wouldn’t want--”

“James doesn’t want his child to be murdered by a lunatic on a power trip!” Sirius ranted, jerking away from Remus’s touch, “You’ve gone soft, Moony.” “James不想让他的孩子被一个发疯的权力狂谋杀！”Sirius愤怒地叫道，甩开了Remus的触碰，“你变软了，Moony。”

If I have, Remus though to himself, it’s because of you . No one fell in love with a hard heart; he’d learnt that lesson more than once.

Still, as dreadfully as Sirius was acting, Remus was inclined to make some allowances. It was a very difficult time - the darkest point in the war - and everyone was handling the pressure differently. Peter and Marlene threw themselves into work - they were rarely seen not rushing to one place or another. Mary seemed to withdraw into the muggle world more - she was always around when you needed her, but her mind often seemed to be in two places. Remus had his drinking and his self-pity. So if Sirius wanted to be the angry one for a bit, fine.

But it was still a war - war does not make allowances, or give anyone time to catch their breath. It is relentless and unforgiving, and unimaginably cruel.

It was only a week or so before Harry’s first birthday. Sirius had just got in from Diagon Alley - he’d gone in search of something appropriate for a one year old, and instead returned with an actual broomstick.

“Sirius!”

“Oh come on, Moony, it’s only little!”

“He’s a baby!”

“Got to train him young if he’s ever going to play for England!”

Remus laughed indulgently and sipped his tea while he watched Sirius wrap the toy. He hadn’t seen him so happy in a while, and it was so nice. Then it happened.

Remus耐心地笑了笑，喝了一口茶，看着Sirius包好玩具。他已经很久没见过Sirius如此开心了，感觉真好。然后，事情发生了。

There was a strange scent first, which only Remus picked up. Familiar and friendly, magical. Then, in a flash of bright light, an enormous silver Patronus burst through the wall. It was a lioness, and it prowled the room, snarling.

首先传来了一种奇怪的气味，只有Remus感知到了。熟悉而友好，充满魔力。然后，在一阵明亮的闪光中，一只巨大的银色守护神冲破了墙壁。它是一只母狮，徘徊在房间里，发出咆哮声。

“Fucking hell!” Sirius leapt up, backing away.

“该死！”Sirius跳了起来，向后退去。

The huge cat looked at them both with plaintive eyes and opened its mouth. The scream that emanated from it was bone-chilling and all too familiar. It was Mary.

那只巨大的猫用悲伤的眼神看着他们，张开了嘴。它发出的尖叫声令人毛骨悚然，非常熟悉。那是Mary的声音。

“Help!” It wailed, “Hollyhock House!”

“救命！”它哀嚎道，“Hollyhock House！”

And then it vanished.

然后它消失了。

“That’s the McKinnon’s address.” Remus said, getting up to put his shoes on.

“那是McKinnon的地址。”Remus说道，起身穿上鞋子。

“Where are you going?” Sirius asked.

“你要去哪里？”Sirius问道。

“To help Mary!” Remus said, impatiently, fumbling with his laces, “Come on!”

“去救Mary！”Remus不耐烦地说道，一边笨拙地绑鞋带，“快来！”

“Moony, no,” Sirius said, “We can’t, we have to follow protocol, contact Moody, or Arthur, or Frank, or--”

“Moony，不行，”Sirius说道，“我们不能，我们必须遵循程序，联系Moody，Arthur，或者Frank，或者——”

“Fuck protocol!” Remus shouted, “It’s Mary! She asked for help and I’m going. Stay here if you want.”

“去他妈的程序！”Remus大喊道，“这是Mary！她求救了，我要去。你想留在这里就留吧。”

Of course Sirius didn’t stay.

当然，Sirius没有留下来。

They arrived outside Hollyhock House maybe ten minutes after getting Mary’s Patronus. Neither of them had ever been to Marlene’s home before, though she’d described it a few times. It was a lovely old Tudor style cottage, located a few miles outside of a village in Sussex. There was a long garden path, with a border of bright pansies and geraniums—red, purple, yellow, pink. The front door was painted a soft dusky green, and if you craned your neck you could just make out the tops of three Quidditch hoops in the back garden.

他们在收到Mary的守护神后的十分钟左右到达了Hollyhock House。他们之前从未去过Marlene的家，尽管她曾几次描述过。那是一座漂亮的老式都铎风格的小屋，位于Sussex的一个村庄外几英里处。那里有一条长长的花园小径，边界上种着明亮的紫罗兰和天竺葵——红色、紫色、黄色、粉色。前门涂成柔和的灰绿色，如果你伸长脖子，你可以隐约看到后花园里三根魁地奇球门的顶部。

It might have been pretty, anyway. But not today.

本来可能很漂亮。但今天却不是这样。

Mary was standing at the top of the path by the roadside, frozen, staring blankly up at the blue sky. The Dark Mark hung over the yellow thatched roof; an enormous black cloud, the unmistakable shapes of skull and snake.

Mary站在小径的顶端靠近路边，僵硬地站着，呆呆地望着蓝天。黑魔标记悬在黄色茅草屋顶上方；一团巨大的黑云，显然是骷髅和蛇的形状。

“No!” Remus gasped. Mary turned to him with tears in her eyes,

“不要！”Remus倒抽一口冷气。Mary转向他，眼中含泪，

“They’re all dead.” She said.

“他们都死了。”她说。

“Are you sure?” Sirius said, taking a few steps up the path, wand raised.

“你确定吗？”Sirius问道，走上小径几步，举起了魔杖。

“Yes.” She said, “Yes, they’re all lined up very neatly.”

“是的。”她说，“是的，他们都整齐地排成一排。”

“What?” He looked back at her, frowning.

“什么？”他回头看着她，皱起眉头。

“Lined up… in a row…” she repeated. She swayed for a moment, and Remus put his arms around her, in case she was going to faint. She leaned into him, weeping silently.

“排成一排……排成一行……”她重复道。她摇晃了一下，Remus抱住了她，以防她晕倒。她依偎在他身边，默默地哭泣。

“Stay with her.” Sirius said, continuing up the path. Remus began to tremble. It was like a nightmare; like a horror film. He watched Sirius approach the door, push it open, call inside.

“照顾她。”Sirius说道，继续上小径。Remus开始颤抖。这就像是一场噩梦；像是一部恐怖片。他看着Sirius走向门口，推开门，呼喊里面。

“We were supposed to meet for lunch today, but she never came,” Mary whispered against Remus’s shoulder, still clinging to him, “I thought she was just busy at the hospital… I tried to find her after work, but they said she’d never gone in… so I came here and I…”

“我们今天应该约好一起吃午饭，但她从未出现，”Mary在Remus的肩膀上低声说道，仍紧紧抱着他，“我以为她只是忙于医院……我下班后去找她，但他们说她从未去过……所以我来了这里，我……”

“It’s ok,” Remus said, because what else do you say?

“没事的，”Remus说道，因为还有什么话可以说呢？

“The mark was there, and the door was open, and… oh god, Remus! All of them! Her mum, and her stepdad, and Yaz, and Danny… just lying there! Oh my god, their eyes!” She began to sob in earnest, and Remus held her tighter, feeling his insides turn to water.

“黑魔标记在那里，门是开着的，哦天哪，Remus！他们都死了！她的妈妈，她的继父，Yaz，还有Danny……就这样躺在那里！哦我的天，他们的眼睛！”她开始真正地哭泣，Remus紧紧抱住她，感觉内心如水般流淌。

Sirius came out of the house. Even at a distance, Remus could see the look of horror on his face. He made his way quickly towards them.

Sirius走出了房子。即使从远处，Remus也能看到他脸上的恐怖表情。他迅速走向他们。

“I’m going to get Moody,” he said. “I’ll be back as soon as possible, ok? ...don’t go in there.”

“我要去找Moody，”他说道。“我会尽快回来，好的？……不要进去那里。”

And with that, he disappeared with a loud CRACK.

说完，他发出一声巨响，消失了。

“That’s it.” Mary cried, hysterical, “It’s over, I can’t do this anymore!”

“就这样。”Mary哭喊道，情绪失控，“结束了，我再也无法承受了！”

 

Chapter 173: The War: Autumn 1981 

I loved the words you wrote to me

But that was bloody yesterday.

I can't survive on what you send

Every time you need a friend.

 

I saw two shooting stars last night

I wished on them - but they were only satellites

Is it wrong to wish on space hardware?

I wish, I wish, I wish you'd care.

 

I don't want to change the world

I'm not looking for a new England

I'm just looking for another girl.

 

 Nobody knew who had killed the McKinnons, and nobody knew why. There were theories, of course; the most logical being that with Danny and Marlene in the Order, they were simply an obvious target. Some people wondered if it was because of Marlene’s connection to James and Lily - because she’d healed James. Others thought she’d made too much fuss about werewolf rights at work.

In the end, none of it mattered, not to Remus. Why try to make sense out of something so senseless?

Due to Danny’s previous celebrity status, the murders were front page news. There was a huge picture of him in the Daily Prophet, from his Cannons days - broad, sunny face, robes billowing. No scars. A smaller picture of Marlene which must have been taken for work, because she was in her uniform. Promising young Healer, Mylene McKinnon according to the misspelt caption.

Yasmin was not mentioned at all, though Sirius told Remus they were found lying beside each other, and their fingers were still touching.

“Remember in third year,” Sirius said, in the days that followed, “We all thought you two fancied each other.”

“Yeah.” Remus replied, monotone.

“She was a better beater than me. Wish I’d told her.”

“She knew.” Remus said, with a sad smirk.

Mary was not heard from for a long while. Marlene’s death hit her harder than anyone— they had been practically inseparable since they were eleven. Remus remembered how annoying he used to find them, before he figured out that girls were just people too.

Mary长时间没有被听到消息。Marlene的死对她的打击比任何人都要大——自十一岁起，她们几乎形影不离。Remus记得在他意识到女孩也是普通人之前，曾觉得她们非常烦人。

He remembered her quiet patience, her bouts of fiery passion. The petition to remove the Whomping Willow when she was just thirteen, because someone had been hurt, and Marlene could never stand to see anyone hurt, not if there was something she could do about it. If any one of them had it in them to change the world, it had been her. But no more.

他记得她那安静的耐心和时而迸发的激情。她在十三岁时提出移除Whomping Willow的请愿书，因为有人受了伤，Marlene从来无法忍受看到任何人受伤，尤其是她能做些什么的时候。如果他们之中有谁能够改变世界，那就是她。但现在已经没有了。

Another September rolled around, and as always, Remus was reminded of his childhood and Hogwarts. The scent of parchment, new ink, leather book bags, and sealing wax. A sense of fresh beginnings; of change. How can it have been a full decade since he first arrived at King’s Cross, scrawny and angry and neglected?

又一个九月来临，Remus像往常一样被勾起了对童年和霍格沃茨的回忆。羊皮纸的气味、新墨水、皮革书包和封蜡。新开始的感觉；变化的感觉。怎么会已经过去整整十年，自从他第一次到达King’s Cross，瘦弱、愤怒、被忽视？

So much had changed since then. He had become a man. He had learnt more than he ever thought possible, achieved things he had never dreamed of—his horizons had been expanded again and again, by education, and magic, and friendship, and love. He wasn’t completely different, of course. Remus didn’t kid himself; his temper hadn’t really gone anywhere, nor had his proclivity to repress bad feelings, only to lash out when things got too much.

自那时起，许多事情发生了变化。他已经成为了一个男人。他学到了比他想象中更多的东西，实现了他从未梦想过的成就——他的视野一次又一次地被教育、魔法、友谊和爱扩展。当然，他并没有完全改变。Remus并没有自欺欺人；他的脾气并没有真的改变，他压抑坏情绪的倾向依然存在，只是当事情变得过于沉重时才会爆发。

But he thought he’d been doing better, at least with the people he loved. At least with Sirius. He had opened up and revealed more of himself to Sirius than to anyone else. He had shared feelings which every instinct told him to keep hidden. It hadn’t always been easy—they had fought, they had shouted, they had cried. But it had been worth it.

但他觉得自己做得更好了，至少对待他所爱的人。至少是对Sirius。他向Sirius敞开了心扉，展示了更多的自己。分享了那些每一个本能都告诉他要隐藏的感情。这并不总是容易——他们曾争吵、呐喊、哭泣。但这都是值得的。

At least, Remus thought it had.

至少，Remus觉得是这样。

He wasn’t so sure about Sirius. Maybe it was the toll of the war—too many deaths, too many near misses. Maybe it was the separation from James. Maybe Remus had just tested his patience one too many times. He couldn’t put his finger on it. All Remus knew was that something was very, very wrong.

他对Sirius不那么确定了。也许是战争的代价——太多的死亡，太多的险些发生的事。也许是与James的分离。也许是Remus已经一次又一次地试探了他的耐心。他无法确定是什么问题。Remus只知道，有些事情非常非常不对劲。

It was mid-September by the time he really realised it had happened. Sirius had slipped away from him. They were often apart - Remus had come to see this as a fact of life; their skills were so different, they had different jobs to do. It was nothing, in service of the war. They were glad to do it, and proud to do it.

But after some weeks, Remus came to see that this distance was something else, more than just the usual stress. Sirius had pulled back.

“Miss you.” Remus said, one night. It had taken all day to raise the courage for those two stupid words.

“I’m right here.” Sirius smiled tiredly, sitting across the table, picking at dinner with his fork.

Then, after a while, he spoke again; “It’ll all be over soon. We have to trust Dumbledore, that's all.”

Remus could have wept.

“But you’re the only one I trust.”

Sirius just looked at him, sadly. Remus couldn’t bear that look, it made him feel stupid for being in love. Stupid for caring about anything other than winning the war.

Finally Sirius got up. He picked up his plate and dumped the contents in the bin.

“Got to go.” He said. “Moody wants me to check in. Be back late, don’t stay up waiting.”

He didn’t kiss him goodbye.

Remus was at a loss. Once again, he found himself with a problem that was almost unspeakable. He couldn’t ask James or Lily—even if he knew how to reach them, they had plenty to worry about on their own. Peter had never been very keen to hear about anything to do with Remus and Sirius’s relationship, and though he was a good mate—one of Remus’s best mates—they didn’t really confide in each other like that. Marlene might have helped, but Remus didn’t want to think about it. And of course, Mary’s grief didn’t leave much room for romantic advice.

Remus陷入了困境。再次，他面临着一个几乎无法言说的问题。他不能去问James或Lily——即使他知道如何联系他们，他们自己也有很多担忧。Peter对Remus和Sirius的关系从未很感兴趣，尽管他是个好朋友——Remus最好的朋友之一——但他们并不真正像那样互相倾诉。Marlene可能会帮忙，但Remus不想去想她。而且，Mary的悲痛没有留下多少提供浪漫建议的空间。

Deep down, Remus knew that he ought to ask Sirius outright. Except.

Except he was terrified of the answer. He was terrified that it wasn’t about the war, or James or growing up. He was terrified that the problem was him. What if Sirius had just fallen out of love?

在内心深处，Remus知道他应该直接问Sirius。但。

但他害怕答案。他害怕这不是关于战争、James或成长的问题。他害怕问题是他自己。如果Sirius只是失去了爱？

This anxiety worried away at Remus as the nights drew in and the days turned colder. It all seemed to make a horrible kind of sense; the distance, the unwillingness to talk, the lack of affection, their non-existent sex life. And that look. The look Sirius kept leveling at him—as if Remus was a stranger.

随着夜晚的降临和日子的变冷，这种焦虑困扰着Remus。一切似乎都变得令人恐怖地合理；距离、不愿交谈、缺乏感情、几乎不存在的性生活。还有那种目光。Sirius对他的目光——仿佛Remus是个陌生人。

It was intolerable. Remus didn’t know if he could cope with another loss.

这是无法忍受的。Remus不知道自己是否能承受另一个失落。

So, in early October, when Moody had an assignment for him, Remus was hopeful. Mad-eye took him aside at the end of an Order meeting,

于是，在十月初，当Moody有一个任务交给他时，Remus感到了一丝希望。Mad-eye在一场Order会议结束时把他拉到一边，

“We’ve had eyes on the pack.” he grunted.

“我们已经盯上了那群人。”他咕哝道。

“Greyback?”

“Don’t think so. The insurgents, we reckon. They’re hiding out in a forest in Germany.”

“Oh,” Remus said, surprised. Was it Castor? “Have they attacked someone?”

“No, been keeping their heads down, by the looks of things.”

“That’s good, isn’t it?” Remus said, “We ought to just leave them alone.”

“Trust me, lad, I’d prefer to,” Moody replied, with a wry smile, “But desperate times call for desperate measures. We’re sending you out.”

“To do what? They left Greyback - they left Voldemort. Wasn’t that the plan?”

“It was. Two years ago. We’ve lost a lot of good people since then. Notice how cosy these meetings are getting?”

It was true. The first Order meeting Remus had attended had been overwhelming - the room was packed with witches and wizards ready to fight; to take on the death eaters. Now there were too many missing faces - the McKinnons and the Potters, the Prewetts, old Darius Barebones, Dorcas, Caradoc Dearborn, Benjy Fenwick, Ferox…

“So…” Remus thought hard, “Now you want to recruit the werewolves?”

“Bingo.”

“After years of legislating against them? After forcing them out of jobs? Out of their homes ?!” Remus knew he was being rude - no one spoke to Alastor Moody like that - but he was too tired, too battle-weary to care.

Moody didn’t seem fazed. Remus supposed he got a lot worse abuse from much scarier wizards.

“We know it’s a bit of a big ask. But as I said, desperate times.”

“And is there anything I can offer them in return for, y’know, their lives?!”

“Voldemort’s worse.” Moody returned, “Whatever their lives are now, Voldemort will only make them worse.”

Remus sighed heavily. “Fine.”

He was ready to go, anyway. He was ready for a change; ready to get out of London, out of his miserable life and back to being useful. He even entertained the idea that a long absence might help the Sirius situation. Didn’t absence make the heart grow fonder?

It might be a relief; some breathing space, some time to think. He tested this theory, in his last conversation with Sirius.

“You’ll be glad to have a few weeks off, eh?” He smiled - which took every bit of his strength.

“Hm?” Sirius frowned, looking up from some blueprints he’d been scanning. He looked annoyed at the interruption, and Remus felt a horrible tearing inside his chest. “What did you say?”

“I said you’ll be glad to be rid of me, for a bit.” Remus continued, bravely. “Have me out of the way.”

“Why would you say it like that?” Sirius stared at him, blankly.

“Like what? I just meant… you know, you can have some time to think.”

“There’s no time to think, not until the war’s over.” Sirius snapped, returning to his blueprints, “It’ll be the same whether you’re here or not.”

“没有时间去考虑，战争结束之前都是这样。”Sirius厉声说道，重新回到他的蓝图上，“无论你在不在这里都是一样的。”

That was all Remus could take. He picked up his wand and a packet of cigarettes and left for Germany with only the briefest of goodbyes—as if he was only popping to the shops. He fumed, as he walked to the portkey location. That prick! Give him two weeks on his own, then he’d see; then he’d realise what a dickhead he was being.

这已经是Remus能忍受的极限。他拿起他的魔杖和一包香烟，仅仅留下了简短的告别——仿佛他只是去商店一样，便离开了前往德国。他愤怒地走向传送门的位置。那个混蛋！让他自己待两周，然后他就会明白；然后他就会意识到自己有多么的愚蠢。

Remus would come back, fresh and wild from the forests, and Sirius would be so sorry, so affectionate, and there would be time to talk and mend, and fall in love again.

Remus会回来，带着森林中的新鲜和野性，而Sirius会感到非常抱歉，非常亲热，然后就会有时间去谈谈和修复，再次相爱。

That was all they needed; a bit more time.

* * *

Tuesday, 13 October 1981

Remus was right, too. At least for himself, he did feel much better once he’d left the country. It was so much easier not to think about Sirius - or anything at all in the wizarding world - while he was hidden away in the velvety depths of the Black Forest.

He chose to arrive the afternoon before the full moon - best to approach the pack as a wolf.

The transformation was quick—the woods around him were teaming with life and ancient magic, amplifying the razor sharp power of the full moon. The night itself was as familiar and terrifying as his wolf pelt. The pack found him, close to dawn. They welcomed him home with glee and gathered around, throwing back their necks to howl gorgeously up at the night sky, until the stars rang with their singing.

变身迅速——四周的森林充满了生机和古老的魔法，放大了满月锋利的力量。夜晚既熟悉又可怕，就像他的狼皮一样。黎明将至，狼群找到了他。他们欢欣鼓舞地欢迎他回家，围绕着他，仰起脖子，优美地在夜空中嚎叫，直到星星都在他们的歌声中震颤。

As they all returned to human form, Remus writhed back into life amongst a scrum of other bodies, and Castor’s hands on him, already healing his wounds.

当他们都变回人形时，Remus在其他身体的混乱中挣扎着回到现实，Castor的手已经在他身上，开始疗愈他的伤口。

“It is good to see you, Remus Lupin.”

“见到你很高兴，Remus Lupin。”

They all walked slowly through the trees as the butter yellow October light filtered down onto the leaf litter.

他们缓慢地穿过树林，黄油般的十月阳光透过树叶洒在地上的落叶上。

In the time the pack had been living there, they had constructed a small village of wattle huts to live in. They all curled up to sleep on soft dry moss with birdsong trilling overhead.

在狼群居住的时间里，他们建造了一个小村庄，由柳条编成的小屋组成。他们蜷缩在柔软干燥的苔藓上睡觉，头顶传来鸟儿的鸣唱。

Remus woke up without knots in his shoulders, and without his jaw clenched. He was relaxed for the first time in months. Castor lay beside him, so warm, and so peaceful, his soft brown skin pressing against Remus’s in places. Remembering his humanity, Remus pulled away slightly. Castor’s eyes opened and peered into his.

Remus醒来时肩膀没有紧绷，咬紧的下巴也放松了。他第一次在几个月里感到放松。Castor躺在他旁边，温暖而宁静，他柔软的棕色皮肤在某些地方贴在Remus身上。意识到自己的身份，Remus稍微退后了一些。Castor的眼睛睁开了，凝视着他。

“Are you well, Remus Lupin?”

“Yes, fine thanks.” He rubbed his eyes. Castor kept watching him.

“You are suffering.” He said. A statement, not a question.

“I’ve lost some people.” Remus said, “We’re losing the war.”

“Yes,” Castor agreed. “And you have come to ask for our help, is that not so, Remus Lupin?”

“I know it's not a small thing…”

“We will stay here. This is our home.”

“You understand I wouldn’t ask unless the situation was desperate. You understand… Voldemort won’t spare werewolves, either?”

“We do.” Castor said, simply. “And we are agreed. We will stay here. We will hide - we are good at it.”

“I found you.”

“Yes, Remus Lupin. You will always be welcome.”

Remus sat up, and reached for the wolfskin cloak at his feet, covering himself with it.

“Well that's that, then.” He said. “I’d better get back.”

Castor reached up and placed a hand on his arm.

“Stay a while, Remus Lupin. We have so much to show you. Perhaps then you will see.”

So Remus stayed. He thought that if he spent a bit of time with them, as before, he might be able to talk to them, change somebody’s mind. Most of them had wizarding family back in the UK; he had to be able to appeal to them, surely.

所以Remus留下来了。他认为，如果他花点时间和他们在一起，就像以前一样，也许他可以说服他们，改变某些人的想法。他们中的大多数人在英国有巫师家庭；他一定能打动他们的。

He couldn’t go back to the Order without trying—everyone else was giving their whole selves to the fight, and this was, after all, his purpose. If he couldn’t be a decent emissary to the werewolves, then what good was he at all?

他不能在没有尝试的情况下回到凤凰社——其他人都全身心投入战斗，而这毕竟是他的使命。如果他不能成为一个体面的狼人使者，那他还有什么用呢？

Still, it wasn’t a difficult decision to make. It was no great sacrifice. He had nothing to go back to except a very difficult conversation with Sirius.

不过，这并不是一个难以做出的决定。这也不是巨大的牺牲。他没有什么好回去的，除了和Sirius进行一场非常困难的对话。

And he did talk to them. Over the three weeks Remus spent with the werewolves in October 1981, he spoke to each and every one of them. He reasoned, he sermonised, he ranted. But it was no use at all; they were all happy. Not in a mad, deluded ‘everything is perfect’ way, as some of the Greyback followers had been. But in a practical, empowered way—they saw a future for themselves, they saw a way to live a life free from cruelty or intervention. It wasn’t for everyone—it definitely wasn’t for Remus—but he couldn’t deny they were making it work.

他确实和他们交谈了。在1981年10月的三周里，Remus与每一个狼人交谈了。他进行劝说、布道、发泄。但完全没有用；他们都很幸福。不是那种疯狂的、被幻想所困扰的“万事皆美好”，就像一些Greyback的追随者一样。而是一种实际的、充满力量的方式——他们看到了自己的未来，看到了一种摆脱残酷或干预的生活方式。这种生活方式并不适合所有人——对Remus来说绝对不适合——但他不能否认他们在成功地实现这一点。

In fact, as time went on, Remus lost track of who was doing the persuading. Everyone was so keen to take him hunting, to show him how to weave wood, or cast protective spells which made them almost invisible to humans. He was never hungry, or cold, or in fear for his life.

事实上，随着时间的推移，Remus已经失去了谁在说服谁的感觉。每个人都很热衷于带他去打猎，展示如何编织木材，或施放使他们几乎对人类不可见的保护咒语。他从未感到饥饿、寒冷，或对生命的恐惧。

“Do you see now?” Castor asked one evening, as Halloween approached.

“Yes, I see.” Remus replied, staring up at the thatched ceiling. “You’d all rather hide, like cowards.”

“You do not believe that, Remus Lupin.” Castor smirked, settling down to sleep. He occasionally demonstrated actual emotion, now that he and Remus were so close.

Remus had elected to keep sharing a hut with him. He didn’t like sleeping alone, and it wasn’t as if anything was going on; it just made sense. He had to stay close to the leader; it was what anyone would do. And yes, it was an intense relationship, but that simply didn’t mean it was anything to do with sex. That was simply how things were with the werewolves—everything was motivated by scent and instinct and the phases of the moon.

Remus选择继续和他共用一个小屋。他不喜欢一个人睡觉，况且也没有什么事情发生；这只是很自然的事。他必须保持和领袖的接近，这也是任何人都会做的事。是的，这是一种强烈的关系，但这并不意味着这与性有关。这只是狼人世界的常态——一切都由气味、直觉和月亮的阶段决定。

Still, Remus knew how it would look. He didn’t kid himself that Sirius was going to suddenly have a change of heart and come racing desperately to Germany to find him, but Remus knew that it was pretty wrong, even without a chance of getting caught. It was pathetic, too. He scolded himself about it through the long dark nights; you’re a ridiculous excuse for a man. A few weeks feeling ignored and you’re cosying up to the next good looking bloke who shows you any interest. And you haven’t even got the balls to do anything about it.

尽管如此，Remus知道这会给人一种怎样的印象。他不指望Sirius会突然心软，急忙赶到德国来找他，但Remus知道，即使没有被抓住的机会，这也相当不对。这也很可悲。他在漫长的黑夜里自责；你真是个可笑的男人。几周的被忽视，你就对下一个对你表示兴趣的帅哥温情脉脉。你甚至没有勇气去做点什么。

In the end, it was his desire for Castor that told him he needed to leave. And his love for Sirius. Remus had done some very drastic and very stupid things in his life, but he was not going to run away to live in a forest just to escape talking to the love of his life. He would go home, and he would force himself to confront it. He would do everything he could to keep Sirius, because deep down, he knew that it was the only thing that really mattered.

最终，正是对Castor的渴望告诉他他需要离开。还有对Sirius的爱。Remus在一生中做过一些非常激烈和愚蠢的事情，但他不会为了逃避与他生命中的挚爱对话而跑到森林里生活。他会回家，并强迫自己面对它。他会竭尽全力留住Sirius，因为他深知那是唯一真正重要的事。

* * *

 

2nd November 1981

The portkey had closed, and Remus couldn’t get in touch with anyone. He had to get himself back to Britain alone, apparating part of the way, hitching lifts the rest.

传送门已经关闭，Remus无法联系任何人。他不得不独自回到英国，一部分路程靠瞬间移动，剩下的部分则靠搭便车。

By the time Remus had staggered his way into London, he hadn’t even the energy to apparate. He got a bus instead, and fell asleep halfway to Leicester Square. He got off and stopped at his usual corner shop for a pouch of tobacco. He bought two Mars bars as well - if Sirius was in, he could have one. If not then tough luck, Remus would scoff them both.

当Remus摇摇晃晃地走进伦敦时，他甚至没有力气瞬间移动。他改乘了公交车，并在到Leicester Square的半路上睡着了。他下车后停在了他常去的便利店，买了一包烟。他还买了两根Mars巧克力棒——如果Sirius在家，他可以吃一根。如果不在，那就没办法了，Remus就自己把两根都吃了。

As he unlocked his front door, he could hear the phone ringing. It took him a few moments to get in - the wooden frame had swollen with all the rainfall, and the door got gummed up sometimes - but when he got in, it was still ringing. Must be urgent, he thought, absent-mindedly.

当他打开前门时，他能听到电话在响。他花了几分钟才进门——木框因降雨而膨胀，门有时会被粘住——但当他进门时，电话还在响。一定是紧急的，Remus心不在焉地想。

He shouted, “Padfoot? You in?” as he crossed the the room, then lifted the receiver, “Hello?”

“Hello? Hello, Remus, is that you?”

“Mary? Hi! I just got back - where the hell is everybody?!”

There was a strange silence on the end of the phone, and a horrible static prickle ran down his spine. “Mary?!”

“You haven’t heard…”

“Jesus Christ, Mary, what?!”

“Remus… something awful has happened.”

She started explaining, and Remus fell to his knees as the whole world began to fall apart.

 

Chapter 174: Armistice 

He who endured my hardships with me

He now has gone to the fate that awaits mankind

Day and night, I have wept for him

I would not give him over for burial

For what if he had risen at my cries?

Six days and seven nights I waited

Until a worm crawled out of his nose

Since he has gone

There is no life left for me.

* * *

James died first. Remus ought to have expected that. He would have been waiting right at the front door; it would never even cross his mind to hide, or run.

Then Lily, standing in front of her son. Remus pictured her defiant face, her hands gripping the sides of the cot, her green eyes blazing. She would have met death with her eyes wide open, that was certain.

接着是Lily，站在她儿子的面前。Remus想象着她坚定的面容，她的手紧紧抓着婴儿床的边缘，她那绿色的眼睛闪烁着火焰。她一定是睁着眼睛面对死亡的，这一点毫无疑问。

And then Peter, next. Oh Peter, the idiot - the brave, ridiculous idiot. He must have heard about James and Lily, he must have known at once who was to blame. After all those years in James and Sirius’s shadow, Peter’s first instinct had been to face Black himself.

然后是Peter，哦，Peter，那傻瓜——勇敢而又荒谬的傻瓜。他一定听说了James和Lily的事，他一定立刻知道了谁应该为此负责。在那些年里，Peter一直生活在James和Sirius的阴影下，但他的第一反应却是直接面对Black。

He’d inadvertently led Aurors right to Sirius, so his brutal death hadn’t been completely in vain.

他无意中把Aurors引到了Sirius那里，所以他的残忍死亡并非完全没有意义。

Right to Sirius.

正好是Sirius。

And there was the block. Like a curtain falling across the scene, Remus’s mind wouldn’t touch Sirius. He couldn’t get there; couldn’t picture any of it. He supposed that was his brain’s way of protecting him. It hurt enough just knowing the bare facts.

但到此为止。仿佛一块帷幕遮住了画面，Remus的思维无法触及Sirius。他无法到达那里；无法想象其中的任何一幕。他想这可能是他大脑保护他的方式。仅仅知道这些基本事实就已经很痛苦了。

Mary came over as soon as she’d hung up the phone. She was the only person he could have tolerated, anyway, and god; she was so strong. He lay his head in her lap, and she stroked his hair like a mother.

Mary在挂断电话后立刻过来了。她是唯一一个他可以忍受的人，天啊，她是如此坚强。他把头靠在她的膝盖上，她像母亲一样抚摸他的头发。

“Sirius,” he wept, over and over, clinging to her skirt, “Sirius!”

“Sirius，”他一遍遍地哭泣，紧紧抓住她的裙子，“Sirius！”

“I know,” she whispered back, tears streaming down her cheeks, dripping into his hair. “I know, I know...”

“我知道，”她低声回答，泪水流淌下来，滴进他的头发里。“我知道，我知道……”

She’d brought a sleeping draught with her, and Remus drank it all down greedily, eager for escape. While he slept, Mary packed up all of Sirius’s things. All of his clothes, his records, his books. When Remus got up, the flat seemed almost empty.

她带来了安眠药，Remus贪婪地喝光了，渴望逃离。在他睡觉的时候，Mary打包了Sirius的所有东西。他的衣物、唱片、书籍。当Remus醒来时，公寓几乎显得空空如也。

“I had Darren move them down to the garage,” she explained. “You don’t need to touch any of it until you’re ready. The bike’s gone, I don’t know where.”

“我让Darren把它们搬到车库去了，”她解释说。“你不需要碰任何东西，直到你准备好。摩托车不见了，我不知道去了哪里。”

“He must have taken it.” Remus said, feeling numb. He was already wondering how much alcohol he had in the flat, and whether or not he ought to wait for Mary to leave before he started working his way through it.

“他一定是拿走了。”Remus说，感到麻木。他已经在想公寓里还有多少酒，是否应该等Mary离开后再开始喝酒。

“Remus… I have to go, now.” She said, gently, standing up, hugging herself. She looked small. Mary had always been a larger than life sort of girl, but Remus realised that she could barely be 5’5.

“Remus……我现在得走了。”她温柔地说，站起来，抱着自己。她看起来很渺小。Mary一直是那种气质超凡的女孩，但Remus意识到她可能连5尺5寸都不到。

“Yes, of course.” He murmured. There was definitely some gin under the sink in the kitchen.

“是的，当然。”他低声说道。厨房水槽下肯定有些杜松子酒。

“I’ll be gone for a while,” she said. “I’m going… Darren’s taking me to Jamaica, to stay with family. I need some time away, I don’t know when I’ll be back.”

“我会离开一段时间，”她说。“我要去……Darren会带我去牙买加，和家人待在一起。我需要一些时间离开，我不知道什么时候回来。”

“Oh.” He looked her in the eye, properly. She wasn’t wearing any makeup - he hadn’t seen Mary without eyeliner and lipstick since she was twelve.

“哦。”他认真地看着她。她没有化妆——自从她十二岁以来，Remus就没有见过不化妆的Mary。

“Is there… can someone stop by, to see you? I don’t mind making a phone call for you?”

“有……有人可以过来看你吗？我不介意为你打个电话。”

“It’s fine.” He said, “Don’t worry about me.”

“没关系。”他说，“别担心我。”

“But I will.” She said, smiling half-heartedly. “Are you sure I can’t contact anyone?”

“但我会担心。”她半心不在焉地笑了笑。“你确定我不能联系任何人吗？”

“There’s no one.” He said. I’ve got no one.

“没有人。”他说。我没有人。

“Perhaps speak to Moody? Or Arthur?”

“也许找Moody？或者Arthur？”

“Yeah, good idea.” Remus nodded. He didn’t want to talk to anyone, but he didn’t want her to worry. “Do you know… What are we supposed to do, now?”

“嗯，好主意。”Remus点了点头。他不想和任何人谈话，但他不想让她担心。“你知道……我们现在该怎么办？”

“I don’t know.”

“我不知道。”

“Have you spoken to Dumbledore?”

“你和Dumbledore说过话吗？”

“Ha.” Mary snorted, “Good luck getting hold of him. Too busy being congratulated by the ministry. He’ll probably be at the… the memorial service.”

“哈哈。”Mary嗤之以鼻，“祝好运找到他。他太忙于接受魔法部的祝贺了。他可能会去……纪念服务。”

Remus felt as if an ice cold blade was twisting in his gut. This couldn’t be real.

Remus感到像是冰冷的刀刃在他的胃部扭动。这不可能是真的。

“Why us.” He said, looking up at her, desperate for answers, “Out of everyone. Why is it you and me left, and not Lily and James? Who decided that?! It’s bollocks!”

“为什么是我们。”他抬起头看着她，迫切地寻找答案，“为什么是你和我留下，而不是Lily和James？是谁决定的？！这真是扯淡！”

“I know, sweetheart.” She said, softly. “I know.”

“我知道，亲爱的。”她柔声说。“我知道。”

He couldn’t wait any longer, he went to the kitchen and grabbed the nearest open bottle from the cupboard. Gin, leftover from some party or other. He didn’t pour a glass, just drank.

他再也等不下去了，他走进厨房，拿起橱柜里最近的一瓶开过的酒。杜松子酒，是某个聚会剩下的。他没有倒酒，只是直接喝。

“Remus,” Mary said, chewing her lip, watching him from the living room, “I really do have to go… do you promise you’ll get in touch with Arthur?”

“Remus，”Mary说，咬着嘴唇，从客厅看着他，“我真的得走了……你答应我会联系Arthur吗？”

“Yeah.” He nodded. He just wanted her to leave, now. “See ya.”

“嗯。”他点了点头。他现在只想让她离开。“再见。”

“Goodbye, love. I’ll be back, I promise.”

“再见，亲爱的。我会回来的，我保证。”

And she left. And Remus was alone.

 

然后她离开了。Remus只剩下了一个人。

 

Chapter 175: 1982Times at a distance, times without touch,

Greed forms the habit of asking to much,

Followed at bedtime by builders and bells,

Wait 'til the doldrums which nothing dispels.

 

Idly, mentally, doubtful and dread -

Who runs with the beans shall go stale with the bread.

Let me lie fallow in dormant dismay

Tell me tomorrow, don't bother today.

 

Fucking ada! Fucking ada!

Fucking ada! Fucking ada!

 

Tried like a good 'un, did it all wrong

Thought that the hard way was taking to long

To late for regret or chemical change;

Yesterday's targets have gone out of range.

 

Failure enfolds me with clammy green arms,

Damn the excursions and blast the alarms,

For the rest of what's natural I'll lay on the ground;

Tell me tomorrow if I'm still around.

 

FUCKING ADA, FUCKING ADA!





New Years Day 1982

THUD-THUD-THUD-THUD-THUD-THUD

Someone was banging on the door.

They’d been doing it for a while now, and showed no sign of stopping. If anything, it was getting worse.

 

 

Remus opened his eyes. His throat was dry and his head hurt. Actually, everything hurt; he’d been sleeping on the couch for weeks. Or months? Who cared. It was uncomfortable, but he couldn’t bring himself to enter the bedroom. Most nights he was too drunk to move anyway. Most days he was too drunk. He didn’t have hangovers anymore, just breaks between bottles. The kid next door didn’t mind running down to the off-licence every other day for him; he was probably making a killing in spare change.

Remus睁开眼睛。喉咙干涩，头痛得厉害。实际上，整个身体都很痛；他已经在沙发上睡了好几周，甚至几个月？谁在乎。这很不舒服，但他无法让自己走进卧室。大多数夜晚他都醉得动不了。大多数白天他也醉。已经没有宿醉了，只是瓶子之间的间隙。隔壁的孩子不介意隔几天就跑到酒类商店去买酒给他，他可能靠这些零碎的钱赚了不少。

The banging continued.

“Remus?!” The muffled sound came through the door, and whoever was on the other side kept hammering away.

敲击声继续传来。

“Remus？！”门外传来了含糊的声音，那边的人还在不停地敲打着门。

“Fuck off,” he shouted, his throat raw as sandpaper.

“滚开，”他喊道，喉咙干裂得像砂纸一样。

He reached for the nearest bottle on the floor beneath him and swigged from it. He nearly choked on the burning whisky but managed to get most of it down, thank god. He couldn’t afford to waste one drop of oblivion.

他伸手去拿地板上最近的瓶子，痛痛快快地喝了一口。差点被那烧灼的威士忌呛到，但勉强把大部分喝下去了，谢天谢地。他不能浪费一滴麻木的药水。

“Remus? Let me in!”

It was Grant. He recognised the voice now—maybe the scent too, but his senses had been a mess, ever since… no, no no no….

“Remus？让我进来！”

是Grant。他现在认出了声音——也许是气味，但自从……不，不不不……

He curled up, burying his head in the sofa cushions. He couldn’t talk to anyone. He couldn’t see anyone. He just needed to be left, to drink and to forget. Please.

他蜷缩起来，把头埋进沙发垫里。他无法和任何人谈话。他无法见任何人。他只需要被放置一旁，喝酒，忘记。求你了。

“Fuck off!” He sobbed, yelling at the door, “Leave me alone!”

“滚开！”他哭泣着喊道，“离我远点！”

“No!” Grant shouted back, and the banging got louder still, a relentless, resounding thud-thud-thud. He was actually trying to break the door down, the stupid prat.

“不！”Grant回喊道，敲击声变得更大了，持续不断的“砰砰砰”声。他居然真的试图把门打破，这个愚蠢的傻瓜。

Remus half considered just casting a silencing spell. But he wasn’t sure where his wand was. He rolled over again and got up.

Remus半考虑施个静音咒。但他不确定他的魔杖在哪里。他再次翻身起床。

There were bottles and cans all over the floor, and they clinked and rustled as he waded through. His arms and legs felt like lead. What day was it? It was cold. He rubbed his arms as he approached the door, shuddering against the chill. He’d left a window open somewhere in the flat and forgotten to shut it. Oh well.

地板上满是瓶子和罐子，他踩过去时发出叮当声和沙沙声。他的手臂和腿感觉像铅一样沉重。今天是几号？天气很冷。他走向门口时搓着手臂，感到一阵寒冷。他在公寓里某处留了个窗户没关。算了。

The door was still being thumped as he reached it; the wood would splinter if he wasn’t careful.

他到达门口时，门还在被猛烈敲击，如果不小心的话，木门可能会裂开。

“What?!” He yanked the door open.

“什么？！”他猛地拉开了门。

Grant stared at him, fist still raised, wide-eyed. His cheeks were pink from shouting, and he was breathing heavily. He looked Remus up and down.

Grant盯着他看，拳头还在半空中，瞪大了眼睛。他的脸颊因为喊叫而变得通红，呼吸急促。他上下打量着Remus。

“Jesus christ.” He said, rudely pushing his way in. “What happened? I’ve been trying to ring ya for days, what’s wrong with the phone?”

“天哪。”他说，粗鲁地推开了他。“发生了什么事？我已经试了好几天打电话，电话怎么了？”

“Off the hook.” Remus said, slowly returning to his nest on the couch, where at least it was warm. He curled his cold feet under himself and picked up the bottle again.

“没挂好。”Remus说，缓缓回到沙发上的窝里，至少那里比较温暖。他把冰冷的脚缩到自己身下，又拿起瓶子。

“The fuck’s been going on here?” Grant looked around at the mess. He looked at Remus again, “...gawd, ‘e ain’t left you, has ‘e?”

“这里到底发生了什么？”Grant看着周围的混乱，又看了看Remus，“……天哪，他没离开你吧？”

Remus stared up at him, and he couldn’t help it. He began to cry. He leaned forward on his knees, dropping his head into his hands, and he bawled like a child.

Remus抬头看着他，忍不住哭了。他趴在膝盖上，把头埋在双手里，像个孩子一样痛哭。

“Shit,” Grant hurried over to sit next to him, not minding the empty cans, the smelly cushions, and blankets. “Me and my big mouth! I’m sorry! I didn’t mean…” He pulled Remus to him without a thought, and it must have been awful, because Remus knew he hadn't washed in ages, all he’d done was drink and cry for days and days and days, but Grant held him fast.

“该死，”Grant急忙坐到他身边，不在意地上的空罐子、难闻的垫子和毯子，“我这张嘴真是不该！对不起！我不是那个意思……”他毫不犹豫地把Remus抱到自己怀里，可能是很糟糕，因为Remus知道自己已经很久没洗澡了，这几天只是喝酒和哭泣，但Grant紧紧地抱着他。

“They’re all gone.” Remus said, when he could speak. “I’m alone.”

“他们全都走了。”Remus说，当他能说话时，“我一个人。”

“Bollocks.” Said Grant. “You’re not alone.”

“胡扯。”Grant说，“你并不孤单。”

Remus cried even harder.

Remus哭得更厉害了。

* * *

Not a single day went by – and not one day would ever go by, for many years – that he did not think of Sirius and suffer. It was an abstract and cruel torture, and Remus resigned himself to a life of utter misery.

每天都没有一天过去——多年来没有一天会过去——他不去思考Sirius而受苦。这是一种抽象而残酷的折磨，Remus对彻底的痛苦生活心甘情愿。

Everywhere he looked he was haunted by thoughts and memories of his friends, of the things they could never do, and the things he had not done in time. He attended the funeral—a joint one for Lily and James, followed by a memorial for Peter. Remus sat at the back and left before the wake, in case anyone tried to speak to him.

他四处张望，思绪和记忆都被朋友们的影像所困扰，那些他们无法完成的事情，以及他没有及时做的事。他参加了葬礼——这是Lily和James的合葬仪式，随后是Peter的纪念仪式。Remus坐在最后一排，在守灵之前离开了，以防有人试图和他说话。

He was terrified that someone might ask him about Sirius—might ask him what he knew. Or tell him something he didn’t want to know. So Remus did not stay to reminisce or ‘celebrate’ his friends’ lives (honestly, what a despicable idea). He went home alone and got drunk. He got drunk every day for weeks.

他害怕有人会问他关于Sirius的事——可能会问他知道什么。或者告诉他他不想知道的事。所以Remus没有留下来回忆或者“庆祝”朋友们的生命（老实说，这真是个可憎的主意）。他一个人回家，喝酒。他连续几个星期每天都喝醉。

He stayed at the flat in Soho—he had no choice in the matter; no money, no family. No friends.

他待在Soho的公寓里——他没有选择；没有钱，没有家庭。没有朋友。

The Order disbanded and those who still had lives worth living didn’t want to know him. He couldn’t find any work in the wizarding world and—never having felt at home in it anyway—chose to withdraw.

凤凰社解散了，那些还有值得活下去的生活的人不愿意和他接触。他在魔法世界中找不到任何工作——反正他从未在其中感到归属——于是选择了退出。

After learning about the fate of the Longbottoms in the Daily Prophet, he stopped reading the papers. He did not re-connect to the floo network, he did not use magic at all unless he really had to. He never went to Diagon Alley, and for all intents and purposes lived as a Muggle.

在《预言家日报》中得知Longbottom夫妇的命运后，他停止了阅读报纸。他没有重新连接到火焰网络，除非真的不得不，他不使用魔法。他从未去过对角巷，就实际而言，过着麻瓜的生活。

Mary sent postcards from Jamaica, from Trinidad, from Saint Lucia—she seemed to have family all over the Caribbean. She kept saying sorry. Remus didn’t know what for; they’d both lost the same things. At least she cared enough to get in touch.

Mary从牙买加、特立尼达、圣卢西亚寄来了明信片——她似乎在加勒比地区有家人。她不断道歉。Remus不知道她在为什么道歉；他们都失去了相同的东西。至少她还关心到与他联系。

Dumbledore actually did try to contact him a couple of times, but Remus deliberately made himself difficult to reach. He was furious at the old man, who as far as Remus was concerned had never lifted a finger to help. Who had thrust them all into the war, young as they were, and stupid as they were, and who watched them die one by one without so much as blinking. Even the baby, Harry, was quickly tidied away into some anonymous corner of Surrey. The Marauders might never have existed at all. Better that they hadn’t.

Dumbledore确实尝试过几次联系他，但Remus故意让自己难以接触。他对这个老人非常愤怒，在Remus看来，Dumbledore从未伸出一根手指来帮助他们。这个人将他们所有人拖入了战争，无论他们多么年轻，或多么愚蠢，却眼睁睁地看着他们一个个死去，连眼睛都没眨一下。连那个婴儿Harry也被迅速送到了萨里郡的某个匿名角落。麻瓜骑士们也许从未存在过。最好他们从未存在。

For a while, Remus wondered when it would end.

有一段时间，Remus想知道这何时会结束。

After long enough, he realized it never would, and so just tried to dull the pain. It might have been selfish, but what else was left but to be selfish? He had sacrificed plenty.

过了足够长的时间，他意识到这永远不会结束，于是他试图麻木痛苦。这可能是自私的，但除了自私之外，还剩下什么？他已经牺牲了很多。

When the first full moon came, the November after that grisly Halloween, Remus was forced to leave the flat. He apparated back to the forest he’d stayed in with Greyback’s pack back in ‘79. It was better than a cell. He wouldn’t be locked up, he wouldn’t allow it. So he left, he transformed, and he wandered the woods alone, howling and hunting and snarling. The first time was a relief, but the wolf was lonely. The second time, he went to the Black Forest.

当第一个满月来临时，那是在那个可怕的万圣节后的11月，Remus被迫离开了公寓。他瞬移回到了1979年和Greyback的狼群呆过的森林。比起牢房，这要好得多。他不愿被锁起来，他不会允许。所以他离开了，变身成狼，独自在森林中游荡，嚎叫、狩猎、咆哮。第一次是种解脱，但狼感到孤独。第二次，他去了黑森林。

He didn’t intend to live amongst the werewolves, he just used them as an escape route.

他并不打算在狼人中生活，他只是把他们当作一种逃避的途径。

They knew little of the war, except that it was over. The first time, Castor sensed Remus’s pain at once. They didn’t speak of it—because there was no need. They simply transformed and dealt with it as wolves. Remus decided that whatever happened when they were not human didn’t count, as long as they didn’t hurt anyone. It was freeing, and the only relief Remus knew in those darkest months after his loss.

他们对战争知之甚少，只知道战争已经结束。第一次，Castor立刻感知到了Remus的痛苦。他们没有谈论这些——因为没有必要。他们只是变成狼，以狼的方式处理这些问题。Remus决定，无论发生什么，只要他们不伤害任何人，那些人狼之间的事都不算数。这种解脱感是Remus在失落的最黑暗时刻中唯一的安慰。

In the mornings after the moon, Remus would stay a little longer each time, just to be near them. With nothing left to lose, he gave up any pretence of superiority when it came to the pack, and in time, Castor finally got what he wanted.

月圆之后的早晨，Remus每次都会多待一会儿，只是为了靠近他们。没有什么可失去的，他放弃了对狼群的任何优越感，最终，Castor终于得到了他想要的。

Remus couldn’t deny his attraction to Castor much longer, and after all; who did he need to be loyal to? Was he supposed to live celibate for the rest of his life simply because his first love had broken his heart? And there was no love between him and Castor. Only animal need; bestial rutting. It was good, but it was only another way to forget. And Remus always returned to London, sore and still unsatisfied.

Remus再也无法否认自己对Castor的吸引，毕竟；他还需要忠诚于谁？难道他要因为第一次爱情让他心碎而终身保持禁欲吗？而他和Castor之间并没有爱情。只有动物的需求；野兽的交配。这种方式虽然好，但只是另一种忘却的方式。Remus总是回到伦敦，身体疲惫，依然无法满足。

In the human world, Grant still came back for regular visits, after that first time. He took the spare key and popped in to check on Remus between his lectures and pub shifts. He was both a help and a hindrance, bringing bottles of Muggle spirits and other substances—whatever Remus asked for.

在现实世界中，Grant在第一次之后还定期回来探望。他拿着备用钥匙，在讲座和酒吧工作之间回来看Remus。他既是帮助者，又是障碍者，带来了麻瓜的烈酒和其他物品——无论Remus要什么，他都会带来。

He’d been kicked out of his bedsit for soliciting (not true, he insisted—the landlady just had it in for him) and now Grant bounced between boyfriends’ beds and friends’ couches. Sometimes he even stayed with Remus for a night or two, and that was okay, Remus didn’t mind. He didn’t care about very much, as long as he had plenty to drink. He needed to be drunk. Before the war ended, it had just been a way to take the edge off; to change his mood. Now it was his mood; the only one he could bear.

他因卖淫被房东赶出了出租屋（他说这不是真的——房东只是对他有意见），现在Grant在男朋友的床和朋友的沙发之间辗转。有时他甚至会和Remus一起待一两晚，这也没问题，Remus不在意。他对很多事情都不在乎，只要有足够的酒。他需要喝醉。在战争结束之前，这只是减轻压力的方式；改变心情。现在这就是他的心情；唯一他能忍受的心情。

It was Grant who talked at him, nagged him, dragged him out of bed and pushed him into the shower when he needed to. He even did the laundry and bought groceries with Remus’s remaining dwindling funds.

是Grant对他说话，唠叨他，把他从床上拖出来，推他去洗澡。他甚至洗衣服，用Remus剩余不多的资金买杂货。

Remus, for his part, behaved abysmally. He made spiteful comments, hurled insults. But Grant paid it no mind and kept returning all the same.

Remus表现得非常糟糕。他发表恶意评论，发出侮辱。但Grant却毫不在意，仍然一如既往地回到Remus身边。

“You only come back because you’re basically homeless.” Remus spat one evening, from the couch, as Grant collected the rubbish littered around him. Remus couldn’t bear the clinking sound empty bottles made.“你回來只是因為你基本上無家可歸。”一天晚上，當格蘭特收集散落在他周圍的垃圾時，萊姆斯在沙發上吐了口水。萊姆斯無法忍受空瓶發出的丁當聲。

“Yep,” Grant replied, blithely, carrying on about his business, “That’s exactly right, Remus me old pal. Nuffink to do with the fact that I love your dozy arse.”

“没错，”Grant轻松地回答，继续做他的事，“没错，Remus老朋友。完全不是因为我爱你那懒洋洋的屁股。”

Remus snorted disdainfully. Grant didn’t know what he was talking about. Love! Remus knew the truth now. He knew that love was just something people said to make you weak—to keep you pliant. Never again. Never never never.

Remus不屑地嗤笑。Grant根本不知道他在说什么。爱情！Remus现在知道真相了。他知道爱情不过是人们用来让你变弱——让你屈从的东西。绝不再有。绝对绝对绝对不再有。

Miraculously, Grant never once asked what had happened. Even when Remus began to show signs of improvement, started getting himself up and dressed without hours of nudging, even when he started leaving the house. Grant never asked why.

奇迹般地，Grant从未询问过发生了什么事。即使Remus开始显示出改善的迹象，开始在没有多小时催促的情况下起床穿衣，甚至开始离开家。Grant也从未问过原因。

Remus knew he had ranted, in his drunken stupors, pouring out misery and rage about Sirius and James and Lily and poor, poor Peter, and Sirius and Sirius and Sirius...

Remus知道他在醉酒中发泄过，对Sirius、James、Lily以及可怜的Peter以及Sirius的一片片痛苦和愤怒……

Whether Grant understood half of it, or whether Remus said too much, he never knew. But Grant kept coming back, anyway.

Grant是否理解了其中的一半，或者Remus是否说了太多，他从未知道。但Grant还是不断地回来。

“I’ll keep coming, long as you need me.” He’d say, cheerfully as he flitted about. “Us care home yobs gotta stick together, innit.”

“只要你需要我，我就会一直回来。”他会一边忙碌一边高兴地说，“我们这些养老院的家伙得互相扶持。”

Remus didn’t believe him. Grant was being nice, but that could only last so long. Nobody stayed around forever.

Remus不相信他。Grant表现得很好，但这种好意只能持续一段时间。没有人会永远待在身边。

Chapter 176~ 180Chapter Summary

176. 1983 (2018-10-16)
177. 1985 (2018-10-19)
178. 1986 (2018-10-22)
179. 1987 (2018-10-25)
180. 1989 (2018-10-29)

Chapter 176: 1983These people 'round here

Wear beat down eyes sunk in smoke dried faces

They're resigned to what their fate is.

But not us, (no never) no not us (no never)

We are far too young and clever.

 

6th June 1983

“Sometimes I wonder if you’re using me.” Grant said, one afternoon in the summer of 1983.

“We all use each other.” Remus replied, dryly, “And that’s what we think love is.”

“Christ. Can’t talk to you when you’re like this.” Grant sighed heavily, reaching for a packet of cigarettes on the bedside table.

“Like what?”

“A gloomy git.”“一个阴郁的家伙。”

Grant pulled a long white cylinder from the box with his teeth, and Remus lit it with his wand point. Grant sucked on it appreciatively, settling back against Remus’s body, in the crook of his arm. Remus lazily stroked Grant’s collar bone until it was his turn to smoke. They’d almost given up; sharing a quick post-sex fag was their treat.

 

Grant用牙齿从盒子里抽出一根长白色香烟，Remus用魔杖点燃了它。Grant欣赏地吸了一口，靠在Remus的身体上，躺在他的手臂弯里。Remus懒洋洋地抚摸着Grant的锁骨，直到轮到他自己抽烟。他们几乎放弃了；共享一根快速的性爱后的烟是他们的小奖赏。

“Sorry.” Remus said, “I don’t mean to be gloomy.”

“Pfft.” Grant replied, cheerfully, “Be gloomy if you want, I’m only teasin' ya. ”

Grant made everything so easy. Remus could barely remember when their relationship had grown into what it was now.

...

It had started with the regular visits, after that first intervention. They’d grown more frequent, and eventually Grant was just there all the time - first he slept on the couch, and then he didn’t anymore, and it was never discussed again.

By midsummer 1982, he’d moved all of his belongings in - such that they were.

“I travel light,” he winked, shaking out a rucksack that contained a few clean pairs of underwear and some t-shirts. One sock. For god’s sake.“我旅行轻便，”他眨眼说道，摇了摇一个背包，里面只有几条干净的内裤和几件T恤。还有一只袜子。天哪。

“I’ll give you some money.” Remus said, monotonously. “You can go shopping.” He still had a few hundred pounds Sirius had converted to muggle money in case of emergencies. Remus didn’t feel guilty about spending it; it was just sitting there.“我会给你一些钱。”Remus单调地说，“你可以去购物。”他还有几百英镑是Sirius兑换的麻瓜货币，以备紧急情况。Remus对花这些钱不感到内疚；反正就那么放着。

“I’m not here to scrounge off you.” Grant insisted.

“我不是来向你乞讨的。”Grant坚持道。

“I know. But you need clothes.”

“Yes mum. I’ll borrow some of yours for a bit, ‘til I get myself sorted.”

“Fine.”

 

 

So Remus went to Debenhams by himself one afternoon and bought as much as he could in Grant’s size. Jeans and t-shirts and underwear and socks and jumpers, pyjamas and even a cheap pair of trainers that were on offer. Bright colours, because Grant was a bright person, and Remus had seen enough black to last a lifetime. He folded it all away in the chest of drawers. It felt good to fill them; they’d been standing half-empty for over a year.
于是，Remus在一个下午独自去了Debenhams，尽可能多地购买了适合Grant的衣物。包括牛仔裤、T恤、内裤、袜子、毛衣、睡衣，甚至还买了一双打折的便宜运动鞋。鲜艳的颜色，因为Grant是一个阳光的人，而Remus已经看够了黑色。他把所有东西都折好放进抽屉里。填满这些抽屉感觉很好；它们已经空了超过一年。

Grant wore the clothes, but they never discussed it.
Grant穿上了这些衣服，但他们从未讨论过这件事。

There were some things they could not avoid talking about, though.
不过，有些话题是他们无法避免讨论的。

Remus hadn’t been doing magic at all for the first few months—actually, he found that he couldn’t, a lot of the time; even when he tried. Perhaps the grief. All those funerals. It may have had more to do with his drinking, though he couldn’t be sure. There was a block there; like a wall had gone up. He could apparate for full moons, but that was the extent of it. Then one day, it just came back, as if it had never left him.
在最初的几个月里，Remus完全没有做魔法——实际上，他发现他很多时候都做不了魔法，即使他尝试过。也许是因为悲伤，所有那些葬礼。虽然他不确定，但这可能与他的饮酒有关。魔法似乎被封锁了；仿佛墙已经竖起来了。他能在满月时使用瞬移，但这就是极限了。然后有一天，它突然回来了，仿佛从未离开过他。

They’d forgotten to pay the electric, and the lights went dead. Without thinking, Remus lit his wand,
他们忘记付电费，灯光熄灭了。Remus毫不犹豫地点亮了他的魔杖，

“ Lumos .”

“What the bloody fuck is that?!” Grant leapt away as if Remus had set himself on fire.

“Er…” Remus swallowed, then resigned himself to it. “It’s a magic wand.”

“Are you high?”

Remus laughed, a gruff, alien sound.

“I think I’d better explain some stuff to you. The school I went to was a bit… different…”

He began to explain. He knew how weird it must all sound, and he had to leave quite a lot of stuff out. Almost twenty minutes later, Grant sat staring at him, face pale in the weakening wandlight.

“You’re having me on.” He laughed, nervously, “What are you playing at, making up a load of tosh like that?!”

“Grant… look...” Remus made sparks with his wand. He levitated the coffee table, and then - showing off, because it had been so long - transformed his mug into a frog.

“All right!” Grant recoiled, as the frog hopped onto the carpet, “Ok, I believe you! Jesus Christ!”

“Oh, just ‘Remus Lupin’ will do.” Remus stuck his tongue out.

Then he stopped, realised what he was doing.

He’d stopped hurting for a moment, and chastised himself viciously for it. Your friends are dead, and you’re doing magic tricks for some muggle? Pathetic.

He went to look in the cupboards for a drink.

“Oh no, don’t…” Grant said, sounding disappointed.

Remus returned to the couch with a bottle of vodka and two tumblers. He liked vodka the most, it went down easy.

“I don’t want any.” Grant said, ignoring the second glass. “I’m going to stop getting it for you.”

Remus shrugged and knocked back his first measure.

Grant sighed. “So you’re a wizard, eh? Does that mean… Sirius was a wizard, too?”

Remus nearly choked on his second shot, but got it down. His eyes watered and he nodded.

 

“Yeah. We all are. Were.”

And he drank more, and told Grant about the war. He left out some of the more painful details, but Grant was astute, and guessed the rest.

于是他喝得更多，把战争的事告诉了Grant。他省略了一些更痛苦的细节，但Grant很聪明，猜出了其余的部分。

“Is that where you vanish off to, every month?” Grant asked, “Some magic thing?”

“Oh… no. There’s something else.”

“Bloody hell, Remus, do I know anything about you?!”

“Sorry.” Remus said. “Honestly, I’m really not worth the effort… once you know everything, you’ll understand.”

“Try me.” Grant said.

So then they had the werewolf conversation. Remus explained what happened to him on full moons, and how dangerous he was, and where he went.

“Since you were five?!” Grant said, aghast.

“Yeah.” Remus nodded, nervously.

“You poor thing,” Grant shook his head, and stroked his hand. “You’ve had a rough go of it, ‘aven’t ya?”

Remus accepted the sympathy, and didn’t say too much about Castor, because he was ashamed of himself.

Not that Grant would have been jealous. Not like Sirius, not like… oh, oh no, no no no...

...

“Oi!”

Back in the present, Grant snapped his fingers. He held up the cigarette, half smoked. “Your turn, gorgeous.”

“Sorry.” Remus took it, and inhaled deeply. Ah. They were still in bed. Everything was ok. Everything is ok.

“You drifted away from me, there.” Grant commented, without accusation.
“你刚才有点疏远我。”Grant评论道，语气中没有指责。

“Sorry,” Remus said again.

“Penny for ‘em?”

“Oh, nothing. Just thinking.” He stubbed out the cigarette. Fucking hell he missed smoking.

“Well.” Grant rolled over, lying half on top of Remus, face centimetres away, “ That’s no good, is it? I was trying to stop you from thinking.”

“You do.” Remus smiled. They kissed, friendly at first, then deeper. Remus slid his hands up Grant’s long body. “Want to try again?”

Grant smiled against his lips,  murmuring,

“You just want another fag, doncha?”

“I want you , too…”

“Well, tough luck,” Grant pulled away, pushing himself off Remus, off the bed. “Last shift at the pub starts in forty minutes, already gonna have to leg it.”
“哎，真倒霉。”Grant拉开距离，推开Remus，从床上站起来。“最后一班在酒吧开始了，四十分钟后就得赶过去了。”

“Do you have to?” Remus flopped back on the bed, petulant.
“非得这样吗？”Remus倒在床上，带着些许撒娇。

 

“Oh, don’t whinge, princess, it's only one more evening. Oi, be good and stay off the booze and I’ll do something really nice when I get in.”
“别抱怨了，小公主，这只是一个晚上而已。喂，乖乖的，别喝酒，我回来后会做点真的很好的事情。”

“I’ll be asleep.”

“I’ll wake you up.”

Remus smirked. “Ok then.”

Grant made everything so easy.

He tried to stay off the drink that night, he really did. But he needed something , or else how would he ever sleep? And he definitely didn’t smoke, so that was pretty good. He wanted to be good, for Grant’s last night at the pub.

After getting three A-levels in Social Policy, Politics and Education, then studying for months for further exams, Grant had qualified as a social worker. He was beginning a placement at a boys remand centre the following week. Remus didn’t know where he got the balls for it.在获得社会政策、政治和教育三门A-level后，Grant经过几个月的进一步考试学习，终于成为了一名社会工作者。他下周将开始在一个男孩拘留中心实习。Remus不知道他从哪里获得了这样的勇气。

“It’ll be like doing St Edmunds all over again!”

“No it won’t,” Grant smiled, “It’ll be different, because I’ll make it different.”

* * *

 

They were pretty happy together. They had their moments, anyway, but they were always friends before lovers and neither of them were faithful.

Grant had plenty of other boyfriends in his never-ending quest for variety. They might be arty types, with long hair and camp affectations. Or earnest, political sorts, in baggy khaki fatigues and thick knitted jumpers, campaigning for nuclear disarmament or gay and lesbian rights, or the miners or something. Remus watched them come and go with a distant interest. He didn’t begrudge Grant – he knew he was hardly a barrel of laughs to be with.
Grant在他永无止境的寻求多样性的过程中，有许多其他的男朋友。他们可能是有长发和夸张举止的艺术家类型。或者是认真政治型的，穿着宽松的卡其布军裤和厚毛衣，为核裁军、同性恋权益、矿工或其他某些事情而奔走。Remus对他们的来去只是冷漠地关注，他并不怨恨Grant——他知道自己和他在一起也不容易。

Remus himself had become excellent at dividing his life up into neat segments with razor-sharp edges. Castor was a bad habit; Grant was everything else. Then there was Sirius’s spectre, looming over the whole thing, making sure he was never really happy with either of them.
Remus自己已经非常擅长将生活分成清晰的部分。Castor是一个坏习惯；Grant则是其他所有的一切。然后就是Sirius的幽灵，笼罩在一切之上，确保他永远不会真正对他们中的任何一个感到快乐。

“You could stay, brother,” Castor said, every time.
“你可以留下，兄弟，”Castor每次都这样说。

 

“Can you not call me ‘brother’ right after you’ve been fucking me?” Remus snapped. He was often rude to Castor, and Castor was rough with him right back. Remus wasn’t sure if it was a wolf thing or a self-punishment thing, but he tried not to analyse the arrangement too much.
“你能不能在刚刚和我做完后不要叫我‘兄弟’？”Remus怒斥道。他经常对Castor无礼，而Castor则同样粗暴地回应他。Remus不确定这是否是狼的习性还是自我惩罚，但他尽量不去过多分析这种安排。

“Remus Lupin, then.” Castor replied.

“It’s just Remus .” He grunted, getting up to dress himself. “And you know I can’t stay. I’ve got a life back in England.”

“You say that,” Castor raised an eyebrow, “But I see no evidence. We would care for you here.”

“I don’t trust any of you as far as I could throw you.” Remus said flatly, buttoning up his jeans.

“And yet you return each month…”

“Yeah, well, that’s just for this,” Remus gestured at Castor’s naked body, reclining back on grey furs - he was absolutely perfect in every way, a Greek statue, lithe and muscular and delicious. “Let’s not start pretending we like each other.”
“嗯，好吧，这只是为了这个，”Remus指了指Castor裸露的身体，他躺在灰色的皮毛上——他在各方面都是完美的，就像一尊希腊雕像，柔韧、肌肉发达、诱人。“别开始假装我们喜欢彼此。”

“But we are your pack!” Castor protested.
“但我们是你的狼群！”Castor抗议道。

 

“Look, I’ll stop coming at all, if you don’t leave off.” Remus gritted his teeth. He did stop going, for two months after that, just to make Castor suffer.
“听着，如果你不停止，我会完全不来。”Remus咬紧牙关说道。他确实停止去了两个月，只是为了让Castor受苦。

Remus didn’t need a pack, and he certainly didn’t need friends.

Sometimes Mary tried to get in touch, sometimes he let her. But it was hard, so very hard. He preferred Grant, and their modest muggleish life together.

And really, though their life was not one Remus had ever imagined living, it was hardly empty. Remus took up various odd jobs - cleaning, mostly; or courier work快遞, because it was cash-in-hand no one cared if he stopped showing up.

Grant studied for his licence and always had students around, debating in the living room, preparing for another protest against Poll Tax or for nuclear disarmament. They made a huge mess of the living room painting banners and nailing together placards, but Remus didn’t mind a bit of chaos.

 

He liked the girls Grant invited over better than he liked the boys - they were all so vibrant, so passionate, with punky green hair and boyish, mischievous attitudes. He didn't care much for the causes, but the conversation was always lively. At times he felt he was speaking to Mary, or Marlene, or Lily. Then he would slow down, and he’d need a drink. He would stand quietly in the kitchen until they all left.

“Oh, Remus. You can’t just wander off and get pissed every time you’re sad.” Grant sighed one night, when he found Remus slumped over the kitchen table, hours after everyone had left.
“哦，Remus。你不能每次伤心的时候就走开喝酒。”Grant叹了口气，有一天晚上，他发现Remus瘫倒在厨房的桌子上，大家都离开好几个小时了。

“I am sad.” Remus sobbed.

“I know you are mate,” Grant bent down and pulled Remus’s arm over his shoulder, hoisting him up towards bed. “And you’re allowed to be sad. It's the drink we’ve got the problem with, eh?”

“No one owes you a happy life." Remus mournfully parroted Matron’s old adage as they swayed down the hall together.

 

"No," Grant huffed, setting him into bed. He looked down at Remus pityingly, "But you owe yourself one, love.”

Notes: 

Song at the beginning is 'Come on Eileen' by Dexys Midnight Runners.

British dictionary:
- Debenhams - National chain of department stores. Every mum's favourite.
- Trainers - Sneakers/tennis shoes/runners/kicks
- 'Penny for 'em?' - Penny for your thoughts (i.e. 'tell me what you're thinking').
- Boys' Remand Centre - Criminal detention centre for boys under 17.
- Poll Tax - Brought in by Margaret Thatcher and the Conservative government in the '80s, this tax paid for Local Government (now called 'Council Tax'). Before 1979, this was paid by each household based on the market rental value of the property. The Poll Tax was a flat rate per person - meaning that the burden of payment shifted from wealthy home owners to poor renters. It was massively unfair and resulted in nationwide protests and rioting.

As I mentioned (on tumblr maybe?) as long as my mood stays like this, I'm hoping to crack out a chapter every day now until we're done. Approx. ten days :)

 

Chapter 177: 1985 

 I've been loving you a long time;

Down all the years, down all the days.

And I've cried for all your troubles,

Smiled at your funny little ways.

We watched our friends grow up together

And we saw them as they fell.

Some of them fell into heaven,

Some of them fell into hell.

 Remus liked a lot of things about Grant. His smile, his corkscrew blond curls, his brash, unapologetic sense of humour. Grant was a likeable person. But there was one thing Remus absolutely refused to tolerate.

Remus喜欢Grant的很多方面。他的笑容，他那卷曲的金发，他那无所畏惧的幽默感。Grant是个可爱的人。但是有一件事，Remus绝对无法容忍。

Grant loved football. He wasn’t a fanatic, but he definitely had more of an interest than Remus really felt was necessary. He supported Queens Park Rangers - and even bought himself a knock-off kit t-shirt one year, plus the blue and white striped scarf. Never one to simply observe, Grant was an occasional gambler too, and on Saturdays he played on a gay men’s team away down in South London.
Grant非常喜欢足球。他不是一个狂热者，但他对足球的兴趣远超了Remus觉得必要的程度。他支持Queens Park Rangers，甚至还买过一件假冒的队服T恤，加上蓝白条纹的围巾。Grant从不只是旁观者，他偶尔还会赌博，每到周六，他会在南伦敦的一个同性恋男子足球队比赛。

That was how he met Neil Newman - a tall, good looking football player with spiky hair and thighs you could crack walnuts on - and how Remus met Anthea Luong; Neil’s part-time girlfriend.
这就是他认识Neil Newman的方式——一个高大、英俊的足球运动员，头发蓬松，腿部肌肉强壮得可以用来砸核桃——也是Remus认识Anthea Luong的方式；Neil的兼职女友。

“Part-time?!” Remus raised an eyebrow when Grant explained. He was tying up his boot laces, ready to go for practice one Saturday and Neil was coming to pick him up.
“兼职？！”当Grant解释时，Remus挑了挑眉。他正在系鞋带，准备去练习，一周六的时候，Neil来接他。

“It’s not that unusual,” Grant winked at him, Remus took the point.

“But if Neil’s queer --” Remus tried. Grant lifted a finger,

“Get with the times, sunshine - queer’s out. We are Gay Men, and we are proud.”

Remus rolled his eyes, “Whatever. If Neil’s a Gay Man , then how does Anthea fit in?”

“I reckon he must be bicentennial.”

“You mean bisexual.” Remus corrected.

“No, he’s two hundred years old,” Grant poked his tongue out. “Yes, Mr Literal, bisexual .”

Remus couldn’t really blame Neil for that, once he’d met her too. Anthea was a very attractive girl. She was tiny and springy, with long satin black hair and glittering eyes. Her mouth was like a rosebud, and she had the most beautiful skin Remus had ever seen. She dressed like Cindy Lauper, all frills and dayglo.
Remus在见到她之后，也不能真的责怪Neil。Anthea是个非常迷人的女孩。她身材娇小而灵活，长长的黑色缎发，眼睛闪闪发光。她的嘴巴像一个花蕾，她拥有Remus见过的最美丽的皮肤。她穿着像Cindy Lauper那样，满是荷叶边和亮眼的色彩。

“So nice to meet you,” she grinned, stretching up on her tiptoes to kiss Remus’s cheek in greeting. Neil just gave him a slightly wary nod - Remus was used to that, from Grant’s paramours.
“很高兴见到你，”她咧嘴一笑，踮起脚尖亲吻了Remus的脸颊。Neil只是给了他一个略带警惕的点头——Remus已经习惯了，来自Grant的情人们。

“Tea, everybody?” Grant offered.

“Nah, we’d better get going.” Neil said, rather pointedly, Remus thought. “Want to get there early, don’t we? Warm up.”

“Is that what you call it?” Anthea stuck her tongue out at him. “Remus, can I stay here with you? I’ve got so much I want to talk to you about.”

“You have?!” He stared at her, alarmed. He hadn’t even known Neil had a girlfriend until ten minutes ago.

“Oh yeah, I told Anth here how good you are at astrology.” Grant said cheerfully, pulling his denim jacket on. It looked silly, in shorts and long socks, but everything football related was ridiculous to Remus.
“哦，对了，我告诉Anthea你在占星术方面很厉害。”Grant兴高采烈地说道，穿上了他的牛仔夹克。在短裤和长袜的搭配下看起来有点傻，但对于Remus来说，所有与足球相关的东西都是可笑的。

“Astro nomy .” Remus said, “Very different things…”
“是‘天文学’。”Remus说道，“这完全是两回事……”

“S’all stars and that, innit?”
“都是星星什么的，不是吗？”

“Well…” he didn’t really have an argument.
“嗯……”他确实没有什么反驳的理由。

“See you lads! Have fun!” Anthea waved at them both, pushing them out of the door. Suddenly Remus was alone with a strange young woman, with no idea why. He really wanted a drink.
“再见了，伙计们！玩得开心！”Anthea向他们俩挥手，把他们推出了门。突然间，Remus和一个陌生的年轻女子独处，他不知道为什么。 他真的很想喝酒。

“You don’t have a TV.” She said, flatly.
“你没有电视。”她平淡地说道。

“No.” Remus agreed.
“没有。”Remus同意道。

“Great flat, though!” She was saying, walking around the room, looking out of the window, pulling books off the shelf and scanning the covers, “So nice you live in Chinatown - do you speak Chinese?”
“不过这个公寓真不错！”她一边说，一边在房间里走来走去，望向窗外，抽出书架上的书，翻看封面，“你住在中国城真好——你会说中文吗？”

“Er… no…?”
“呃……不会……？”

“I do, I speak three languages, actually, Chinese, Vietnamese and English. English is my mother tongue, Vietnamese is my mother’s tongue, if you get me.” she winked at him, “And Neil always says I ought to say I speak four languages, because I chat so much shit.” She laughed - it was a bit of an ugly, jangly laugh, like coins falling on sheet metal, but she laughed with such conviction that it was endearing anyway.
“我会的，其实我会说三种语言，中文、越南语和英语。英语是我的母语，越南语是我妈妈的母语，你懂我的意思。”她对Remus眨了眨眼，“Neil总是说我应该说我会四种语言，因为我总是唠叨。”她笑了——这笑声有点刺耳，像硬币落在铁板上，但她的笑容如此真诚，仍然让人觉得可爱。

“Right.” Remus nodded. “Er… sorry, did you want to know something about astronomy?”

“Maybe. I’m a Virgo, what are you?”

“Uhh… Pisces, I think?”

“Do they go together?” She asked. He blinked,

“No. I mean, I don’t know. I mean… like I said, that’s really astrology, not--”

“Neil’s a capricorn, and they don’t go with virgos, I checked. I always check. But, y’know, the heart wants what it wants. You know they’re shagging?” she said, out of nowhere, “Him and Grant?”

“I guessed…”

“Do you mind it? You’re Grant’s live in, aren’t you?”

Remus nodded, though he privately corrected her - Grant was his live in, not the other way around. “We’re pretty casual, though.”

“Oh that’s good,” she nodded, earnestly.

“Look, um… how long are you staying?” Remus scratched his head awkwardly.

“Just til the boys get back from footie,” she smiled, “That's ok, isn’t it? Grant said you’d like the company. Ooh, I tell you what, I’d love a cup of tea.”

“就等那些男孩从足球训练回来，”她微笑着说，“这没问题吧？Grant说你会喜欢有陪伴。我跟你说，我很想喝杯茶。”

“Um. Ok…” He went to put the kettle on, still confused. What was Grant playing at, leaving him to babysit his lover’s girlfriend?! As if Remus had nothing better to do on a Saturday. He’d planned to read the paper. Maybe catch up with the Archers on the radio.
“嗯，好吧……”他去把水壶放上，仍然感到困惑。Grant是什么意思，把他留在这里照看他情人的女朋友？！就好像Remus在周六没有更好的事情可做一样。他原本计划读报纸，也许还要听听广播剧《The Archers》。

“No sugar, no milk!” Anthea called. “Oooh, can I put a record on?”

“If you like…”

She put on a Queen album. Remus sighed to himself. He wasn’t a fan, really, but Grant couldn’t get enough.

When he brought the tea through, Anthea was sitting on the couch, leaning over the coffee table rolling a joint. She grinned at him, “Fancy it?”

“Go on then,” Remus agreed. Well, that was better than nothing.

They smoked and drank tea and listened to Queen, and Anthea rabbited on, asking all sorts.

“Grant says you're really clever, private school and everything.”

“Yeah.” Remus shrugged.

“And you know all about constellations, and things like that. Hey, I can read your tarot cards, if you like?”

“No thanks.”

“How come you’ve got all those scars?”  

He blinked, caught off guard. She was still smiling prettily, and seemed genuinely curious about him.

“Just got a lot of scars.” He said, swallowing. “Do you fancy a gin and tonic?” He didn’t actually have tonic, but he could pretend he’d just forgotten and take it neat.

“Yeah, why not,” she nodded brightly. He got up, and she followed him into the kitchen, still talking, “You're not ill or anything, then?”

“No.” Remus said. “I got them fighting. Some of them I did myself.”

“Oh you poor thing.” She said, her sympathy genuine. She leaned forward and squeezed his arm kindly. “Sorry to ask, love, you just can’t be too careful, nowadays, do you know what I mean?”

“Mm.” He poured the gin into two tumblers. He did know exactly what she meant, and he didn’t want to talk about it. Or think about it.

She didn’t complain when he handed her a tumbler of straight gin, just clicked their glasses together and beamed, “Cheers!” then took a good gulp.

They went back to the couch. Remus took the bottle.

“You’re ever so tall, Remus. What are you, six three?”

“Six two.”

“I love tall men.” She purred.

“Me too.”

Anthea laughed again at that, her plastic earrings clicking together. She chatted even more, telling him silly, nonsense things about herself; where she’d been to school, her favourite songs on the radio, every film she’d ever seen at the pictures. “And I love a bit of dancing, too, that's how I met Neil, dancing down in Vauxhall. Shall I show you? Ok, you have to picture me in this sparkly purple dress, right? And my hair was shorter then.”

She got up and began to dance to the record.

Ooh love,

Ooh loverboy

What're you doin' tonight, hey boy

Set my alarm, turn on my charm

That's because I'm a good old-fashioned lover boy

Remus didn’t need to picture the sparkly dress; she was a very good dancer. She twisted and wriggled with sensual energy, throwing flirtatious looks at him and flicking her hips. Stoned and relaxed, Remus slouched on the sofa watching her. She was dreamlike, pretty and graceful, but also overwhelmingly and unignorably real. Remus wondered why he always ended up stuck with chatterboxes, and why on earth he liked it so much.
Remus不需要想象那条闪闪发光的裙子；她是一个非常好的舞者。她扭动着身体，充满了感性的能量，向他抛出调皮的目光，摇摆着臀部。沉醉于麻醉药和放松中，Remus倚靠在沙发上看着她。她如同梦境般美丽而优雅，但也压倒性地、无法忽视地真实。Remus想知道为什么他总是被那些喋喋不休的人困住，以及为什么他竟然如此喜欢这种感觉。

The song ended, and she held her arms aloft like a gymnast who had just completed a perfect routine. Remus smiled, despite himself, and applauded.
歌曲结束时，她高举双臂，像刚完成完美体操动作的体操运动员一样。Remus虽然不情愿，但还是微笑了，并鼓掌。

“Fancy a dance?” She fluttered her eyelashes flirtatiously. Remus couldn’t help it; whatever she had rolled him was stronger than he was used to, and he was charmed by her.
“想跳舞吗？”她调皮地眨了眨眼。Remus忍不住了；无论她给他卷的是什么，比他习惯的更强烈，他被她迷住了。

“Go on, then.”
“那就跳吧。”

He didn’t really dance, but he held her hands as she did, twirling her in the right places, and letting her fall into his arms, giggling. She had the most delicate wrists, the bones fine like a bird's.
他其实并不真正跳舞，但他握住她的手，让她在合适的地方旋转，并让她跌进他的怀抱中，咯咯笑着。她的手腕非常细腻，骨头像鸟儿一样纤细。

When they finally collapsed on the couch to smoke another joint, she kicked off her shoes and laid her legs over his lap. Grant did that sometimes; they only had the one sofa, so it was the only way to stretch out.
当他们最后倒在沙发上抽另一支大麻烟时，她脱掉了鞋子，把腿搭在他的腿上。Grant有时候也这样做；他们只有一张沙发，所以这是唯一可以伸展的方式。

“You’re very handsome, Remus.” She said through the smoke.
“你很帅，Remus。”她在烟雾中说道。

“Ha.” He replied, knocking back the last of his gin. He couldn’t pour any more without pushing her legs off, and he didn’t want to do that, so he settled for the joint.
“哈。”他回答道，喝下最后一杯金酒。他不能再倒酒而不把她的腿推开，而他不想那样做，所以他拿起了大麻烟。

“You are. You’re very sexy.”
“你确实很性感。”

“Shh.” He chuckled. “Who do you think you are? Showing up in my flat unannounced and interrogating me.”
“嘘。”他笑了，“你以为你是谁？不请自来地出现在我家，还盘问我。”

“Am I interrogating you?” She widened her eyes, “Are you succumbing to my techniques?”
“我在盘问你吗？”她睁大了眼睛，“你在屈服于我的技巧吗？”

Remus laughed, creasing over, his hands on her legs—they were so smooth and soft. She was giggling too, watching him. Her eyes were so dark and so full of life. He wanted her. Remus realized it all of a sudden, like a light being turned on—the room was brighter, her face clearer. Bloody hell.
Remus笑了，身体弯曲着，手放在她的腿上——它们如此光滑柔软。她也在咯咯笑，注视着他。她的眼睛非常深邃而充满生气。他想要她。Remus突然意识到，就像灯光被打开了——房间变得更亮，她的脸也更清晰了。见鬼。

He finished the joint. She wriggled down on the couch and closed her eyes contentedly. He left his hands on her legs—just resting there, he didn’t want to grab her or anything awful like that. He just wanted… what? What did you do with a girl? Mary was almost a decade ago, and it wasn’t as if Remus had really played much of a role there. He’d mostly just felt surprised she had picked him.
他抽完了大麻烟。她在沙发上蜷缩下来，满意地闭上了眼睛。他把手放在她的腿上——只是放着，他不想抓她或做其他可怕的事。他只是想要……什么？你和女孩做什么？Mary的事情几乎发生在十年前，而Remus并没有真正发挥过多作用。他大多只是感到惊讶她会选择他。

 

He felt like that now, too, as Anthea opened her eyes and smiled at him again.
现在他也有这种感觉，Anthea再次睁开眼睛，对他微笑。

“Sorry, did you want to lie down too?”

“What?” Remus’s back prickled, alarmed. We're they really going to?! “No! I mean… er…”

“You’re so lovely,” she grinned, shifting aside and pulling him down beside her, “Let’s just lie together for a bit, it's nice, isn’t it?”

“Mm…”

She put her arm across him. Her soft black hair tickled under his nose, and he couldn’t help but inhale her scent. It was warm and sort of spicy, like clove or cinnamon. He liked it. They lay for a bit, like that. The record had finished, and was just turning on its needle, crackling.
她把手臂搭在他身上。她柔软的黑发在他的鼻子下轻轻痒痒，他忍不住吸入她的香气。那种香气温暖而带有些许香料味，像丁香或肉桂。他喜欢这种味道。他们就这样躺了一会儿。唱片已经结束，正转动在唱针上，发出噼啪声。

“What do you think Neil and Grant are doing now?” Anthea whispered, her hand suddenly on his belt, palm flat against his crotch. “Probably in the showers, do you reckon?”
“你觉得Neil和Grant现在在干什么？”Anthea低声问，她的手突然放在他的腰带上，手掌平贴在他的裆部。“你认为他们可能在洗澡吗？”

“Um.” Remus said, speechless.
“嗯。”Remus说，语塞。

“You ought to see Neil with his kit off, he’s an Adonis. I mean, he’s a dickhead, but you can forget all about it when he gets going - I bet they’re all sweaty, and muddy from the pitch.”
“你应该看看Neil脱掉衣服的样子，他是个阿多尼斯。我的意思是，他是个混蛋，但当他兴奋的时候你会忘记这一切——我敢打赌他们都满身汗水，满是泥巴。”

Remus tried to regulate his breathing, but she kept moving her hand, and he was finding it hard to concentrate on anything else. Finally she looked up at him, and kissed his lips very tenderly. “Do you fancy it?”
Remus试图调整呼吸，但她不断移动手，导致他难以集中注意力。最后她抬头看着他，轻轻吻了吻他的嘴唇。“你想要吗？”

“Yeah,” Remus breathed, “Go on, then.”
“嗯，”Remus喘息道，“那就来吧。”

Anthea was in the shower, two hours later, when Grant and Neil walked in the door. Remus was still sprawled on the couch in his underpants, flushed and completely stunned.
两小时后，当Grant和Neil走进门时，Anthea正在洗澡。Remus仍然穿着内裤，趴在沙发上，脸红且完全震惊。

Grant did a double take, and then burst out laughing. Neil looked appalled. He marched into the bathroom and demanded Anthea get out at once.
Grant惊讶地瞪了一眼，然后大笑了起来。Neil看起来震惊不已。他直奔浴室，要求Anthea立刻出来。

“You slag!” Grant wheezed at Remus, doubled over laughing.
“你个贱人！”Grant对着Remus喘息道，笑得弯下了腰。

“Bye Grant, bye Remus!” Anthea called as she and Neil hurried out. He had a face like thunder, and the door slammed hard behind them.
“再见Grant，再见Remus！”Anthea一边叫道，一边和Neil匆忙离开。他的脸色阴沉，门在他们身后猛地关上了。

“Well then.” Grant said, composing himself. “I hope your girlfriend hasn’t used up all the hot water.”
“那好吧。”Grant说，整理好自己的状态。“我希望你的女朋友没用完所有热水。”

“I really don’t know why that happened.” Remus said, pulling his t-shirt on. “We were just listening to records, and she was talking, and then…”
“我真的不知道为什么会发生那种事。”Remus说，穿上他的T恤。“我们只是听唱片，她在说话，然后……”

“What, it was the only way to shut her up?”
“什么，只有这样才能让她闭嘴吗？”

Remus looked up at him sheepishly, “Believe it or not, it didn’t shut her up.”
Remus腼腆地抬头看着他，“信不信由你，这没能让她闭嘴。”

It took Grant almost ten full minutes to pull himself together.
Grant花了差不多十分钟才重新镇定下来。

* * *

They got a TV, a few weeks after that - Grant joked that if Remus was so bored he’d resorted to shagging girls, then they’d better bring in some entertainment for him. He didn’t see Anthea again, which was a pity, because to be honest, Remus wouldn’t have minded making that a regular thing. Once you got used to all the talking, she was very sexy. He didn’t think about what it meant too much, and Grant didn’t push it.

The TV came second hand - neither of them had enough disposable income for a brand new one. They got it free off a friend of Grant’s, on the condition that they picked it up themselves. It was only two streets over, but that still presented something of a problem.

“Can’t you… hover it home, or something?” Grant asked, hands on his hips as they stared down at the big, bulky TV set on the pavement. “Do a spell.”

“It’s against the law.” Remus explained. “In public, anyway. Or in front of mugg--you.”

“Pfft.” Grant raised a hand to push his hair out of his sweaty face. “Bugger. Knew I ought to learn how to drive.”

The door of the building opened, and a man walked out, looking flushed and shifty. That was the third man Remus had seen with exactly the same furtive look.

“What is this place, anyway?!” He asked, peering up at the building. It looked like all the others - maybe a bit shabby. There was no outward signage.

“Sauna,” Grant said, squatting down to see if he could get his arms around the set. He could, but there was no way he could lift the thing.

“Sauna?” Remus scratched his head.

“You know, a bath house. Where men can be alone together and get all sweaty.”

“Oh!” Remus gaped, embarrassed.

“Christ Remus, we do live in Soho.”

“I know! I just… anyway, don’t lift it like that, you’ll do your back in. Come on, take that end, I’ll take this… one, two, three, up…”

They got it back in about thirty minutes, only taking one break. Remus was really doing most of the carrying, but he didn’t mind; they’d picked a day between the moons and he was feeling pretty healthy.

Luckily, Grant was a dab hand at the electrical side, and managed to hook everything up once the TV was actually in the living room. It looked weird; a big black plastic cube, taking up all the space. They ended up putting it on a box in front of the fireplace, which they never used anyway. The aerial wasn’t brilliant, and needed a bit of electrical tape to keep it upright, but once they switched the thing on, and the fuzzy picture came into view, they were both hooked.
幸运的是，Grant对电器方面很在行，一旦电视机真正放进客厅，他就能成功接上所有的线。它看起来很奇怪；一个大黑色塑料方块，占据了所有的空间。他们最终把它放在了壁炉前的一个箱子上，反正他们也从未用过那个壁炉。天线效果不好，需要一些电工胶带来支撑，但一旦他们打开电视，模糊的画面显现出来时，他们俩都被吸引住了。

Remus, who hadn’t watched any telly in years, was a complete addict that summer. He got hooked on soaps - EastEnders, Brookside and Coronation Street, but he’d watch anything; debates in the house of commons, snooker championships, comedy, documentaries, top of the tops, and even a horrifically upsetting series called Threads, about the threat of nuclear war.
Remus在那年夏天完全变成了电视迷，他多年未看电视，这一夏天却成了完全的上瘾者。他迷上了肥皂剧——《东区人》、《布鲁克赛德》和《科罗纳街》，但他什么都看；下议院辩论、台球锦标赛、喜剧、纪录片、《顶尖榜单》，甚至还有一部令人极度不安的系列剧《Threads》，讲述了核战争的威胁。

The TV went on first thing in the morning as he pottered around the flat getting dressed or brushing his teeth, and more often than not he fell asleep in front of it in the evenings. Grant started calling the set ‘the other man’.
每天早晨，他一边打理公寓，一边穿衣服或刷牙，电视机就开着。晚上，他经常在电视机前睡着。Grant开始称这台电视为“另一个男人”。

“I just like the noise,” Remus said, “For company.”
“我只是喜欢有点声音，”Remus说，“有伴。”

“You could try making some real friends…” Grant suggested. Remus dismissed this. He didn’t need friends; he had everything he needed.
“你可以试着交些真正的朋友……”Grant建议道。Remus不以为意。他不需要朋友；他有他需要的一切。

One Sunday afternoon they were both in the living room. Remus had to leave for a cleaning job which started at 3am, so he had been sleeping most of the day. Grant was reading the paper, and Remus’s legs were across his lap. With his free hand, Grant was absent-mindedly rubbing the arch of Remus’s left foot, which was making Remus sleepy and dozy again.
一个星期天下午，他们俩都在客厅。Remus需要去打扫一个凌晨3点开始的工作，所以他几乎整天都在睡觉。Grant在看报纸，Remus的腿搭在他的膝盖上。Grant用另一只手心不在焉地揉着Remus的左脚弓，这让Remus再次感到困倦和昏昏欲睡。

The News had just finished, and they were waiting for the weather when suddenly, sinister music began playing.
新闻刚结束，他们在等天气预报时，突然播放了阴森的音乐。

"There is now a danger that has become a threat to us all," the television said ominously. "It is a deadly disease and there is no known cure..."
“现在有一种危险已成为对我们所有人的威胁，”电视 ominously地说。“这是一种致命的疾病，目前没有已知的治疗方法……”

Grant and Remus both looked up to watch the creepy announcement. A word etched onto a blackened gravestone - AIDS.
Grant和Remus都抬头看着这个恐怖的公告。一个词刻在黑暗的墓碑上——艾滋病（AIDS）。

"Don't die of ignorance!" The voiceover intoned.
“不要因无知而死！”旁白声中带着庄重的语调。

A familiar sense of shame and anxiety rushed through Remus, a sickly mix of emotion he hadn’t felt since school. He pulled his feet off Grant, drawing his knees up to his chest. He felt dirty; untouchable.
一种熟悉的羞耻和焦虑感涌上Remus的心头，是一种自学校以来未曾感受过的病态情绪。他把脚从Grant身上拿开，把膝盖收拢到胸前。他感到脏；不可接触。

“Christ.” Grant said, his voice hollow, signalling to Remus that he was feeling exactly the same way. “S'enough to make ya give up on shagging altogether, innit.” He shook his head.
“天啊。”Grant说道，声音空洞，向Remus表明他有相同的感受。“这足以让你完全放弃做爱的欲望，不是吗？”他摇了摇头。

Remus bit his lip.
Remus咬了咬嘴唇。

"You’re being safe, aren't you?" He asked tentatively.
“你很安全，对吧？”他小心翼翼地问道。

"Yeah, obviously." Grant nodded, brusquely.
“嗯，很明显。”Grant粗鲁地点了点头。

Remus looked up at him, twisting his mouth. He hated bringing up Grant’s other liaisons, and Grant was always very discreet about it. Not guilty, or secretive, but discreet. Still, Remus wanted to be as sure as he could.
Remus抬头看着他，扭动着嘴角。他讨厌提及Grant的其他恋情，而Grant总是非常谨慎。不是内疚或秘密，而是谨慎。不过，Remus还是想尽可能确定。

"Good. I mean, you're using..."

Grant stood up, hands on his hips, clearly annoyed.

"Yes, Remus, when I fuck other men I make sure there are condoms handy."

"Sorry." Remus blushed, looking down at his hands. "It's none of my business."

"Right. It’s not." Grant snapped, agitated, and went into the kitchen.對啊。不是的。”格蘭特怒氣沖沖地走進廚房。

Remus heard him fill the kettle and then flick it on, then he smelled cigarette smoke. He ran his fingers through his hair, flustered, and called through the wall;“

萊姆斯聽到他把水壺裝滿，然後打開，然後他聞到了煙味。他用手指梳理著頭髮，心慌意亂，隔著牆喊道；

"I just… you know I couldn't bear it, if I didn't have you."

Quiet. Footsteps.

“What about you?” Grant asked, reappearing.

“Me?!” Remus blinked.

Grant folded his arms, leaning in the doorframe.

“Don’t treat me like an idiot, I know I’m not your one and only. And it wasn’t just Anth, neither. Whoever you see, when you go off every month. When you’re… when you’re not yourself.”

Remus stared at him, his mouth dry. He blinked again, and nodded.

“I’ll be safe.”

“Couldn’t do without you either.” Grant said, ruffling Remus’s hair. “Insensitive wanker. Cup of tea?”
“我也离不开你。”Grant说着，揉了揉Remus的头发。“没感觉的混蛋。要杯茶吗？”

Remus nodded, glad they weren’t fighting, but troubled all the same. Grant was quite right, of course. Remus had never given protection a second thought with Castor. Could wizards get it? If they could, then was there a magical cure? Remus had seen pictures of AIDS sufferers from America; skeletal men in hospital beds. He shuddered.
Remus点了点头，庆幸他们没有争吵，但心里仍然感到困扰。Grant说得对，当然。Remus从未考虑过和Castor一起时使用保护措施。巫师会得这种病吗？如果会，那么是否有魔法治疗方法？Remus见过来自美国的艾滋病患者的照片；瘦骨嶙峋的病人躺在医院的病床上。他打了个寒颤。

Grant came back through with two cups of tea. He handed one to Remus, then sat down beside him, crossed his legs and raised the mug to his lips, blowing on it. He sipped, and then looked up, thoughtfully. “I could stop.”
Grant拿着两杯茶回来。他递给Remus一杯，然后坐在他旁边，双腿交叉，把杯子凑到嘴边，吹了吹。他啜了一口，然后若有所思地抬起头。“我可以停下来。”

“Eh?” Remus blinked, lost in his own thoughts.
“嗯？”Remus眨了眨眼，陷入了自己的思绪中。

“I could stop seeing other people.” Grant repeated patiently. “If you wanted me to, I mean. All you have to do is ask.”
“我可以停止见其他人。”Grant耐心地重复道。“如果你希望我这样做的话。我只需要你告诉我。”

“I don’t want to tell you what you can and can’t--”
“我不想告诉你你可以和不能……”

“Remus.” Grant raised an eyebrow, “I’ve been living here for four years. You’re a right dickhead sometimes, but you make me happy.”
“Remus。”Grant扬起眉毛，“我在这里住了四年。你有时候真是个混蛋，但你让我快乐。”

Remus was staring at the carpet, now, trying not to panic.
Remus此时盯着地毯，试图不让自己恐慌。

Grant set down his tea, and reached over to touch Remus’s hand, “I don’t need anyone but you.” He said, sincerely.
Grant放下茶杯，伸手触碰Remus的手，“我只需要你。”他说，真诚地。

“Grant, I…”
“Grant，我……”

“I know, I know,” Grant put a hand up, “I’m not expecting you to say it back, it’s ok. I know how you feel, and that’s enough.”
“我知道，我知道，”Grant举起一只手，“我不指望你回应，这没关系。我知道你的感受，这就足够了。”

Remus inhaled sharply and closed his eyes. He exhaled slowly, and willed his heart to slow down. It was a lovely thing to hear. He had never for a moment expected to feel this way again - or for it to be so very different from the last time.
Remus深吸了一口气，闭上了眼睛。他慢慢地呼出气息，努力让自己的心跳平静下来。这是一件美妙的事情。他从未预料到会再次有这样的感觉——或者它会与上一次有如此大的不同。

“Ok.” He breathed.

“Ok?” Grant cocked his head.

“Ok,” Remus nodded, “I’d rather you didn’t see anyone else.”

“Deal.”

 

Chapter 178: 1986 

Time up and time out for all the liberties you've taken

Time up and time out for all the friends that you've forsaken

And if you choose to waste away like death is back in fashion

You're an accident waiting to happen

 

My sins are so unoriginal.

I have all the self loathing of a wolf in sheep's clothing

In this carnival of carnivores, heaven help me.

 

Goodbye and good luck to all the promises you've broken

Goodbye and good luck to all the rubbish that you've spoken

Your life has lost its dignity, its beauty and its passion

You're an accident waiting to happen

 

Things were different, of course, after Remus and Grant agreed to remain monogamous. They were still best friends, they still made each other laugh and irritated each other beyond belief, but a fresh new closeness had developed too. Remus drank less for a while - he didn’t stop altogether, and some days were very hard, some days he didn’t wash, or get out of bed, or eat. But not every day; and that was progress.

Castor didn’t take it well. In fact, he was furious. Remus even tried to explain HIV to him, but it was no good. Castor had grown so far away from humanity, he was even starting to look wolfish. His hair was thicker, blacker somehow, and extended down past the nape of his neck, creeping along his spine. His teeth were lengthening, his eyes sharper, the irises turning yellow.
Castor对此反应不好。实际上，他非常愤怒。Remus甚至试图向他解释HIV，但无济于事。Castor与人性的距离越来越远，他甚至开始看起来像狼。他的头发变得更厚、更黑，延伸到颈背以下，沿着脊柱蔓延。他的牙齿变长了，眼睛变得更锐利，虹膜变成了黄色。

“You are turning your back on your family, Remus Lupin.” He snarled. “Even your magic grows weaker.”
“你正在背弃你的家人，Remus Lupin。”他咆哮道。“即使你的魔法也变得更弱了。”

“I’m not turning my back on anything.” Remus insisted, “I’m trying to have a real life.”
“我没有背弃任何东西。”Remus坚持道，“我只是想过上真正的生活。”

Of course Castor didn’t understand; Remus kept Castor and Grant so separate that they didn’t even know each others’ names. Maybe he’d always known he’d have to pick one of them in the end. And Castor had never felt right.
当然，Castor不理解；Remus把Castor和Grant隔得很远，他们甚至不知道对方的名字。也许他一直知道最终必须选择其中一个。而且，Castor从未让人感到对劲。

In the end, Remus was banished from the pack. He was warned that if he ever returned, he would be treated as a threat. This was extreme, but he supposed that’s just what you got for breaking a werewolf’s heart.
最后，Remus被逐出了狼群。他被警告如果再回来，将会被视为威胁。这有些极端，但他想这就是伤害狼人心灵的代价。

Now Remus had to spend the full moons in Britain. He returned to some of his old haunts; the Lake District, the Brecon Beacons. He tried not to go anywhere there were too many memories of Prongs and Wormtail. Or the other one. To make matters worse, without the pack to help him heal every month, Remus had to apparate back to London and tend to his wounds as best he could.
现在Remus必须在英国度过满月。他回到了自己的一些老地方；湖区，布雷肯比肯斯。他尽量避免去那些有太多Prongs和Wormtail记忆的地方。或者其他的。更糟糕的是，没有了狼群每个月的帮助，Remus不得不回到伦敦，尽力处理自己的伤口。

“Christ!” Grant exclaimed, the first time it was really bad. He walked in on Remus in the bathroom, disinfecting his cuts, his wand shaking as he tried to grip it with broken fingers.
“天哪！”Grant惊叫道，第一次情况真的很糟。他走进浴室，看到Remus正在消毒伤口，他的魔杖因为试图用受伤的手指握住而颤抖。

“Sorry,” Remus murmured, bracing himself against the sink as a dizzy spell threatened to overwhelm him. He hadn’t felt so dreadful after a transformation since… since… his vision clouded, and he sat down on the closed toilet lid, head between his knees so he didn’t faint.
“对不起，”Remus低声说，靠在水槽上，感到一阵眩晕袭来。他自从……自从……之后没有过这么糟糕的变身体验。他的视线模糊了，坐在关上的马桶盖上，头埋在膝盖之间，以免晕倒。

“Christ!” Grant said again, coming in and kneeling in front of him. He took the bloody cotton ball Remus had been using, and tossed it in the bin. He grabbed the tub from the side of the sink, plus the bottle of TCP. “Come here, you,” he said softly, taking Remus’s hand very gently in his, and dabbing it lightly with the disinfectant.
“天哪！”Grant再次说道，走进来，跪在Remus面前。他拿起Remus用过的血迹斑斑的棉球，扔进了垃圾桶。他从水槽边拿过药膏和TCP瓶。“过来，”他轻声说道，温柔地握住Remus的手，轻轻地用消毒液涂抹。

Remus sat there dumbly, letting himself be looked after, too tired to do much else.
Remus呆呆地坐在那里，任由自己被照顾，太累了，什么也做不了。

“For god’s sake,” Grant shook his head, visibly upset, “We can’t have you in this state every month, can we my darling?”
“看在上帝的份上，”Grant摇摇头，显然很不安，“我们不能每个月都让你这样子，不是吗，我的亲爱的？”

“It’s ok.” Remus mumbled, “This isn’t too bad.”
“没关系。”Remus喃喃道，“这还算不上太糟糕。”

“My arse!” Grant retorted, getting up to look for plasters in the medicine cabinet. He found them and knelt down again, resuming his work on Remus’s scrapes. “Tell you what, if it’s a choice between you coming back like this every month or giving that wolfy fucker a few blowjobs then I’ll do it myself.”
“胡说！”Grant反驳道，站起身去药柜里找创可贴。他找到了，重新跪下，继续处理Remus的擦伤。“告诉你，如果你每个月都像这样回来，或者我给那个狼一样的混蛋几次口交，那我宁愿自己来。”

Remus laughed, which hurt his ribs. “I’m not sure it works like that.”
Remus笑了，这让他的肋骨很疼。“我不确定这样会有效。”

“Well, we’ve got to do something.” Grant grumbled, binding Remus’s broken fingers tightly together with the plasters.
“嗯，我们得做点什么。”Grant嘟囔着，把Remus的断指用创可贴紧紧包扎起来。

“You’re good at this,” Remus said, surprised, looking down at the neat work Grant had made.
“你很擅长这个，”Remus惊讶地说，低头看着Grant做的整齐的工作。

“Yeah, well, if you get battered as much as I’ve been, you pick up some tricks,” Grant looked up and winked. “And don’t forget I went on that first aid course for work. Come on then, let’s get you to bed. Are you hungry?”
“嗯，如果你像我一样受了那么多伤，你会学到一些技巧的，”Grant抬起头，眨了眨眼。“别忘了我还上过急救课程。好了，带你上床吧。你饿吗？”

“Sort of.” He was starving, but he knew there was no food in. They were waiting for payday to do a big shop.
“有点。”他很饿，但知道家里没有食物。他们在等发工资后去大采购。

“I’ll see what I can do.” Grant said, helping him through to the bedroom.

“You don’t have to, I’ll probably just sleep.”

“God, you look so pale,” Grant felt Remus’s forehead with the back of his hand. “I fink you ought to eat something.”

“Honestly, I look worse than I feel.” Remus climbed into bed, his bones wept with relief.

“Don’t believe you.” Grant got in with him, and sat up, stroking Remus’s hair. It was very soothing. “Did… did Sirius used to look after you? After full moons?”

Remus screwed his eyes up, shook his head, “Please don’t. I can’t.”

“Oh love.” Grant sighed, resuming his tender stroking. “You know, my friend who does the counselling, she says she’ll still give you an appointment. Just say the word. Helped me a lot, you don’t know how much.”

“I can’t.” Remus said. He always said the same. “There are too many lies I’d have to tell.”

“Nah, I’ve been thinking - it doesn’t have to be about the war, or even the wolf thing. Just talk to her about James and Lily and Peter. Say it was a car crash, or--”

“No.”

“Remus, I just want you to talk--”

“You know, I really don’t feel well. Can you leave me alone, please?”

“Fine.” Grant got up. Remus kept his eyes shut, but he could hear every movement. Just before he left the room, Grant turned back. “I found that bottle of gin in your sock drawer, by the way. Poured it down the sink.”

He slammed the door.

* * *

*Ring ring* *Ring ring*

“Hello?”

“Mary?”

“Remus?” There was a brief silence on the end of the line, as Mary collected herself. Remus knew that feeling. Sometimes he’d be reminded of something from the old days, and it would knock all the air out of him. “Hi!” She said, her voice carrying an overwide smile. “How are you, sweetheart?”
“Remus？”电话那头有一丝短暂的沉默，Mary在整理情绪。Remus知道这种感觉。有时他会被提醒过去的事情，这会让他感到窒息。“嗨！”她说，声音中带着过于宽泛的笑容。“你好吗，亲爱的？”

“Oh, you know. I’m not disturbing you?” He always tried to give her an easy out, if she wanted it.

“Of course not... Just had our tea.”

“Oh nice, what did you have?”

“Chicken and rice. Darren’s favourite.”

“Sounds good.”

“You ought to come for dinner, one evening. Still in London, are you?”

“Yeah… same flat.”

“Oh, of course. Is that…? Um. How is that?”

“It's ok.” He said, glancing around at his shabby living room. “Been here so long now I s’pose it feels like it's always been just mine.”

“Seeing anyone?”

“Sort of.”

“Working?”

“Cleaning. Off and on, when I can get it. I was stacking shelves for a bit, over in Epping, but I fell asleep on the job and they sacked me.”「打掃。斷斷續續，當我能得到它時。我在埃平（Epping）堆放了一會兒貨架，但我在工作中睡著了，他們解雇了我。

“Be gentle with yourself, love.”

“Yeah.” He took a drink from his beer bottle. “How’s your job?”

“Good! Turns out I might have been awful at transfiguration, but accounting is no big deal.”好的！原來我在變形方面可能很糟糕，但會計沒什麼大不了的。

Darren had opened a garage in late ‘85, and Mary worked there too, taking care of all the bookings and the invoicing. They were saving up to move out of their tower block, and get a little house with a garden. She only used magic very occasionally, she told Remus, though her relationship with her wand had never been quite the same since finding the McKinnons.

達倫 (Darren) 在 85 年底開了一家車庫，瑪麗也在那裡工作，負責所有預訂和發票。他們正在存錢搬出塔樓，買一棟有花園的小房子。她告訴萊姆斯，她只是偶爾使用魔法，儘管自從找到麥金農一家之後，她和魔杖的關係就不再一樣了。

“Remus? Are you still there?”

“Sorry, yeah. Drifted off.”

 

“I do that too…” a pause, and Remus got that sick, tight feeling in his stomach. He could guess what was coming next. Mary raised her voice, slightly, “Have you got someone to talk to? Whoever it is you’re ‘sort of’ seeing, do they know what happened?”

“Sorry, yeah. Drifted off.”

“I do that too…” a pause, and Remus got that sick, tight feeling in his stomach. He could guess what was coming next. Mary raised her voice slightly, “Have you got someone to talk to? Whoever it is you’re ‘sort of’ seeing, do they know what happened?”“我也会这样…”一阵沉默，Remus感到腹中一阵恶心的紧绷感。他能猜到接下来会发生什么。Mary稍微提高了声音：“你有可以倾诉的人吗？你‘有点’在见的那个人知道发生了什么吗？”

“Mm.” Remus made a noncommittal noise. “Bits and pieces.”“嗯。”Remus发出了一声含糊的声音。“一些细节。”

“Because you ought to talk about it, Remus. You shouldn’t have to carry all of that… I can’t imagine how it must feel, the betrayal--”

“No.” Remus snapped, “You can’t!” and he slammed down the phone, as hard as he could, so that he knocked it off the table. He finished his beer before moving to pick it up.



“不。”Remus怒斥道，“你无法想象！”然后他用力把电话摔下，直到它从桌子上掉下来。他喝完了啤酒才去捡电话。

Fuck her, then.

Everyone wanted him to talk, but none of them really knew. None of them could know - how stupid he felt, how used. Lily and James and Peter and Marlene - losing them was one thing. Remus had taught himself to focus on the best memories, the happiest times.

每个人都想让他说出来，但他们都真的不知道。他们无法知道——他感到多么愚蠢，多么被利用。Lily、James、Peter和Marlene——失去他们是一回事。Remus已经学会了专注于最美好的回忆，最快乐的时光。

But Sirius. There was not one moment of their time together that wasn’t tainted; poisoned by the lies Black had been telling. Remus had been open, and vulnerable and loving, and every moment of it had been false.但Sirius。他们在一起的每一刻都被污染了；被Black编织的谎言毒害了。Remus曾经是开放的，脆弱的，充满爱的，每一刻都是虚假的。

He had been made a fool of by the only person he had ever loved. He was pathetic ; too blinded by emotion to see the truth, and now there was nothing left of him. He would never be capable of that kind of softness ever again. Remus’s hatred for Sirius was so overwhelming sometimes it frightened him.

他被唯一爱过的人戏弄了。他很可怜；被情感蒙蔽了真相，现在他已经没有了。他再也无法拥有那种柔软。Remus对Sirius的仇恨有时如此强烈，以至于让他感到害怕。

So how was he supposed to talk about that? How was he supposed to tell Grant, or some therapist, that he was not merely angry, not merely grieving, but paralysed by rage? That he sometimes dreamed about getting to Azkaban somehow, and killing Sirius himself. That once or twice in the first few months after the war, he had gone so far as to actually get up in the night, drunk and furious, grabbed his wand, and planned to do exactly that. The only thing that stopped him was the thought of getting splinched, or having to face all those dementors.

那他怎么可能谈论这些？他怎么能告诉Grant或某个治疗师，他不仅仅是生气，不仅仅是哀悼，而是被愤怒麻痹？他有时会梦到设法进入阿兹卡班，亲自杀死Sirius。战后头几个月里，他曾经因为喝醉了，愤怒地起来，抓起他的魔杖，计划做到这一点。唯一阻止他的，是对被分裂或面对那些摄魂怪的恐惧。

He kicked the coffee table, furiously, stubbing his toe.

“Bugger!”

Grant poked his head around the corner of the living room door. “Didn’t go well, then?”

Grant探出头来从客厅门的角落看过来。“不顺利吗？”

“There's no point trying.” Remus huffed, rubbing his foot and hopping across the room to flick on the t.v. “She’s happy. She's got her life together. I should just leave her to it.” He collapsed back into the sofa.“没必要再试了。”Remus哼了一声，揉着脚走到电视机旁打开电视。“她很幸福。她的生活很美好。我应该就让她这样。”他倒回到沙发上。

“Is that what she said?” Grant came in, reproachfully.“她这么说了吗？”Grant走进来，带着责备的语气。

“No. But it’s what’s fair.” Remus kept his eyes fixed on the screen, slouching down further. Maybe Grant would get the message: I don’t want to talk!

“没有。但这才公平。”Remus的视线固定在屏幕上，身体更深地陷入沙发中。也许Grant会明白：我不想谈！

“Why don’t you invite her over one saturday?” Grant sat on the arm of the couch. “I’d like to meet her.”

“No point. She wouldn’t come. Too many memories here.”

“We could go out then, go for lunch somewhere nice.”

“We can’t afford that.”

Grant rubbed his temples, wincing as if he was getting a headache, “You’re being childish.” He said.

“Piss off.”

“Brilliant rebuttal, that,” Grant snorted, “Come on, what happened to the clever clogs I used to fancy the pants off? Use your big words.”
“这真是个精彩的反驳，”格兰特哼了一声，“来吧，你以前那聪明的家伙去哪儿了？用你那大词儿。”

“Look, you wanted me to call Mary and I did. It ended badly, like I knew it would, and that’s that. Just leave me alone, will you?!”
“听着，你想让我打电话给玛丽，我打了。结果像我预料的那样糟糕，就这样。就别再打扰我，好吗？！”

“Yeah, I can imagine exactly why it ended badly, too, and I don’t need to be a bloody magician to work it out.”
“是啊，我完全能猜到为什么结果会那么糟糕，我可不需要当个该死的魔术师来弄明白。”

“Wizard.”
“巫师。”

“Dickhead. From what you’ve told me she’s a nice girl. And she knows you. I just thought she’d be someone to talk to about--”
“蠢货。根据你说的，她是个好女孩。而且她认识你。我只是觉得她可能是个可以谈谈的对象——”

“Yeah, well, she doesn’t want to talk about it any more than I do.” Remus spat. “She told me to talk to you.”
“是啊，她也不想再谈这个了。”雷穆斯吐槽道。“她让我和你谈。”

“She did?” Grant blinked. Remus felt especially cruel.
“她真的这么说？”格兰特眨了眨眼。雷穆斯感到特别残酷。

“Well. Obviously she doesn’t know you by name. Just whoever I’m shagging, right now.”
“嗯。显然她不认识你的名字。只是现在我正在上床的那个人。”

“Right.” Grant made an obvious effort to ignore this slight. “Well, come on then.”

“What?”

“It’s a Sunday, I’ve got nothing to do. Let’s talk.”

“No.”

“Remus. I can’t go on like this.” Grant said. “I love you, I do, but this is too---”

Fuck. Alarm bells started going off inside Remus’s head.

It was as if someone had started flashing the lights on and off, and the walls were closing in, and all the air had left the room, and he was dizzy, drowning, blinded. There was a weird taste in his mouth, and he thought he might be sick, except he couldn’t breathe enough to retch, just kept gasping, tumbling forward.
就像是有人开始不停地闪烁灯光，墙壁在逼近，空气全都消失了，他感到头晕，快要窒息，眼前一片模糊。他嘴里有股奇怪的味道，觉得自己可能会恶心，但却没有足够的空气来呕吐，只能不停地喘气，身体前倾。

“Hey, hey hey!” Grant’s voice penetrated the fog, echoing and distant. “Remus? Remus, can you take a deep breath? In on one, out on two, ok? One…”
“嘿，嘿，嘿！”格兰特的声音穿透了迷雾，回响而又遥远。“雷穆斯？雷穆斯，你能深呼吸吗？吸气时数一，呼气时数二，明白吗？一……”

Remus felt sweat trickle down his back, his heart thudding into overdrive, but he breathed in, as much as he could. “Two…” Grant said. He was rubbing his back very slowly. Remus let out a long shaky breath. “That’s so good,” Grant said, voice louder now, “So good, Remus, well done. And again, one… two…”
雷穆斯感到汗水沿着背部流下，心跳加速，但他尽可能地吸气。“二……”格兰特说道。他非常缓慢地抚摸着他的背。雷穆斯长长地吐出了一口气。“很好，”格兰特说道，声音现在变得更响了，“很好，雷穆斯，做得好。再来一次，一……二……”

They must have sat there for almost two full minutes, just breathing together. Eventually, Remus felt halfway normal again. Except he really, really wanted a drink.
他们就这样坐了差不多两分钟，只是一起呼吸。最后，雷穆斯感觉自己稍微正常了一些。除了他真的、真的很想喝一杯。

“See,” Grant said, using the voice that Remus was sure he reserved for the troubled kids he worked with, “This is why I need you to talk to me. We can’t have this, can we?”
“你看，”格兰特说道，用着雷穆斯确信他专门对待有困扰的孩子时才用的语气，“这就是我需要你和我谈谈的原因。我们不能这样下去，对吧？”

Remus shook his head, but didn’t trust himself to speak.
雷穆斯摇了摇头，但不相信自己能开口。

“I’m sorry I said what I said,” Grant continued, “I didn't mean it. There’s no ‘buts’, ok? I love you, and you’re stuck with me.”
“对不起，我说了那些话，”格兰特继续说道，“我不是那个意思。没有‘但是’，明白吗？我爱你，你得和我在一起。”

Remus nodded again, head still in his hands, eyes shut tight. He had to be getting the flu, or something; people didn’t get dizzy just from not talking, surely. Only… only Grant saying that; ‘I can’t go on…’ it had ignited such dread inside him, such terror, maybe there was something to it.
雷穆斯再次点了点头，头仍然埋在双手中，眼睛紧闭。他一定是得了流感，或者其他什么；人们不可能只是因为不说话就头晕的。只是……只是格兰特说的那句话；‘我无法继续下去……’它在他内心点燃了如此的恐惧，也许这确实有些道理。

“What if you tell me just one thing?” Grant tried, “Just one thing to help me understand?”
“如果你告诉我一件事怎么样？”格兰特试探性地问，“只是一件事，帮我理解？”

“Like what?” Remus choked.
“像什么？”雷穆斯哽咽道。

“Well…” he could practically hear Grant’s mind whirring. Did he have a list of things he wanted to pry out of Remus, all saved up for just this occasion? Was this some stupid psychoanalysis bullshit Grant had picked up on a training course?
“嗯……”他几乎能听到格兰特思维的运转声。他是否有一份清单，列出他想从雷穆斯这里挖掘出来的所有事情，为了这一刻而准备好？这是格兰特在培训课程上学到的一些愚蠢的心理分析废话吗？

“You’ve never told me what happened to Sirius. I know he’s not dead. Did he… leave?”
“你从未告诉我天狼星发生了什么。我知道他还活着。他……离开了？”

“Yeah, in a manner of speaking.” Remus grunted. God, hearing someone else say his name hurt so much. He felt dizzy all over again.
“是的，从某种意义上说。”雷穆斯咕哝道。天啊，听到别人说他的名字真是太痛苦了。他感到全身再次晕眩。

“What do you mean?”
“你什么意思？”

“He’s in prison.” Remus said. Then he breathed in again, and forced out the rest. “He’s in prison because he murdered them, and I wasn’t here to stop any of it.”
“他在监狱里。”雷穆斯说道。然后他再次深吸一口气，勉强说出了剩下的话。“他在监狱里，因为他杀了他们，而我不在这里阻止这一切。”

“Fucking hell.”
“该死的。”

“Mm.” Remus braced himself for more questions. But none came. Grant just slipped his arm over his shoulder and gave him a squeeze.
“嗯。”雷穆斯准备迎接更多的问题。但没有。格兰特只是把手臂搭在他的肩膀上，给了他一个拥抱。

“It wasn’t your fault.”
“这不是你的错。”

“You don’t know that.” Remus returned, still looking down. “You don’t know how stupid I was. I missed all the signs. I knew something was wrong, but I thought… I thought it was just me; I thought he wanted to break up. I was so selfish, I never thought for a second that he would… that he could…” He was crying now. Stupid Grant.
“你不知道。”雷穆斯回答道，仍然低着头。“你不知道我有多愚蠢。我错过了所有的迹象。我知道有些不对劲，但我以为……我以为只是我自己；我以为他想分手。我太自私了，我从未想过他会……他可以……”他现在在哭。愚蠢的格兰特。

“It’s his fault for letting you down, not your fault for trusting him.” Grant kept hugging him. Remus allowed it, to make him feel better; to make this seem like a breakthrough.
“让你失望是他的错，不是你信任他的错。”格兰特继续拥抱他。雷穆斯允许了，这让他感觉好些；让这一刻看起来像是一个突破。

But Grant could say that all he wanted - Mary had said something similar, once or twice over the years. It just didn’t ring true. The dead were still dead, and Remus had not been there to prevent any of it. Even if he had been there, that Halloween night; the way he’d been back then, he probably would have let Sirius kill him, too, rather than try to fight him.
但格兰特可以说得再多——玛丽多年来也曾说过类似的话。只是这听起来不真实。死者仍然死去，而雷穆斯没有在场阻止这一切。即使他当时在场，那一年的万圣节夜晚；以他当时的状态，他可能也会让天狼星杀了自己，而不是尝试去抵抗。

Back then, dying for love had seemed the only worthy cause. But he was older, now, and he knew the truth. Never again. Never, never.
那时，为爱而死似乎是唯一值得的事业。但现在他已经年长了，他知道了真相。再也不会了。永远不会。

Chapter 179: 1987When I look back upon my life

It's always with a sense of shame

I've always been the one to blame

For everything I long to do

No matter when or where or who

Has one thing in common, too;

 

It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a sin

It's a sin

 In the spring of 1987, Remus had a spot of luck. One of Grant’s old student friends now worked in the Law Department at UCL and managed to swing a job for Remus doing some freelance editing. This was a revelation; he could do the bulk of it at home, and then just take it up to Holborn once it was done. He did need to get a national insurance card, and a muggle bank account, but that was easy enough with a few tactical glamour spells at the bank.

1987年春天，雷穆斯走了点运气。格兰特的一位老同学现在在UCL的法律系工作，设法为雷穆斯找到了一份自由编辑的工作。这对雷穆斯来说是个启示；他可以在家完成大部分工作，然后一旦完成，就带到霍尔本。他确实需要一张国民保险卡和一个麻瓜银行账户，但在银行用几个战术幻术就轻松搞定了。

Remus only cheated a little bit, using magic to help him read and correct spelling, but he found the work surprisingly enjoyable, and even started a little business marking exam papers for some of the local muggle schools.
雷穆斯只稍微作弊了一点，用魔法帮助他阅读和纠正拼写，但他发现这份工作出乎意料的有趣，甚至还开始了一些为当地麻瓜学校批改试卷的小生意。

“Dunno how you can concentrate so long.” Grant shook his head at the pile of papers Remus had amassed one evening. “I’d go out of my mind.”
“真不知道你怎么能集中这么久。”有一天晚上，格兰特对雷穆斯堆积的一堆试卷摇了摇头。“我会疯掉的。”

“It’s interesting,” Remus shrugged, “I never got the chance to learn any of this stuff. Have you heard of quadratic equations?”
“很有趣，”雷穆斯耸了耸肩，“我从来没有机会学这些东西。你听说过二次方程吗？”

Grant laughed at him fondly and ruffled his hair, “You boffin.”
格兰特宠溺地笑着揉了揉他的头发，“你这个书呆子。”

Grant himself had been going from strength to strength at work. He loved his job, and put in extra time on the weekends and evenings whenever he could. The boys Grant worked with were every bit as much trouble as the St Edmund’s boys, but that only seemed to spur Grant on. He was always telling Remus about one kid or another who’d had a little victory - a passing mark at school, a week without a fight, time off their sentence. Somehow Grant knew everything about everyone; his memory limitless, his capacity for pride and encouragement unbelievable.
格兰特自己在工作上也越来越顺利。他热爱自己的工作，尽可能在周末和晚上加班。格兰特工作的那些男孩和圣埃德蒙的男孩一样麻烦，但这似乎只会激励格兰特。他总是告诉雷穆斯某个孩子取得的小胜利——在学校及格了，一周没有打架，减刑时间。格兰特似乎对每个人的情况了如指掌；他的记忆力无限，他的自豪感和鼓励能力令人难以置信。

“Got to cut out that article in the Observer,” he might say one evening, “Sounds right up Alfie’s street.” Or, “Staying late tomorrow, with any luck - promised the older lads we’d have a kick-about if none of them get written up.”
“得把观察家报上的那篇文章剪下来，”某个晚上他说，“这听起来正合阿尔菲的口味。”或者，“明天要晚点回家，希望一切顺利——答应了那些大孩子，如果他们没人被记过，我们就踢一场球。”

When he was feeling insecure sometimes Remus would wonder if Grant was only with him because he too was a troubled boy. That Grant was just trying to save him; like he tried to save everybody. He lived for a good cause.
有时当雷穆斯感到不安时，他会想，格兰特是不是和他在一起只是因为他也是个有问题的男孩。格兰特只是想救他；就像他试图救每个人一样。他为了一个好的事业而活。

“Shut up,” Grant would grin at him, if he raised these concerns. “I’ve wanted to get in your pants since we were teenagers, it’s got nothing to do with your tortured past.”
“闭嘴，”如果雷穆斯提出这些担忧，格兰特会咧嘴笑着对他说。“我从我们还是青少年时就想上你的床，这和你的痛苦过去无关。”

And then Remus would remember that after all, Grant was a care home kid himself. Something which was easy to forget, because unlike Remus, he bore it lightly, with a casual shrug of acceptance. Poverty, lack of education, mistreatment - none of this weighed Grant down in the same way. At least not on the surface. But Remus had been wrong about people before.
然后雷穆斯会记起，毕竟，格兰特自己也是个寄养院的孩子。这点很容易忘记，因为与雷穆斯不同，他轻松地接受了这一切，随意地耸了耸肩。贫穷，缺乏教育，虐待——这些都没有以同样的方式压垮格兰特。至少表面上没有。但雷穆斯以前对人有过误判。

As a result of Grant’s dedication to his work, and Remus’s own relatively low impact employment, Remus found himself in a position he had never been in before - having both free time and a bit of disposable income.
由于格兰特对工作的投入，以及雷穆斯自己相对低影响的就业，雷穆斯发现自己处于一个前所未有的境地——既有空闲时间又有一点可支配收入。

He didn’t need much - the flat was paid for, their furniture was serviceable, and they could generally afford to keep the electric and hot water on. He bought clothes every once in a while, but he hardly shopped at Harrods. There was the drink, but he reasoned that as he didn’t smoke any more, he could put his tobacco money towards booze.
他不需要太多——公寓已经付清，他们的家具还算可用，他们一般能负担得起电费和热水费。他偶尔买些衣服，但几乎不在哈罗德购物。至于喝酒，他认为既然他不再抽烟了，可以把烟草钱用来买酒。

What Remus did enjoy doing was going for walks. Not countryside rambles - he got enough of that on full moons - but wandering through London by himself, enjoying the streets, the people. He visited every free museum in London - the National Gallery, the Portrait Gallery, the V&A, the British Museum. He became quite cultured, in fact. And if his hip hurt (which it often did, now, as he entered his late twenties), he could easily hop on a bus.
雷穆斯喜欢做的是散步。不是乡村漫步——满月时他已经够多了——而是独自漫步在伦敦，享受街道和人群。他参观了伦敦的每一个免费博物馆——国家美术馆，肖像馆，V&A博物馆，大英博物馆。事实上，他变得相当有文化。如果他的臀部疼痛（现在进入二十多岁后经常如此），他可以轻松地上公交车。

So, one summer's day, he had completed all of his marking, and there was nothing on TV, Grant would not be home for hours, so he mooched around the Science Museum for an hour or so. Funnily enough, it put him in mind of Arthur Weasley, for the first time in years. The daft old bugger would love all of the machines, the pistons, the lightbulbs. He could just picture Arthur’s face as he watched the perpetual motion machine, and Remus smiled to himself, quite out of the blue. How was Arthur? And his wife, the Prewetts’ sister, and their redhaired brood? It had been too long now to get in touch, Remus knew, and he wouldn’t know what to say, even if he did.
于是，有一个夏天的日子，他完成了所有的批改，电视上也没什么好看的节目，格兰特还要几个小时才能回家，所以他在科学博物馆闲逛了一个小时左右。有趣的是，这使他想起了亚瑟·韦斯莱，这是多年来第一次。那个傻老家伙会喜欢所有的机器，活塞，灯泡。他可以想象亚瑟看着永动机时的表情，雷穆斯不由自主地笑了。亚瑟怎么样了？他的妻子，普雷威特家的姐姐，还有他们红发的一群孩子？雷穆斯知道，已经太久没有联系了，即使联系上了，他也不知道该说什么。

Still, thinking about the Weasleys hadn’t hurt, which was the main thing. And perhaps thinking about them put him in a different mindframe for the afternoon - more alert, maybe, or nostalgic. It couldn’t be a coincidence that he bumped into an old friend only two hours later.
不过，想到韦斯莱一家并没有让他感到痛苦，这才是最重要的。也许，想到他们让他下午的心情有些不同——也许更警觉，或更怀旧。两个小时后遇到一个老朋友，这不可能是巧合。

He was nearly home, only a street or so away, shuffling anonymously through the bustling Chinatown alleyways. In fact, he was just about to pass the place they’d got their tv - the sauna off Old Compton Street. Remus always blushed a bit, walking past it, and then chastised himself for being such a prude. He ducked his head slightly, as he approached, and - horror of horrors - just as he was level with the door somebody stepped out of it.
他快到家了，只剩一条街的距离，匿名地穿过熙熙攘攘的唐人街小巷。事实上，他正要经过他们买电视的地方——旧康普顿街旁的桑拿房。雷穆斯每次走过都会脸红，然后责备自己太保守。他微微低下头，靠近时——恐怖中的恐怖——正好有人从门里走出来。

Remus had to stop short, so as not to bump into them. They turned and stared up at him, nervously.
雷穆斯不得不停下脚步，以免撞到他们。他们转过身，紧张地抬头看着他。

Remus gasped. “Christopher!”
雷穆斯倒吸一口气。“克里斯托弗！”

The man blinked, horrified. He was red faced with dark brown eyes that were rather small and watery. He was a bit chubbier than he had been at school, and his hairline was receding slightly at the temples. But it was definitely him.
那个男人眨了眨眼，惊恐万分。他脸色通红，深棕色的眼睛相当小且水汪汪的。他比在学校时胖了一点，发际线在两鬓稍稍后移。但这确实是他。

“Remus?”

“Hi! It's been…”

“Not since…”

“Yeah. How are you?” Remus winced even as he asked the question. Christopher was so clearly uncomfortable - and why shouldn’t he be? He hadn’t seen Remus in almost ten years, and now here he was, looming over him outside a gay sauna.
“嗯，你好吗？”雷穆斯一边问问题一边皱着眉头。克里斯托弗显然很不舒服——他不应该不舒服吗？他几乎有十年没见过雷穆斯了，而现在，雷穆斯就在一个同性恋桑拿房外俯视着他。

“Oh… you know.” Christopher looked at his feet.
“哦……你知道的。”克里斯托弗看着自己的脚。

He was wearing muggle clothes - a stonewashed denim shirt with the buttons done up unevenly, dress trousers and a burnt orange waistcoat with green embroidery. In short, he looked as dreadful as every pureblood wizard who tried to pass as a muggle. As always, Christopher’s general air of hopelessness endeared Remus to him.
他穿着麻瓜衣服——一件石洗牛仔衬衫，纽扣扣得不均匀，西裤和一件带绿色刺绣的烧橙色马甲。总之，他看起来和每个试图冒充麻瓜的纯血巫师一样糟糕。像往常一样，克里斯托弗那种无助的气质让雷穆斯对他充满了好感。

“Er…” Remus rubbed the back of his head. “Do you want to… um. Got time for a coffee? Or a drink? Catch up a bit?”
“呃……”雷穆斯揉了揉后脑勺。“你想……嗯。有时间喝杯咖啡吗？或者喝一杯？聊聊近况？”

“Ok then…” Christopher looked up at him, cautiously.
“好吧……”克里斯托弗小心翼翼地抬头看着他。

Remus took charge from that point, because it was clear there was no other way. He led Christopher further up the street, back towards Tottenham Court Road. There was a cafe on Denmark Street that was cheap and anonymous, and for some reason Remus wanted to get further away from home.
从那一刻起，雷穆斯接管了，因为显然没有其他办法。他带着克里斯托弗沿街走回托特纳姆法院路。丹麦街上有一家廉价而不起眼的咖啡馆，不知为何，雷穆斯想离家更远一些。

“Here we are,” he smiled kindly, holding the door open and pointing out an available table. Christopher said nothing, and sat down, fidgeting a bit. Remus wondered if this was all a terrible idea - maybe Chris didn’t want to speak to him. But he went along with it, and offered to pay when Remus went to order their coffees.
“到了，”他友善地笑着，打开门并指向一张空桌子。克里斯托弗一言不发，坐下后有些不安地扭动。雷穆斯想知道这是不是个糟糕的主意——也许克里斯不想和他说话。但他还是配合了，并在雷穆斯去点咖啡时提出付款。

 

“Do you live nearby?” Christopher asked, finally, still not fully making eye contact.
“你住在附近吗？”克里斯托弗终于问道，依然没有完全与他眼神接触。

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, “Not far. You?”

“Oh, no. Out in Hampshire. I just come into the city for work, and… well.”

“Where do you work now?” Remus asked, desperate to spare him any further embarrassment.

“Gringotts.” Chris said, glancing up at the waitress as their coffees arrived. He put three sugars in his, and as much milk as he could - Remus realised he hadn’t even asked if Chris liked coffee.

“Very swish,” Remus smiled, “Always knew you’d do well.”

“I suppose.”

“Still read lots?”

“When there’s time… work keeps me busy. And other responsibilities, you know how it is. I thought we were overworked during NEWTs, but Hogwarts was a holiday compared to real life.”

Remus chewed the inside of his cheek, because that was very true, and he didn’t want to get upset about it.

“How about you?” Christopher asked, clearly trying not to grimace as he sipped his coffee. “What do you do, now?”

“This and that,” Remus shrugged. “Haven’t exactly got a career.”

“Oh, what a shame.”

 

Remus shrugged, “It’s fine, I manage.”

There was an awkward silence. Remus wanted to ask about the sauna, but he knew better. Grant would probably ask, but then Grant had a way of putting people at ease which Remus didn’t. He just drank his coffee quietly, and wished he’d suggested a pub, instead.

一陣尷尬的沉默。萊姆斯想詢問桑拿的事，但他更清楚。格蘭特可能會問，但格蘭特有辦法讓人們放鬆，而萊姆斯卻沒有。他只是安靜地喝著咖啡，希望他能推薦一家酒吧。

“I thought you’d died.” Christopher said, suddenly. Remus nearly choked. He set down his coffee.

“You…”

“There were so many rumours, back then - you remember what it was like. And there were all these names, and when I saw what had happened to Lily, and your friend James, I just thought… especially after it came out that Sirius Black was the one who did it, I just assumed...”

Remus breathed in, sharply, and waited for the pain to retreat. When it did, he exhaled slowly, and said, very evenly,

“No. I wasn’t there, that night. I had no idea what Black was up to. No one did.”

“He was always up to something,” Christopher said, darkly. “And with his family… I suppose it didn’t come as much of a surprise, really.”

“No.” Remus said, not really knowing what he was saying anymore, just trying to ignore the roaring in his head, “I suppose not.”

“I was so upset about Lily, though. She was kind. Do you know where Harry is, now? The boy who lived?”

Remus just shook his head. He drank more coffee - probably not a brilliant idea to add caffeine to his already speeding heart rate, but he was trying to be as normal as possible.

“If you weren’t dead,” Christopher continued, “I thought you might just not want to talk to me.”

 

“Why?”

“I know you and your friends were all involved in the war - helping Dumbledore and everything. I didn’t… my parents sent me to Sweden, after I finished my NEWTs. They were worried about me, they wanted me out of the way. You remember what things were like.”

Yes , Remus wanted to say, yes, I bloody remember. Sometimes I wake up and it’s like it’s still happening.

“And with us being purebloods… I think they were worried I’d have to pick a side. So they sent me away - we have family in Gothenburg, and I got my qualification in Magical Finance.”

“Right.” Remus nodded. He really needed to talk about something else. “Good for you, Chris. So, um… are you in Soho often?”

 

Christopher turned crimson again, and looked down at his mug of coffee. “Only… only sometimes. Honestly, I just heard about that place and thought I’d take a look, I didn’t… I don’t want you to think…”

“You know you ought to be careful,” Remus said, lowering his voice in case any of the cafe patrons were listening in, “There’s this illness the muggles are getting - I’m not sure how much your lot know about it, but it’s really serious.”

“Like I said,” Christopher said, “I barely go there, really. Just stupid curiosity.”

Remus felt a twinge of guilt, for making Christopher feel bad. If Grant had taught him anything, it was that you should never add to anyone’s personal shame. It was a wasted emotion anyway, no need to make it worse.

“There’s nothing wrong with being curious,” Remus said, gently, “Lots of people go to those places.”

“Do you?” Christopher looked up at him.

“No.” Remus said, a bit too quickly. “Er… I mean, you know I was never very sociable.”

“Oh, of course. I can imagine, after everything that happened…”

Remus didn’t want to get onto that, so he changed the subject, “Seeing anyone?” he asked, “Got a boyfriend?”

Christopher shook his head. “No. It’s difficult, you know. The job I have, my family. Things have been… well, there’s been a fair bit of trial and error, in that respect.”

Remus wanted to squeeze his hand over the table, but it wasn’t really the place. He tilted his head, sympathetically,

“It will get better, Chris.”

Christopher looked at him with a resigned smile. “Mm, yes, I remember you saying something like that before, at school. Someone for everyone.”

 

“Well, there is.” Remus nodded, encouragingly. “More than one person, even.”

“I don’t know.” Chris sighed, “I don’t know if it’s healthy to think like that. There are so many factors to consider, and I don’t… I don’t think it works like in books. I don’t think everyone has that experience.”

That was a difficult thing to hear. Remus didn’t know what to say, really, and felt weirdly self-conscious and naive. Certainly, Remus did not glamourise romance any more - if he ever had at all. Love had beaten the shit out of him on more than one occasion. But it had also been the only thing worth living for. It had lifted him, protected him, and kept him human. He had a sudden longing to see Grant, and wondered if he’d be home yet.
那是一件很难听的话。雷穆斯真的不知道该说什么，感觉莫名地自觉和天真。当然，雷穆斯不再美化爱情——如果他曾经有的话。爱情不止一次把他打得体无完肤。但它也是唯一值得活下去的东西。它抬起了他，保护了他，让他保持人性。他突然很想见到Grant，不知道他是否已经回家。

 

“Don’t feel sorry for me,” Christopher said, briskly, checking his pocket watch, “I have a nice enough time. I like my work, I make plenty of money, and when I get a free evening I still… you know, I’m able to enjoy myself once in a while. I just see it as a treat, rather than a lifestyle. Actually,” he leaned in a little, “I have a flat in Kensington - for when I work late, and don’t want to apparate all the way home. It’s nice there, if you’d like to see it.” He raised an eyebrow suggestively.
“别为我感到难过，”克里斯托弗干脆地说，查看他的怀表，“我过得还不错。我喜欢我的工作，挣了不少钱，有空的时候我还能……你知道，偶尔享受一下。我只是把这看作一种享受，而不是一种生活方式。实际上，”他微微靠近，“我在肯辛顿有一套公寓——为了工作到很晚，不想幻影移形回家的时候。那里很不错，如果你想去看看。”他挑了挑眉，暗示性地说。

Remus’s mouth went dry, and he swallowed, flustered,

“Um. Nice of you to offer, really, but. I’d better be getting home. I’ve got someone waiting.”

“Oh.” Christopher sat up straighter, withdrawing. His face seemed to close up. “You’ve got someone.”

“Yes, for a few years, now.” Almost six, he realised. Longer than he’d had Sirius - if he’d ever really had Sirius.

“Well. Good for you, then. Look, I’d better go, Remus, it was very nice to see you again.” Christopher stood up, and extended a formal hand for Remus to shake. “We ought to have a proper catch up, one of these days, let me know if you’re ever in Diagon Alley, perhaps, I’ll arrange lunch.”

“Ok,” Remus nodded, shaking his hand.

He knew he would never be in Diagon Alley, and as Christopher didn’t give him any contact details Remus assumed that the invitation was merely politeness. He did not miss pureblood hypocrisy.他知道自己永遠不會去對角巷，而且由於克里斯托弗沒有給他任何聯繫方式，萊姆斯認為邀請只是出於禮貌。他並不懷念純血統的虛偽。

Remus walked home quickly, ignoring the ache in his hip, and was relieved beyond belief to find Grant already there, in the kitchen.

 

萊姆斯快步走回家，忽略了臀部的疼痛，難以置信地發現格蘭特已經在廚房裡了，他鬆了一口氣。

“Wotcher, boffin,” he grinned, “How was the museum?”

“Good, thanks. Interesting.”

“Reckon I should take some of the lads there on a trip, if I can get it past the governor.” He held up two tins, “Beans on toast, or spaghetti hoops on toast?”“我想如果我能通過州長的話，我應該帶一些小伙子去那裡旅行。”他舉起兩個罐頭，“吐司上放豆子，還是吐司上放意大利麵圈？”

“Whichever you prefer,” Remus said, watching him. Grant looked at them both cheerfully,

“Hoops then. With lots of Worcestershire, eh?”那就籃球吧。伍斯特郡有很多地方，是嗎？

“Sounds perfect.” Remus breathed.

“ Perfect ,” Grant chuckled, “You must be hungry.”

“No, I just… just missed you, that’s all.”

“I’ve only been at work.”

“I know…”

“Daft sod.” Grant shook his head, still smiling, turning his back to open the cutlery drawer and find the tin opener.“愚蠢的草皮。”格蘭特搖搖頭，仍然微笑著，轉身打開餐具抽屜，找到開罐器。

Remus crossed the room quickly, and hugged him, wrapping his arms around Grant’s waist, pulling him in and inhaling the scent of him. Grant set down the tin opener carefully, and hugged Remus back, rubbing his arms. “You alright, sweetheart?”萊姆斯快步穿過房間，擁抱了他，用雙臂環抱格蘭特的腰，把他拉進懷裡，吸入他身上的氣味。格蘭特小心翼翼地放下開罐器，回抱萊姆斯，揉搓他的手臂。 “你還好嗎，親愛的？”

 

“Mmmhm.” Remus said, into his neck. “Just glad you’re here.”

 

“嗯嗯。”萊姆斯對著他的脖子說。 “很高興你在這裡。”

British-isms:
- UCL - University College London
- National insurance card - Has your national insurance number on it. In the UK you need this to get a job, as it ensures you are making the right tax contributions on your salary. National insurance payments, made over your working life, mean you are entitled to various benefits (Job seekers allowance, maternity allowance etc.) and your state pension. I'm guessing wizards don't have them lol.
- The Observer - National broadsheet newspaper.
- Kick-about - impromptu/casual game of football. I'm guessing it's the equivalent to when Americans 'toss a ball around' or 'play catch'.
- Harrods - (not sure this actually needs explaining) high-end London department store, only used by tourists and the mega-rich.
- Boffin - a clever person (nerd, geek etc.)
- Worcestershire - Worcestershire sauce - the best possible condiment for beans/hoops on toast. Pronounced 'wooster', like the place.)

 

 

Chapter 180: 1989Got on a lucky one

Came in eighteen to one

I've got a feeling

This year's for me and you

So happy Christmas

I love you baby!

I can see a better time

When all our dreams come true.


In 1989, Remus actually went to Oxford Street to do his Christmas shopping, on Grant’s insistence.

“You’ve never been?!” He had gasped, eyes wide, “You haven’t seen the lights?!”

“I didn’t think proper Londoners got involved in all that nonsense.” Remus replied, defensively.

“ Proper Londoners leave the house.” Grant said. “And buy presents for their friends.”

“I don’t have any friends.” Remus said - then felt awful. Because of course, he had Grant.

“What about that Mary bird? Sends you letters all the time.”

“Oh yeah. I could get her something, maybe.”

“That’s the spirit, Ebenezer.”
“这就对了，埃比尼泽。”

Remus shrugged off the teasing, because he knew Grant loved Christmas - or any opportunity to celebrate, really - and Grant had had a very difficult year.
雷穆斯无视了这个玩笑，因为他知道Grant喜欢圣诞节——或任何庆祝的机会——而Grant这一年过得非常艰难。

Having worked so hard to gain his school leaving certificate, pushing every step of the way to get A-Levels and various other qualifications, all so that he could have his dream job, which was helping other people, Grant had finally come up against an insurmountable opponent. The government - more specifically, The Local Government Act.
Grant辛苦地拿到了毕业证书，每一步都在努力获得A-Level和其他各种资格证书，只为了能拥有他梦想的工作，即帮助他人。但最终，Grant遇到了一个无法逾越的对手。政府——更具体地说，是《地方政府法》。

In 1988, Section 28 passed, and Grant was no longer secure in his position at work. Remus hadn’t really understood it at first, or at least, couldn’t see why Grant should have to worry.
1988年，《第28条》通过，Grant的工作不再有保障。雷穆斯一开始并没有真正理解，或者至少，不明白Grant为什么要担心。

“You don’t work for the council, though,” he frowned, flicking through the leaflets Grant and his friends had been printing for awareness-raising.
“但你不是为议会工作啊，”他皱着眉头，翻阅着Grant和他的朋友们为了提高意识而打印的小册子。

“Yes I do,” Grant replied, “Local authority includes schools and Borstals - and that's what it’s really about. They don’t want us perverting kids.”
“是的，我是，”Grant回答，“地方当局包括学校和少年犯管教所——这就是问题的实质。他们不希望我们‘诱导’孩子。”

“That’s ridiculous.” Remus said.
“这太荒谬了。”雷穆斯说道。

“I know.”
“我知道。”

Remus re-read the text.
雷穆斯重新读了一遍文本。

A local authority shall not intentionally promote homosexuality or publish material with the intention of promoting homosexuality, or promote the teaching in any maintained school of the acceptability of homosexuality as a pretended family relationship.
地方当局不得故意宣扬同性恋或出版旨在宣扬同性恋的材料，或在任何公立学校教授同性恋作为一种假装的家庭关系的可接受性。

“Pretended?!” Remus shook his head.
“假装的？！”雷穆斯摇了摇头。

“I know.” Grant sighed.
“我知道。”Grant叹了口气。

“What does this mean, though? ‘Promote’ homosexuality? How do you promote it?”
“这是什么意思？‘宣扬’同性恋？你怎么宣扬它？”

“Well that’s where the cunts have been clever, innit.” Grant huffed, “It don’t mean anything, not really. Just means if anyone wants to argue against it the fucking Tories can accuse them of wanting to ‘promote’ queerness or some bollocks.”
“这就是那些混蛋聪明的地方。”Grant气喘吁吁地说，“它其实什么都不意味着。只是意味着如果有人想反对它，该死的保守党可以指责他们想要‘宣扬’同性恋或其他废话。”

“But that’s…”
“但这……”

“Completely mental? Evil? Immoral. Yeah. My mate Gay Bob, he’s already had to shut down the Gay Youths Support group, only started that last year. And my place ain’t exempt, the governor's already asking for a list of books we carry, check none of them are too queer.”
“完全疯了？邪恶？不道德。对。我朋友Gay Bob已经不得不关闭同性恋青年支持小组，只是去年才成立的。而且我的地方也不例外，州长已经在要求我们提供所带书籍的清单，确保其中没有太‘同性恋’的书。”

“But they can’t… they wouldn’t sack you?”
“但他们不能……他们不会解雇你吧？”

“I don’t know, love. I’m already trying to keep my head down over the AIDs thing.”
“我不知道，亲爱的。我已经在尽量低调处理艾滋病的事情了。”

Remus felt even worse about that. The staff at the centre Grant worked at had all been hauled into a meeting one day, and told in no uncertain terms that if any one of them contracted HIV, then they would be dismissed without notice - and the police would be notified. That was terrifying enough.
雷穆斯对此感到更加难过。Grant工作的中心的所有员工有一天都被召集到一个会议上，被明确告知如果他们中的任何一人感染了HIV，他们将被无通知解雇——并通知警方。这已经够吓人的了。

For the past eighteen months, Grant had been working tirelessly with his friends and various groups to appeal Section 28, and it wasn’t going well at all. He’d almost been arrested at one protest, and caught a black eye off an anti-protester at another.
在过去的十八个月里，Grant一直和他的朋友们以及各种团体不懈地努力，呼吁废除第28条，但进展非常不顺利。他几乎在一次抗议活动中被逮捕，在另一次抗议中被反抗议者打了黑眼圈。

“It’s war.” he said fiercely, when he returned, and Remus made him sit still so he could heal it, “It’s us and them, that’s how they want it, and that’s what they’ll get.”
“这是战争。”他凶狠地说，当他回来时，雷穆斯让他坐着不动，好让他能治愈，“这是我们和他们，他们就是这么想的，他们会得到他们想要的。”

Remus did not know what to say. He didn’t want a war, he just wanted to be left alone. He never said that, though, because deep down, he was very proud of Grant’s barefaced refusal to give up or give even an inch. He had always admired bravery most of all.
雷穆斯不知道该说什么。他不想要战争，他只想被单独留下。不过，他从来没有说过，因为在心底，他非常为Grant的毫不退让感到骄傲。他一直最钦佩勇气。

So, in late December, Remus and Grant bundled themselves up in woolly hats, gloves and scarves, and walked through the wintry grey city to Oxford Circus. Grant was right - the prat - the lights were great. Strung across the wide street like jungle vines, great gleaming golden bulbs illuminated the cheerful red double deckers, the shiny black cabs, the glorious silver and green window displays.
因此，在十二月底，雷穆斯和Grant裹上毛线帽、手套和围巾，穿过寒冷灰暗的城市走到牛津街口。Grant说得对——那个蠢人——灯光很棒。像丛林藤蔓一样跨过宽阔的街道，巨大的金色灯泡照亮了欢快的红色双层巴士，闪亮的黑色出租车，光辉的银色和绿色橱窗展示。

It was true, Remus had been avoiding Christmas and all its trappings, just like he avoided his birthdays. He was worried they’d send him hurtling backwards - to Hogwarts, to the Potters mansion, to all of his most bittersweet memories. It was very hard to be without his friends at that time of year.
确实，雷穆斯一直在避开圣诞节及其所有装饰品，就像他避开自己的生日一样。他担心这些会让他猛然回到过去——回到霍格沃茨，回到Potters的豪宅，回到他所有最苦乐参半的记忆中。在那段时间里，没有朋友在身边是非常难熬的。

But there was something very cleansing about the chaos of shopping on Oxford Street. The noise and the bustle and the smells ensured that he couldn’t sulk for very long, and Grant’s enthusiasm for the season did the rest.
但是在牛津街购物的混乱中，有一种非常净化的感觉。喧嚣和熙熙攘攘的气味确保了他不能长时间地闷闷不乐，而Grant对这个季节的热情则完成了剩下的部分。

“Right, let’s have a look for Mary’s pressie first, shall we?” He grinned up at Remus, bouncing on the balls of his feet. “House of Fraser? Or is she a Selfridges girl?”
“好吧，我们先看看给Mary的礼物，好吗？”他对雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，脚尖跳动着。“House of Fraser？还是她是Selfridges的女孩？”

“Whichever is trendier, I s’pose,” Remus said. “What did you have in mind?”
“哪个更时尚，我猜，”雷穆斯说。“你有什么想法？”

“Gawd, I’ve no idea. Bath shit?”
“天哪，我不知道。浴室用品？”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, “Bath shit. Or perfume?”
“对，”雷穆斯点点头，“浴室用品。或者香水？”

“Ooh, perfume, eh?” Grant nudged him with his elbow, “That’s intimate. Should I be worried?”
“哦，香水，嗯？”Grant用胳膊肘轻推他，“那很亲密。我该担心吗？”

“About Mary?” Remus snorted, “You’d be too late.”
“关于Mary？”雷穆斯哼了一声，“你太晚了。”

They wandered through the perfume departments of three or four big department stores. Remus somewhat regretted his choice, then - his hypersensitive sense of smell meant that he was already nursing a headache after the first stop.
他们在三四家大百货公司的香水部门闲逛。雷穆斯有些后悔他的选择——他过于敏感的嗅觉意味着他在第一站后就已经头疼了。

He eventually settled on something floral, in a pink and gold bottle, because it was pretty, and stylish, and Mary was pretty and stylish. He even had it gift wrapped, in gold paper with a red satin bow. Gryffindor colours, he smiled to himself.
他最终选了一款花香型的香水，装在一个粉色和金色的瓶子里，因为它漂亮又时尚，而Mary也漂亮又时尚。他甚至把它用金色纸包好，系上红色缎带。格兰芬多的颜色，他自言自语地笑了。

“Right, you can buy my present next,” Grant grinned, tugging his sleeve, “I want new socks, mine have all got holes.”
“好吧，接下来你可以给我买礼物了，”Grant笑着说，拉着他的袖子，“我想要新的袜子，我的袜子都破洞了。”

Remus took a big gulp of cold fresh air as they came outside, relieved. “I’ve got to get you something better than socks,” he said.
雷穆斯大口呼吸着新鲜的冷空气，当他们走到外面时，他松了一口气。“我得给你买点比袜子更好的东西，”他说。

“Could do with some new Y-fronts too.” Grant winked, and Remus blushed, looking down. He’d get something really nice, later on, when Grant wasn’t looking. He wasn’t sure what, yet, and he didn’t have a lot - but maybe a new coat might not stretch things too far? Grant was in dire need of one, his second-hand duffle barely kept the chill off.
“也需要一些新的Y型前开裤。”Grant眨了眨眼，雷穆斯脸红了，低下头。他会在Grant不注意的时候买一些真的很好的东西。他还不确定是什么，而且他也没有很多钱——但也许一件新外套不会太过分？Grant急需一件，他的二手粗呢大衣几乎不能御寒。

“What do you want?” Grant asked, looking at a window display designed to look like the north pole, with big white pillows stacked up to look like igloos and gigantic stuffed toy penguins.
“你想要什么？”Grant问，看着一个设计成北极模样的橱窗展示，堆满了像冰屋一样的大白色枕头和巨大的填充玩具企鹅。

“Chocolate.” Remus shrugged.
“巧克力。”雷穆斯耸耸肩。

“That’s what I always get you…”
“那是我总是给你的……”

“That’s all I want, now I don’t smoke.”
“那是我现在唯一想要的，因为我不抽烟了。”

Grant shook his head, tutting at Remus’s temperance.
Grant摇了摇头，对雷穆斯的节制咂舌。

Suddenly, Remus caught a whiff of magic. For a moment he wondered if his senses were just wrecked by all the perfume, but no, it was very clear. He looked up and down the street, curiously. Then he saw him, standing outside the Marks & Spencer’s window display.
突然，雷穆斯闻到了一丝魔法的气息。他一度怀疑是否是他的感官被所有的香水搞坏了，但不是，气息很清晰。他好奇地上下打量街道。然后他看到了他，站在马莎百货的橱窗展示外。

“Christopher? Is that you?” Remus approached slowly.
“Christopher？是你吗？”雷穆斯慢慢走近。

“Remus!” Christopher turned, surprised.
“雷穆斯！”Christopher转过身来，惊讶地说。

“We have to stop meeting like this,” Remus laughed. He was in a good mood, and at least he hadn’t caught Chris in a compromising situation this time.
“我们得停止这样见面了，”雷穆斯笑了。他心情很好，至少这次他没有抓到Chris在一个尴尬的境地。

“Yes, quite right,” Christopher laughed too, a little nervously, clearing his throat at the end. He was carrying several bulging shopping bags, in both hands. “How are you? Sorry I haven’t been in touch, it’s been ever so busy at work.”
“是的，非常正确，”Christopher也笑了，有点紧张，最后清了清喉咙。他双手提着几个鼓鼓的购物袋。“你好吗？抱歉我一直没有联系，工作太忙了。”

“That’s ok. I’m well,” Remus nodded. Christopher’s eyes flicked towards Grant. Remus remembered his manners, “Sorry, er, this is Grant, my…”
“没关系。我很好，”雷穆斯点点头。Christopher的目光转向Grant。雷穆斯记起了礼貌，“抱歉，呃，这是Grant，我的……”

“Better half.” Grant finished with a cheeky grin, holding out a gloved hand. Christopher looked as though he didn’t know whether to laugh along too, but he shifted his shopping bags to shake Grant’s hand.
“另一半。”Grant调皮地笑着说，伸出戴着手套的手。Christopher看起来不确定是否也要笑，但他换了购物袋来握Grant的手。

“Christopher Barley,” he said.
“Christopher Barley，”他说。

“Chris and I were at school together,” Remus explained.
“Chris和我一起上学的，”雷穆斯解释道。

“Oh, I see,” Grant nodded, eagerly, his eyes bulging. He never said anything about it, but Remus knew Grant was secretly dying to meet another wizard, just to compare. “Live in London, do ya?”
“哦，我明白了，”Grant急切地点头，眼睛瞪得大大的。他从来没有说过什么，但雷穆斯知道Grant暗地里很想见到另一个巫师，只是为了比较一下。“住在伦敦吗？”

“Er, no. Just in for shopping, you know. Christmas.”
“呃，不。只是来购物，你知道的。圣诞节。”

“Us too,” Remus said.
“我们也是，”雷穆斯说。

“How nice.” Chris said very formally. It was starting to get a bit weird - Remus felt like they were at a middle class cocktail party or something, exchanging pleasantries.
“真好。”Chris非常正式地说。事情开始变得有点奇怪了——雷穆斯觉得他们像是在中产阶级的鸡尾酒会上之类的地方，交换客套话。

“Chris dear? There you are!” A short blonde woman came trotting up the street in neat black high heels and a gorgeous ermine coat. She was tugging a little boy along by the hand - he looked about five years old, and he had Christopher’s eyes. “Can we go quite soon? There are too many muggles about, it’s suffocating.”
“亲爱的Chris？你在这里！”一个矮个子金发女人穿着整洁的黑色高跟鞋和华丽的白鼬大衣跑上街来。她牵着一个小男孩——他看起来大约五岁，有着Christopher的眼睛。“我们能快点走吗？这里有太多麻瓜了，令人窒息。”

Christopher avoided Remus’s gaze, and greeted the woman.
Christopher避开雷穆斯的目光，迎接了那个女人。

“Sorry, dear, I was just… I bumped into an old Hogwarts friend.” He gestured vaguely.
“抱歉，亲爱的，我只是……碰到了一位老霍格沃茨的朋友。”他模糊地示意。

“How lovely!” She turned her red-lipped smile on Remus. She held out a tiny hand, and he shook it awkwardly, not sure if he was supposed to kiss it.
“真可爱！”她转向雷穆斯，露出红唇微笑。她伸出一只小手，雷穆斯尴尬地握了握，不确定是否应该吻它。

“Darling, this is Remus, and his friend Grant. Remus… this is Åsa,” Christopher mumbled, “My wife. And Henrik, my son.”
“亲爱的，这是雷穆斯，他的朋友Grant。雷穆斯……这是Åsa，”Christopher含糊地说，“我的妻子。这是Henrik，我的儿子。”

“Pleased to meet you,” Remus nodded. Grant nodded too, but Remus could tell he was uncomfortable.
“很高兴见到你，”雷穆斯点头。Grant也点头，但雷穆斯能看出他不舒服。

“It is a pleasure!” Åsa gushed, “I have to say, I don’t meet so many of Christopher’s school mates. You must come for dinner one evening, and tell me all about his mischiefs!”
“很高兴见到你！”Åsa兴奋地说，“我得说，我不常见到Christopher的校友。你一定要某天晚上来吃晚饭，告诉我他所有的恶作剧！”

“Ha, yeah, definitely,” Remus laughed self-consciously, rubbing the back of his neck. He didn't even know what he was saying. Christopher was married?! He had a kid?!
“哈，是啊，当然，”雷穆斯自觉地笑着，揉了揉脖子后面。他甚至不知道自己在说什么。Christopher结婚了？！他有孩子了？！

“Well, we’d better be going.” Christopher said, his face weirdly blank. “Merry Christmas, Remus.”
“好了，我们该走了。”Christopher说，脸上表情奇怪地空白。“圣诞快乐，雷穆斯。”

“Merry Christmas…” Remus gave an awkward wave, as the family turned to walk away, towards Diagon Alley.
“圣诞快乐……”雷穆斯尴尬地挥了挥手，看着那家人转身离开，朝对角巷走去。

“Is it just me,” Grant said, as they left, “Or was that strange?”
“是我吗，”Grant说，当他们离开时，“还是那很奇怪？”

“Very.” Remus said. “He must have met her in Sweden… He said his family sent him there…”
“非常。”雷穆斯说。“他一定是在瑞典认识她的……他说他的家人把他送到那里……”

“It wasn’t her that was strange.” Grant said.
“不是她奇怪。”Grant说。

“No, I mean…” Remus bit his lip, “Er… so I know Chris from school, but I’ve seen him since. About eighteen months ago, coming out of that sauna in Soho.”
“不，我的意思是……”雷穆斯咬了咬嘴唇，“呃……我从学校认识Chris，但我之后见过他。大约十八个月前，他从Soho的那个桑拿浴室出来。”

“Oh!” Grant said. “Right, I get it. Poor bloke.”
“哦！”Grant说。“对，我明白了。可怜的家伙。”

“He never said anything then… he… how old did the kid look, to you?”
“那时他什么也没说……他……你觉得那个孩子看起来多大？”

“Older than eighteen months.” Grant shrugged.
“超过十八个月。”Grant耸耸肩。

“Yeah…”
“是啊……”

It soon began to rain; icy cold December rain, so they ran for the next bus and went home. Remus often thought about Christopher, after that, and it troubled him. There was nothing much he thought he could do about it, and really it was none of his business - but he didn’t understand at all. Had Christopher been convinced, or coerced? Did he love her, was he happy?
很快开始下雨了；冰冷的十二月雨，他们赶上下一班公交车回家。雷穆斯经常想到Christopher，之后，这让他很困扰。他认为自己没什么能做的，而且真的也不关他的事——但他完全不理解。Christopher是被说服了，还是被胁迫了？他爱她吗，他幸福吗？

By the time he and Grant got in from the rain they were freezing and soaked through. They took a hot shower to warm up, then Remus lit a fire in the old floo connection to heat up the flat for Grant.
当他和Grant从雨中回来时，他们已经冻僵了，浑身湿透。他们洗了个热水澡来暖和一下，然后雷穆斯在旧的飞路连接处点燃了火，为Grant加热公寓。

“How does that work when we ain’t got a chimney?” Grant asked, bringing in the tea.

“Magic.” Remus yawned, as Grant settled down beside him.

“I’m like that bloke in Bewitched married to the sexy blonde.”

“I don’t wiggle my nose though.”

“Aww, now I’ll never leave you alone until you do,” Grant grinned.

Remus gave him a haughty look, and pointed his wand at the radio. They were so cosy, it felt wrong to switch the telly on.

萊姆斯傲慢地看了他一眼，用魔杖指著收音機。他們是如此的舒適，打開電視感覺很不對勁。

"Thanks for coming with me, today." Grant said, wrapping his hands around his mug of tea to warm them, "I know you hate crowds."

"I don't mind, really. Thanks for getting me out of the house. And showing me the lights."

"Any time," Grant snorted. "Always cheers me up, Christmas shopping. Y'know, no one's thinking about themselves - just making other people happy - it's nice."

"I thought you were against the commercialisation of Christmas." Remus commented, wryly. Grant elbowed him,

"I am, but some of it's still nice. Anyway, thought you'd like a break from politics this weekend."

Remus didn't respond, just kissed Grant's cheek, and settled in to listen to the radio. The tail end of a Suzanne Vega song was playing. “Love this tune,” Grant murmured, leaning against his shoulder, “Love her voice, all clear and weird, you know what I mean?”

“It’s a greek myth,” Remus replied, drowsily, “Odysseus.”

“Nah, it’s something beginning with a C,” Grant replied, sipping his tea.

“Yes, Calypso - she’s the siren, but Odysseus is the main character.”

“Siren? Isn’t that like a mermaid?”

“Sort of. They lure men in with their singing.”

“Are they real?” Grant asked. He always wanted to know.

“Yes, mermaids are. I don’t know if Calypso was.”

“So what did she do? They fell in love, or what?”

“Odysseus’s story is called The Odyssey. It’s all about his journey home from the Trojan War.” Remus furrowed his brow, trying to remember. It was Homer - he'd read that in his second year, either before or after The Epic of Gilgamesh, he couldn't remember. He hadn't really liked The Odyssey - he'd preferred The Illiad, because that had all the good war stuff in it. Maybe he'd feel different now, as an adult.
“奥德修斯的故事叫《奥德赛》。它讲的是他从特洛伊战争回家的旅程。”雷穆斯皱起眉头，试图回忆。这是荷马的作品——他在二年级时读过，不记得是在《吉尔伽美什史诗》之前还是之后读的。他当时并不太喜欢《奥德赛》——他更喜欢《伊利亚特》，因为里面有很多精彩的战争内容。也许现在作为成年人会有不同的感觉。

“The Trojans... are they the ones with the wooden horse?” Grant asked, still trying to follow the thread.
“特洛伊人……他们是用木马的那群人吗？”Grant问，仍在努力跟上话题。

“Yeah, that’s right. Odysseus gets into all sorts of trouble as he tries to get home to his wife, Penelope. But the sea god gets angry with him about something - can't remember what, but he destroys Odysseus’s ship, and he washes up on this island, where Calypso lives. She falls in love with him and holds him hostage for seven years.”

“对，就是他们。奥德修斯在试图回家见妻子佩内洛普的途中遇到了各种麻烦。但海神因为某些事情生气了——我不记得是什么了，但他摧毁了奥德修斯的船，奥德修斯被冲上了卡吕普索居住的岛上。她爱上了他，并把他囚禁了七年。”

“What does she do to him?”

“Oh, I dunno. Feeds him, heals his wounds and stuff. I think she dances a lot.”

“She doesn’t sound too bad. She sounds kind.”

“Maybe. But she wants to make him immortal, and Odysseus wants to get back to Penelope. Calypso isn’t his true love.”

“Sort of sad.” Grant huffed, sounding put out.

“It’s just a story.” Remus shrugged. 

Chapter 176~180Chapter Summary

176. 1983 (2018-10-16)
177. 1985 (2018-10-19)
178. 1986 (2018-10-22)
179. 1987 (2018-10-25)
180. 1989 (2018-10-29)

Chapter 176: 1983These people 'round here

Wear beat down eyes sunk in smoke dried faces

They're resigned to what their fate is.

But not us, (no never) no not us (no never)

We are far too young and clever.

 

6th June 1983

“Sometimes I wonder if you’re using me.” Grant said, one afternoon in the summer of 1983.

“We all use each other.” Remus replied, dryly, “And that’s what we think love is.”

“Christ. Can’t talk to you when you’re like this.” Grant sighed heavily, reaching for a packet of cigarettes on the bedside table.

“Like what?”

“A gloomy git.”“一个阴郁的家伙。”

Grant pulled a long white cylinder from the box with his teeth, and Remus lit it with his wand point. Grant sucked on it appreciatively, settling back against Remus’s body, in the crook of his arm. Remus lazily stroked Grant’s collar bone until it was his turn to smoke. They’d almost given up; sharing a quick post-sex fag was their treat.

 

Grant用牙齿从盒子里抽出一根长白色香烟，Remus用魔杖点燃了它。Grant欣赏地吸了一口，靠在Remus的身体上，躺在他的手臂弯里。Remus懒洋洋地抚摸着Grant的锁骨，直到轮到他自己抽烟。他们几乎放弃了；共享一根快速的性爱后的烟是他们的小奖赏。

“Sorry.” Remus said, “I don’t mean to be gloomy.”

“Pfft.” Grant replied, cheerfully, “Be gloomy if you want, I’m only teasin' ya. ”

Grant made everything so easy. Remus could barely remember when their relationship had grown into what it was now.

...

It had started with the regular visits, after that first intervention. They’d grown more frequent, and eventually Grant was just there all the time - first he slept on the couch, and then he didn’t anymore, and it was never discussed again.

By midsummer 1982, he’d moved all of his belongings in - such that they were.

“I travel light,” he winked, shaking out a rucksack that contained a few clean pairs of underwear and some t-shirts. One sock. For god’s sake.“我旅行轻便，”他眨眼说道，摇了摇一个背包，里面只有几条干净的内裤和几件T恤。还有一只袜子。天哪。

“I’ll give you some money.” Remus said, monotonously. “You can go shopping.” He still had a few hundred pounds Sirius had converted to muggle money in case of emergencies. Remus didn’t feel guilty about spending it; it was just sitting there.“我会给你一些钱。”Remus单调地说，“你可以去购物。”他还有几百英镑是Sirius兑换的麻瓜货币，以备紧急情况。Remus对花这些钱不感到内疚；反正就那么放着。

“I’m not here to scrounge off you.” Grant insisted.

“我不是来向你乞讨的。”Grant坚持道。

“I know. But you need clothes.”

“Yes mum. I’ll borrow some of yours for a bit, ‘til I get myself sorted.”

“Fine.”

 

 

So Remus went to Debenhams by himself one afternoon and bought as much as he could in Grant’s size. Jeans and t-shirts and underwear and socks and jumpers, pyjamas and even a cheap pair of trainers that were on offer. Bright colours, because Grant was a bright person, and Remus had seen enough black to last a lifetime. He folded it all away in the chest of drawers. It felt good to fill them; they’d been standing half-empty for over a year.
于是，Remus在一个下午独自去了Debenhams，尽可能多地购买了适合Grant的衣物。包括牛仔裤、T恤、内裤、袜子、毛衣、睡衣，甚至还买了一双打折的便宜运动鞋。鲜艳的颜色，因为Grant是一个阳光的人，而Remus已经看够了黑色。他把所有东西都折好放进抽屉里。填满这些抽屉感觉很好；它们已经空了超过一年。

Grant wore the clothes, but they never discussed it.
Grant穿上了这些衣服，但他们从未讨论过这件事。

There were some things they could not avoid talking about, though.
不过，有些话题是他们无法避免讨论的。

Remus hadn’t been doing magic at all for the first few months—actually, he found that he couldn’t, a lot of the time; even when he tried. Perhaps the grief. All those funerals. It may have had more to do with his drinking, though he couldn’t be sure. There was a block there; like a wall had gone up. He could apparate for full moons, but that was the extent of it. Then one day, it just came back, as if it had never left him.
在最初的几个月里，Remus完全没有做魔法——实际上，他发现他很多时候都做不了魔法，即使他尝试过。也许是因为悲伤，所有那些葬礼。虽然他不确定，但这可能与他的饮酒有关。魔法似乎被封锁了；仿佛墙已经竖起来了。他能在满月时使用瞬移，但这就是极限了。然后有一天，它突然回来了，仿佛从未离开过他。

They’d forgotten to pay the electric, and the lights went dead. Without thinking, Remus lit his wand,
他们忘记付电费，灯光熄灭了。Remus毫不犹豫地点亮了他的魔杖，

“ Lumos .”

“What the bloody fuck is that?!” Grant leapt away as if Remus had set himself on fire.

“Er…” Remus swallowed, then resigned himself to it. “It’s a magic wand.”

“Are you high?”

Remus laughed, a gruff, alien sound.

“I think I’d better explain some stuff to you. The school I went to was a bit… different…”

He began to explain. He knew how weird it must all sound, and he had to leave quite a lot of stuff out. Almost twenty minutes later, Grant sat staring at him, face pale in the weakening wandlight.

“You’re having me on.” He laughed, nervously, “What are you playing at, making up a load of tosh like that?!”

“Grant… look...” Remus made sparks with his wand. He levitated the coffee table, and then - showing off, because it had been so long - transformed his mug into a frog.

“All right!” Grant recoiled, as the frog hopped onto the carpet, “Ok, I believe you! Jesus Christ!”

“Oh, just ‘Remus Lupin’ will do.” Remus stuck his tongue out.

Then he stopped, realised what he was doing.

He’d stopped hurting for a moment, and chastised himself viciously for it. Your friends are dead, and you’re doing magic tricks for some muggle? Pathetic.

He went to look in the cupboards for a drink.

“Oh no, don’t…” Grant said, sounding disappointed.

Remus returned to the couch with a bottle of vodka and two tumblers. He liked vodka the most, it went down easy.

“I don’t want any.” Grant said, ignoring the second glass. “I’m going to stop getting it for you.”

Remus shrugged and knocked back his first measure.

Grant sighed. “So you’re a wizard, eh? Does that mean… Sirius was a wizard, too?”

Remus nearly choked on his second shot, but got it down. His eyes watered and he nodded.

 

“Yeah. We all are. Were.”

And he drank more, and told Grant about the war. He left out some of the more painful details, but Grant was astute, and guessed the rest.

于是他喝得更多，把战争的事告诉了Grant。他省略了一些更痛苦的细节，但Grant很聪明，猜出了其余的部分。

“Is that where you vanish off to, every month?” Grant asked, “Some magic thing?”

“Oh… no. There’s something else.”

“Bloody hell, Remus, do I know anything about you?!”

“Sorry.” Remus said. “Honestly, I’m really not worth the effort… once you know everything, you’ll understand.”

“Try me.” Grant said.

So then they had the werewolf conversation. Remus explained what happened to him on full moons, and how dangerous he was, and where he went.

“Since you were five?!” Grant said, aghast.

“Yeah.” Remus nodded, nervously.

“You poor thing,” Grant shook his head, and stroked his hand. “You’ve had a rough go of it, ‘aven’t ya?”

Remus accepted the sympathy, and didn’t say too much about Castor, because he was ashamed of himself.

Not that Grant would have been jealous. Not like Sirius, not like… oh, oh no, no no no...

...

“Oi!”

Back in the present, Grant snapped his fingers. He held up the cigarette, half smoked. “Your turn, gorgeous.”

“Sorry.” Remus took it, and inhaled deeply. Ah. They were still in bed. Everything was ok. Everything is ok.

“You drifted away from me, there.” Grant commented, without accusation.
“你刚才有点疏远我。”Grant评论道，语气中没有指责。

“Sorry,” Remus said again.

“Penny for ‘em?”

“Oh, nothing. Just thinking.” He stubbed out the cigarette. Fucking hell he missed smoking.

“Well.” Grant rolled over, lying half on top of Remus, face centimetres away, “ That’s no good, is it? I was trying to stop you from thinking.”

“You do.” Remus smiled. They kissed, friendly at first, then deeper. Remus slid his hands up Grant’s long body. “Want to try again?”

Grant smiled against his lips,  murmuring,

“You just want another fag, doncha?”

“I want you , too…”

“Well, tough luck,” Grant pulled away, pushing himself off Remus, off the bed. “Last shift at the pub starts in forty minutes, already gonna have to leg it.”
“哎，真倒霉。”Grant拉开距离，推开Remus，从床上站起来。“最后一班在酒吧开始了，四十分钟后就得赶过去了。”

“Do you have to?” Remus flopped back on the bed, petulant.
“非得这样吗？”Remus倒在床上，带着些许撒娇。

 

“Oh, don’t whinge, princess, it's only one more evening. Oi, be good and stay off the booze and I’ll do something really nice when I get in.”
“别抱怨了，小公主，这只是一个晚上而已。喂，乖乖的，别喝酒，我回来后会做点真的很好的事情。”

“I’ll be asleep.”

“I’ll wake you up.”

Remus smirked. “Ok then.”

Grant made everything so easy.

He tried to stay off the drink that night, he really did. But he needed something , or else how would he ever sleep? And he definitely didn’t smoke, so that was pretty good. He wanted to be good, for Grant’s last night at the pub.

After getting three A-levels in Social Policy, Politics and Education, then studying for months for further exams, Grant had qualified as a social worker. He was beginning a placement at a boys remand centre the following week. Remus didn’t know where he got the balls for it.在获得社会政策、政治和教育三门A-level后，Grant经过几个月的进一步考试学习，终于成为了一名社会工作者。他下周将开始在一个男孩拘留中心实习。Remus不知道他从哪里获得了这样的勇气。

“It’ll be like doing St Edmunds all over again!”

“No it won’t,” Grant smiled, “It’ll be different, because I’ll make it different.”

* * *

 

They were pretty happy together. They had their moments, anyway, but they were always friends before lovers and neither of them were faithful.

Grant had plenty of other boyfriends in his never-ending quest for variety. They might be arty types, with long hair and camp affectations. Or earnest, political sorts, in baggy khaki fatigues and thick knitted jumpers, campaigning for nuclear disarmament or gay and lesbian rights, or the miners or something. Remus watched them come and go with a distant interest. He didn’t begrudge Grant – he knew he was hardly a barrel of laughs to be with.
Grant在他永无止境的寻求多样性的过程中，有许多其他的男朋友。他们可能是有长发和夸张举止的艺术家类型。或者是认真政治型的，穿着宽松的卡其布军裤和厚毛衣，为核裁军、同性恋权益、矿工或其他某些事情而奔走。Remus对他们的来去只是冷漠地关注，他并不怨恨Grant——他知道自己和他在一起也不容易。

Remus himself had become excellent at dividing his life up into neat segments with razor-sharp edges. Castor was a bad habit; Grant was everything else. Then there was Sirius’s spectre, looming over the whole thing, making sure he was never really happy with either of them.
Remus自己已经非常擅长将生活分成清晰的部分。Castor是一个坏习惯；Grant则是其他所有的一切。然后就是Sirius的幽灵，笼罩在一切之上，确保他永远不会真正对他们中的任何一个感到快乐。

“You could stay, brother,” Castor said, every time.
“你可以留下，兄弟，”Castor每次都这样说。

 

“Can you not call me ‘brother’ right after you’ve been fucking me?” Remus snapped. He was often rude to Castor, and Castor was rough with him right back. Remus wasn’t sure if it was a wolf thing or a self-punishment thing, but he tried not to analyse the arrangement too much.
“你能不能在刚刚和我做完后不要叫我‘兄弟’？”Remus怒斥道。他经常对Castor无礼，而Castor则同样粗暴地回应他。Remus不确定这是否是狼的习性还是自我惩罚，但他尽量不去过多分析这种安排。

“Remus Lupin, then.” Castor replied.

“It’s just Remus .” He grunted, getting up to dress himself. “And you know I can’t stay. I’ve got a life back in England.”

“You say that,” Castor raised an eyebrow, “But I see no evidence. We would care for you here.”

“I don’t trust any of you as far as I could throw you.” Remus said flatly, buttoning up his jeans.

“And yet you return each month…”

“Yeah, well, that’s just for this,” Remus gestured at Castor’s naked body, reclining back on grey furs - he was absolutely perfect in every way, a Greek statue, lithe and muscular and delicious. “Let’s not start pretending we like each other.”
“嗯，好吧，这只是为了这个，”Remus指了指Castor裸露的身体，他躺在灰色的皮毛上——他在各方面都是完美的，就像一尊希腊雕像，柔韧、肌肉发达、诱人。“别开始假装我们喜欢彼此。”

“But we are your pack!” Castor protested.
“但我们是你的狼群！”Castor抗议道。

 

“Look, I’ll stop coming at all, if you don’t leave off.” Remus gritted his teeth. He did stop going, for two months after that, just to make Castor suffer.
“听着，如果你不停止，我会完全不来。”Remus咬紧牙关说道。他确实停止去了两个月，只是为了让Castor受苦。

Remus didn’t need a pack, and he certainly didn’t need friends.

Sometimes Mary tried to get in touch, sometimes he let her. But it was hard, so very hard. He preferred Grant, and their modest muggleish life together.

And really, though their life was not one Remus had ever imagined living, it was hardly empty. Remus took up various odd jobs - cleaning, mostly; or courier work快遞, because it was cash-in-hand no one cared if he stopped showing up.

Grant studied for his licence and always had students around, debating in the living room, preparing for another protest against Poll Tax or for nuclear disarmament. They made a huge mess of the living room painting banners and nailing together placards, but Remus didn’t mind a bit of chaos.

 

He liked the girls Grant invited over better than he liked the boys - they were all so vibrant, so passionate, with punky green hair and boyish, mischievous attitudes. He didn't care much for the causes, but the conversation was always lively. At times he felt he was speaking to Mary, or Marlene, or Lily. Then he would slow down, and he’d need a drink. He would stand quietly in the kitchen until they all left.

“Oh, Remus. You can’t just wander off and get pissed every time you’re sad.” Grant sighed one night, when he found Remus slumped over the kitchen table, hours after everyone had left.
“哦，Remus。你不能每次伤心的时候就走开喝酒。”Grant叹了口气，有一天晚上，他发现Remus瘫倒在厨房的桌子上，大家都离开好几个小时了。

“I am sad.” Remus sobbed.

“I know you are mate,” Grant bent down and pulled Remus’s arm over his shoulder, hoisting him up towards bed. “And you’re allowed to be sad. It's the drink we’ve got the problem with, eh?”

“No one owes you a happy life." Remus mournfully parroted Matron’s old adage as they swayed down the hall together.

 

"No," Grant huffed, setting him into bed. He looked down at Remus pityingly, "But you owe yourself one, love.”

Notes: 

Song at the beginning is 'Come on Eileen' by Dexys Midnight Runners.

British dictionary:
- Debenhams - National chain of department stores. Every mum's favourite.
- Trainers - Sneakers/tennis shoes/runners/kicks
- 'Penny for 'em?' - Penny for your thoughts (i.e. 'tell me what you're thinking').
- Boys' Remand Centre - Criminal detention centre for boys under 17.
- Poll Tax - Brought in by Margaret Thatcher and the Conservative government in the '80s, this tax paid for Local Government (now called 'Council Tax'). Before 1979, this was paid by each household based on the market rental value of the property. The Poll Tax was a flat rate per person - meaning that the burden of payment shifted from wealthy home owners to poor renters. It was massively unfair and resulted in nationwide protests and rioting.

As I mentioned (on tumblr maybe?) as long as my mood stays like this, I'm hoping to crack out a chapter every day now until we're done. Approx. ten days :)

 

Chapter 177: 1985 

 I've been loving you a long time;

Down all the years, down all the days.

And I've cried for all your troubles,

Smiled at your funny little ways.

We watched our friends grow up together

And we saw them as they fell.

Some of them fell into heaven,

Some of them fell into hell.

 Remus liked a lot of things about Grant. His smile, his corkscrew blond curls, his brash, unapologetic sense of humour. Grant was a likeable person. But there was one thing Remus absolutely refused to tolerate.

Remus喜欢Grant的很多方面。他的笑容，他那卷曲的金发，他那无所畏惧的幽默感。Grant是个可爱的人。但是有一件事，Remus绝对无法容忍。

Grant loved football. He wasn’t a fanatic, but he definitely had more of an interest than Remus really felt was necessary. He supported Queens Park Rangers - and even bought himself a knock-off kit t-shirt one year, plus the blue and white striped scarf. Never one to simply observe, Grant was an occasional gambler too, and on Saturdays he played on a gay men’s team away down in South London.
Grant非常喜欢足球。他不是一个狂热者，但他对足球的兴趣远超了Remus觉得必要的程度。他支持Queens Park Rangers，甚至还买过一件假冒的队服T恤，加上蓝白条纹的围巾。Grant从不只是旁观者，他偶尔还会赌博，每到周六，他会在南伦敦的一个同性恋男子足球队比赛。

That was how he met Neil Newman - a tall, good looking football player with spiky hair and thighs you could crack walnuts on - and how Remus met Anthea Luong; Neil’s part-time girlfriend.
这就是他认识Neil Newman的方式——一个高大、英俊的足球运动员，头发蓬松，腿部肌肉强壮得可以用来砸核桃——也是Remus认识Anthea Luong的方式；Neil的兼职女友。

“Part-time?!” Remus raised an eyebrow when Grant explained. He was tying up his boot laces, ready to go for practice one Saturday and Neil was coming to pick him up.
“兼职？！”当Grant解释时，Remus挑了挑眉。他正在系鞋带，准备去练习，一周六的时候，Neil来接他。

“It’s not that unusual,” Grant winked at him, Remus took the point.

“But if Neil’s queer --” Remus tried. Grant lifted a finger,

“Get with the times, sunshine - queer’s out. We are Gay Men, and we are proud.”

Remus rolled his eyes, “Whatever. If Neil’s a Gay Man , then how does Anthea fit in?”

“I reckon he must be bicentennial.”

“You mean bisexual.” Remus corrected.

“No, he’s two hundred years old,” Grant poked his tongue out. “Yes, Mr Literal, bisexual .”

Remus couldn’t really blame Neil for that, once he’d met her too. Anthea was a very attractive girl. She was tiny and springy, with long satin black hair and glittering eyes. Her mouth was like a rosebud, and she had the most beautiful skin Remus had ever seen. She dressed like Cindy Lauper, all frills and dayglo.
Remus在见到她之后，也不能真的责怪Neil。Anthea是个非常迷人的女孩。她身材娇小而灵活，长长的黑色缎发，眼睛闪闪发光。她的嘴巴像一个花蕾，她拥有Remus见过的最美丽的皮肤。她穿着像Cindy Lauper那样，满是荷叶边和亮眼的色彩。

“So nice to meet you,” she grinned, stretching up on her tiptoes to kiss Remus’s cheek in greeting. Neil just gave him a slightly wary nod - Remus was used to that, from Grant’s paramours.
“很高兴见到你，”她咧嘴一笑，踮起脚尖亲吻了Remus的脸颊。Neil只是给了他一个略带警惕的点头——Remus已经习惯了，来自Grant的情人们。

“Tea, everybody?” Grant offered.

“Nah, we’d better get going.” Neil said, rather pointedly, Remus thought. “Want to get there early, don’t we? Warm up.”

“Is that what you call it?” Anthea stuck her tongue out at him. “Remus, can I stay here with you? I’ve got so much I want to talk to you about.”

“You have?!” He stared at her, alarmed. He hadn’t even known Neil had a girlfriend until ten minutes ago.

“Oh yeah, I told Anth here how good you are at astrology.” Grant said cheerfully, pulling his denim jacket on. It looked silly, in shorts and long socks, but everything football related was ridiculous to Remus.
“哦，对了，我告诉Anthea你在占星术方面很厉害。”Grant兴高采烈地说道，穿上了他的牛仔夹克。在短裤和长袜的搭配下看起来有点傻，但对于Remus来说，所有与足球相关的东西都是可笑的。

“Astro nomy .” Remus said, “Very different things…”
“是‘天文学’。”Remus说道，“这完全是两回事……”

“S’all stars and that, innit?”
“都是星星什么的，不是吗？”

“Well…” he didn’t really have an argument.
“嗯……”他确实没有什么反驳的理由。

“See you lads! Have fun!” Anthea waved at them both, pushing them out of the door. Suddenly Remus was alone with a strange young woman, with no idea why. He really wanted a drink.
“再见了，伙计们！玩得开心！”Anthea向他们俩挥手，把他们推出了门。突然间，Remus和一个陌生的年轻女子独处，他不知道为什么。 他真的很想喝酒。

“You don’t have a TV.” She said, flatly.
“你没有电视。”她平淡地说道。

“No.” Remus agreed.
“没有。”Remus同意道。

“Great flat, though!” She was saying, walking around the room, looking out of the window, pulling books off the shelf and scanning the covers, “So nice you live in Chinatown - do you speak Chinese?”
“不过这个公寓真不错！”她一边说，一边在房间里走来走去，望向窗外，抽出书架上的书，翻看封面，“你住在中国城真好——你会说中文吗？”

“Er… no…?”
“呃……不会……？”

“I do, I speak three languages, actually, Chinese, Vietnamese and English. English is my mother tongue, Vietnamese is my mother’s tongue, if you get me.” she winked at him, “And Neil always says I ought to say I speak four languages, because I chat so much shit.” She laughed - it was a bit of an ugly, jangly laugh, like coins falling on sheet metal, but she laughed with such conviction that it was endearing anyway.
“我会的，其实我会说三种语言，中文、越南语和英语。英语是我的母语，越南语是我妈妈的母语，你懂我的意思。”她对Remus眨了眨眼，“Neil总是说我应该说我会四种语言，因为我总是唠叨。”她笑了——这笑声有点刺耳，像硬币落在铁板上，但她的笑容如此真诚，仍然让人觉得可爱。

“Right.” Remus nodded. “Er… sorry, did you want to know something about astronomy?”

“Maybe. I’m a Virgo, what are you?”

“Uhh… Pisces, I think?”

“Do they go together?” She asked. He blinked,

“No. I mean, I don’t know. I mean… like I said, that’s really astrology, not--”

“Neil’s a capricorn, and they don’t go with virgos, I checked. I always check. But, y’know, the heart wants what it wants. You know they’re shagging?” she said, out of nowhere, “Him and Grant?”

“I guessed…”

“Do you mind it? You’re Grant’s live in, aren’t you?”

Remus nodded, though he privately corrected her - Grant was his live in, not the other way around. “We’re pretty casual, though.”

“Oh that’s good,” she nodded, earnestly.

“Look, um… how long are you staying?” Remus scratched his head awkwardly.

“Just til the boys get back from footie,” she smiled, “That's ok, isn’t it? Grant said you’d like the company. Ooh, I tell you what, I’d love a cup of tea.”

“就等那些男孩从足球训练回来，”她微笑着说，“这没问题吧？Grant说你会喜欢有陪伴。我跟你说，我很想喝杯茶。”

“Um. Ok…” He went to put the kettle on, still confused. What was Grant playing at, leaving him to babysit his lover’s girlfriend?! As if Remus had nothing better to do on a Saturday. He’d planned to read the paper. Maybe catch up with the Archers on the radio.
“嗯，好吧……”他去把水壶放上，仍然感到困惑。Grant是什么意思，把他留在这里照看他情人的女朋友？！就好像Remus在周六没有更好的事情可做一样。他原本计划读报纸，也许还要听听广播剧《The Archers》。

“No sugar, no milk!” Anthea called. “Oooh, can I put a record on?”

“If you like…”

She put on a Queen album. Remus sighed to himself. He wasn’t a fan, really, but Grant couldn’t get enough.

When he brought the tea through, Anthea was sitting on the couch, leaning over the coffee table rolling a joint. She grinned at him, “Fancy it?”

“Go on then,” Remus agreed. Well, that was better than nothing.

They smoked and drank tea and listened to Queen, and Anthea rabbited on, asking all sorts.

“Grant says you're really clever, private school and everything.”

“Yeah.” Remus shrugged.

“And you know all about constellations, and things like that. Hey, I can read your tarot cards, if you like?”

“No thanks.”

“How come you’ve got all those scars?”  

He blinked, caught off guard. She was still smiling prettily, and seemed genuinely curious about him.

“Just got a lot of scars.” He said, swallowing. “Do you fancy a gin and tonic?” He didn’t actually have tonic, but he could pretend he’d just forgotten and take it neat.

“Yeah, why not,” she nodded brightly. He got up, and she followed him into the kitchen, still talking, “You're not ill or anything, then?”

“No.” Remus said. “I got them fighting. Some of them I did myself.”

“Oh you poor thing.” She said, her sympathy genuine. She leaned forward and squeezed his arm kindly. “Sorry to ask, love, you just can’t be too careful, nowadays, do you know what I mean?”

“Mm.” He poured the gin into two tumblers. He did know exactly what she meant, and he didn’t want to talk about it. Or think about it.

She didn’t complain when he handed her a tumbler of straight gin, just clicked their glasses together and beamed, “Cheers!” then took a good gulp.

They went back to the couch. Remus took the bottle.

“You’re ever so tall, Remus. What are you, six three?”

“Six two.”

“I love tall men.” She purred.

“Me too.”

Anthea laughed again at that, her plastic earrings clicking together. She chatted even more, telling him silly, nonsense things about herself; where she’d been to school, her favourite songs on the radio, every film she’d ever seen at the pictures. “And I love a bit of dancing, too, that's how I met Neil, dancing down in Vauxhall. Shall I show you? Ok, you have to picture me in this sparkly purple dress, right? And my hair was shorter then.”

She got up and began to dance to the record.

Ooh love,

Ooh loverboy

What're you doin' tonight, hey boy

Set my alarm, turn on my charm

That's because I'm a good old-fashioned lover boy

Remus didn’t need to picture the sparkly dress; she was a very good dancer. She twisted and wriggled with sensual energy, throwing flirtatious looks at him and flicking her hips. Stoned and relaxed, Remus slouched on the sofa watching her. She was dreamlike, pretty and graceful, but also overwhelmingly and unignorably real. Remus wondered why he always ended up stuck with chatterboxes, and why on earth he liked it so much.
Remus不需要想象那条闪闪发光的裙子；她是一个非常好的舞者。她扭动着身体，充满了感性的能量，向他抛出调皮的目光，摇摆着臀部。沉醉于麻醉药和放松中，Remus倚靠在沙发上看着她。她如同梦境般美丽而优雅，但也压倒性地、无法忽视地真实。Remus想知道为什么他总是被那些喋喋不休的人困住，以及为什么他竟然如此喜欢这种感觉。

The song ended, and she held her arms aloft like a gymnast who had just completed a perfect routine. Remus smiled, despite himself, and applauded.
歌曲结束时，她高举双臂，像刚完成完美体操动作的体操运动员一样。Remus虽然不情愿，但还是微笑了，并鼓掌。

“Fancy a dance?” She fluttered her eyelashes flirtatiously. Remus couldn’t help it; whatever she had rolled him was stronger than he was used to, and he was charmed by her.
“想跳舞吗？”她调皮地眨了眨眼。Remus忍不住了；无论她给他卷的是什么，比他习惯的更强烈，他被她迷住了。

“Go on, then.”
“那就跳吧。”

He didn’t really dance, but he held her hands as she did, twirling her in the right places, and letting her fall into his arms, giggling. She had the most delicate wrists, the bones fine like a bird's.
他其实并不真正跳舞，但他握住她的手，让她在合适的地方旋转，并让她跌进他的怀抱中，咯咯笑着。她的手腕非常细腻，骨头像鸟儿一样纤细。

When they finally collapsed on the couch to smoke another joint, she kicked off her shoes and laid her legs over his lap. Grant did that sometimes; they only had the one sofa, so it was the only way to stretch out.
当他们最后倒在沙发上抽另一支大麻烟时，她脱掉了鞋子，把腿搭在他的腿上。Grant有时候也这样做；他们只有一张沙发，所以这是唯一可以伸展的方式。

“You’re very handsome, Remus.” She said through the smoke.
“你很帅，Remus。”她在烟雾中说道。

“Ha.” He replied, knocking back the last of his gin. He couldn’t pour any more without pushing her legs off, and he didn’t want to do that, so he settled for the joint.
“哈。”他回答道，喝下最后一杯金酒。他不能再倒酒而不把她的腿推开，而他不想那样做，所以他拿起了大麻烟。

“You are. You’re very sexy.”
“你确实很性感。”

“Shh.” He chuckled. “Who do you think you are? Showing up in my flat unannounced and interrogating me.”
“嘘。”他笑了，“你以为你是谁？不请自来地出现在我家，还盘问我。”

“Am I interrogating you?” She widened her eyes, “Are you succumbing to my techniques?”
“我在盘问你吗？”她睁大了眼睛，“你在屈服于我的技巧吗？”

Remus laughed, creasing over, his hands on her legs—they were so smooth and soft. She was giggling too, watching him. Her eyes were so dark and so full of life. He wanted her. Remus realized it all of a sudden, like a light being turned on—the room was brighter, her face clearer. Bloody hell.
Remus笑了，身体弯曲着，手放在她的腿上——它们如此光滑柔软。她也在咯咯笑，注视着他。她的眼睛非常深邃而充满生气。他想要她。Remus突然意识到，就像灯光被打开了——房间变得更亮，她的脸也更清晰了。见鬼。

He finished the joint. She wriggled down on the couch and closed her eyes contentedly. He left his hands on her legs—just resting there, he didn’t want to grab her or anything awful like that. He just wanted… what? What did you do with a girl? Mary was almost a decade ago, and it wasn’t as if Remus had really played much of a role there. He’d mostly just felt surprised she had picked him.
他抽完了大麻烟。她在沙发上蜷缩下来，满意地闭上了眼睛。他把手放在她的腿上——只是放着，他不想抓她或做其他可怕的事。他只是想要……什么？你和女孩做什么？Mary的事情几乎发生在十年前，而Remus并没有真正发挥过多作用。他大多只是感到惊讶她会选择他。

 

He felt like that now, too, as Anthea opened her eyes and smiled at him again.
现在他也有这种感觉，Anthea再次睁开眼睛，对他微笑。

“Sorry, did you want to lie down too?”

“What?” Remus’s back prickled, alarmed. We're they really going to?! “No! I mean… er…”

“You’re so lovely,” she grinned, shifting aside and pulling him down beside her, “Let’s just lie together for a bit, it's nice, isn’t it?”

“Mm…”

She put her arm across him. Her soft black hair tickled under his nose, and he couldn’t help but inhale her scent. It was warm and sort of spicy, like clove or cinnamon. He liked it. They lay for a bit, like that. The record had finished, and was just turning on its needle, crackling.
她把手臂搭在他身上。她柔软的黑发在他的鼻子下轻轻痒痒，他忍不住吸入她的香气。那种香气温暖而带有些许香料味，像丁香或肉桂。他喜欢这种味道。他们就这样躺了一会儿。唱片已经结束，正转动在唱针上，发出噼啪声。

“What do you think Neil and Grant are doing now?” Anthea whispered, her hand suddenly on his belt, palm flat against his crotch. “Probably in the showers, do you reckon?”
“你觉得Neil和Grant现在在干什么？”Anthea低声问，她的手突然放在他的腰带上，手掌平贴在他的裆部。“你认为他们可能在洗澡吗？”

“Um.” Remus said, speechless.
“嗯。”Remus说，语塞。

“You ought to see Neil with his kit off, he’s an Adonis. I mean, he’s a dickhead, but you can forget all about it when he gets going - I bet they’re all sweaty, and muddy from the pitch.”
“你应该看看Neil脱掉衣服的样子，他是个阿多尼斯。我的意思是，他是个混蛋，但当他兴奋的时候你会忘记这一切——我敢打赌他们都满身汗水，满是泥巴。”

Remus tried to regulate his breathing, but she kept moving her hand, and he was finding it hard to concentrate on anything else. Finally she looked up at him, and kissed his lips very tenderly. “Do you fancy it?”
Remus试图调整呼吸，但她不断移动手，导致他难以集中注意力。最后她抬头看着他，轻轻吻了吻他的嘴唇。“你想要吗？”

“Yeah,” Remus breathed, “Go on, then.”
“嗯，”Remus喘息道，“那就来吧。”

Anthea was in the shower, two hours later, when Grant and Neil walked in the door. Remus was still sprawled on the couch in his underpants, flushed and completely stunned.
两小时后，当Grant和Neil走进门时，Anthea正在洗澡。Remus仍然穿着内裤，趴在沙发上，脸红且完全震惊。

Grant did a double take, and then burst out laughing. Neil looked appalled. He marched into the bathroom and demanded Anthea get out at once.
Grant惊讶地瞪了一眼，然后大笑了起来。Neil看起来震惊不已。他直奔浴室，要求Anthea立刻出来。

“You slag!” Grant wheezed at Remus, doubled over laughing.
“你个贱人！”Grant对着Remus喘息道，笑得弯下了腰。

“Bye Grant, bye Remus!” Anthea called as she and Neil hurried out. He had a face like thunder, and the door slammed hard behind them.
“再见Grant，再见Remus！”Anthea一边叫道，一边和Neil匆忙离开。他的脸色阴沉，门在他们身后猛地关上了。

“Well then.” Grant said, composing himself. “I hope your girlfriend hasn’t used up all the hot water.”
“那好吧。”Grant说，整理好自己的状态。“我希望你的女朋友没用完所有热水。”

“I really don’t know why that happened.” Remus said, pulling his t-shirt on. “We were just listening to records, and she was talking, and then…”
“我真的不知道为什么会发生那种事。”Remus说，穿上他的T恤。“我们只是听唱片，她在说话，然后……”

“What, it was the only way to shut her up?”
“什么，只有这样才能让她闭嘴吗？”

Remus looked up at him sheepishly, “Believe it or not, it didn’t shut her up.”
Remus腼腆地抬头看着他，“信不信由你，这没能让她闭嘴。”

It took Grant almost ten full minutes to pull himself together.
Grant花了差不多十分钟才重新镇定下来。

* * *

They got a TV, a few weeks after that - Grant joked that if Remus was so bored he’d resorted to shagging girls, then they’d better bring in some entertainment for him. He didn’t see Anthea again, which was a pity, because to be honest, Remus wouldn’t have minded making that a regular thing. Once you got used to all the talking, she was very sexy. He didn’t think about what it meant too much, and Grant didn’t push it.

The TV came second hand - neither of them had enough disposable income for a brand new one. They got it free off a friend of Grant’s, on the condition that they picked it up themselves. It was only two streets over, but that still presented something of a problem.

“Can’t you… hover it home, or something?” Grant asked, hands on his hips as they stared down at the big, bulky TV set on the pavement. “Do a spell.”

“It’s against the law.” Remus explained. “In public, anyway. Or in front of mugg--you.”

“Pfft.” Grant raised a hand to push his hair out of his sweaty face. “Bugger. Knew I ought to learn how to drive.”

The door of the building opened, and a man walked out, looking flushed and shifty. That was the third man Remus had seen with exactly the same furtive look.

“What is this place, anyway?!” He asked, peering up at the building. It looked like all the others - maybe a bit shabby. There was no outward signage.

“Sauna,” Grant said, squatting down to see if he could get his arms around the set. He could, but there was no way he could lift the thing.

“Sauna?” Remus scratched his head.

“You know, a bath house. Where men can be alone together and get all sweaty.”

“Oh!” Remus gaped, embarrassed.

“Christ Remus, we do live in Soho.”

“I know! I just… anyway, don’t lift it like that, you’ll do your back in. Come on, take that end, I’ll take this… one, two, three, up…”

They got it back in about thirty minutes, only taking one break. Remus was really doing most of the carrying, but he didn’t mind; they’d picked a day between the moons and he was feeling pretty healthy.

Luckily, Grant was a dab hand at the electrical side, and managed to hook everything up once the TV was actually in the living room. It looked weird; a big black plastic cube, taking up all the space. They ended up putting it on a box in front of the fireplace, which they never used anyway. The aerial wasn’t brilliant, and needed a bit of electrical tape to keep it upright, but once they switched the thing on, and the fuzzy picture came into view, they were both hooked.
幸运的是，Grant对电器方面很在行，一旦电视机真正放进客厅，他就能成功接上所有的线。它看起来很奇怪；一个大黑色塑料方块，占据了所有的空间。他们最终把它放在了壁炉前的一个箱子上，反正他们也从未用过那个壁炉。天线效果不好，需要一些电工胶带来支撑，但一旦他们打开电视，模糊的画面显现出来时，他们俩都被吸引住了。

Remus, who hadn’t watched any telly in years, was a complete addict that summer. He got hooked on soaps - EastEnders, Brookside and Coronation Street, but he’d watch anything; debates in the house of commons, snooker championships, comedy, documentaries, top of the tops, and even a horrifically upsetting series called Threads, about the threat of nuclear war.
Remus在那年夏天完全变成了电视迷，他多年未看电视，这一夏天却成了完全的上瘾者。他迷上了肥皂剧——《东区人》、《布鲁克赛德》和《科罗纳街》，但他什么都看；下议院辩论、台球锦标赛、喜剧、纪录片、《顶尖榜单》，甚至还有一部令人极度不安的系列剧《Threads》，讲述了核战争的威胁。

The TV went on first thing in the morning as he pottered around the flat getting dressed or brushing his teeth, and more often than not he fell asleep in front of it in the evenings. Grant started calling the set ‘the other man’.
每天早晨，他一边打理公寓，一边穿衣服或刷牙，电视机就开着。晚上，他经常在电视机前睡着。Grant开始称这台电视为“另一个男人”。

“I just like the noise,” Remus said, “For company.”
“我只是喜欢有点声音，”Remus说，“有伴。”

“You could try making some real friends…” Grant suggested. Remus dismissed this. He didn’t need friends; he had everything he needed.
“你可以试着交些真正的朋友……”Grant建议道。Remus不以为意。他不需要朋友；他有他需要的一切。

One Sunday afternoon they were both in the living room. Remus had to leave for a cleaning job which started at 3am, so he had been sleeping most of the day. Grant was reading the paper, and Remus’s legs were across his lap. With his free hand, Grant was absent-mindedly rubbing the arch of Remus’s left foot, which was making Remus sleepy and dozy again.
一个星期天下午，他们俩都在客厅。Remus需要去打扫一个凌晨3点开始的工作，所以他几乎整天都在睡觉。Grant在看报纸，Remus的腿搭在他的膝盖上。Grant用另一只手心不在焉地揉着Remus的左脚弓，这让Remus再次感到困倦和昏昏欲睡。

The News had just finished, and they were waiting for the weather when suddenly, sinister music began playing.
新闻刚结束，他们在等天气预报时，突然播放了阴森的音乐。

"There is now a danger that has become a threat to us all," the television said ominously. "It is a deadly disease and there is no known cure..."
“现在有一种危险已成为对我们所有人的威胁，”电视 ominously地说。“这是一种致命的疾病，目前没有已知的治疗方法……”

Grant and Remus both looked up to watch the creepy announcement. A word etched onto a blackened gravestone - AIDS.
Grant和Remus都抬头看着这个恐怖的公告。一个词刻在黑暗的墓碑上——艾滋病（AIDS）。

"Don't die of ignorance!" The voiceover intoned.
“不要因无知而死！”旁白声中带着庄重的语调。

A familiar sense of shame and anxiety rushed through Remus, a sickly mix of emotion he hadn’t felt since school. He pulled his feet off Grant, drawing his knees up to his chest. He felt dirty; untouchable.
一种熟悉的羞耻和焦虑感涌上Remus的心头，是一种自学校以来未曾感受过的病态情绪。他把脚从Grant身上拿开，把膝盖收拢到胸前。他感到脏；不可接触。

“Christ.” Grant said, his voice hollow, signalling to Remus that he was feeling exactly the same way. “S'enough to make ya give up on shagging altogether, innit.” He shook his head.
“天啊。”Grant说道，声音空洞，向Remus表明他有相同的感受。“这足以让你完全放弃做爱的欲望，不是吗？”他摇了摇头。

Remus bit his lip.
Remus咬了咬嘴唇。

"You’re being safe, aren't you?" He asked tentatively.
“你很安全，对吧？”他小心翼翼地问道。

"Yeah, obviously." Grant nodded, brusquely.
“嗯，很明显。”Grant粗鲁地点了点头。

Remus looked up at him, twisting his mouth. He hated bringing up Grant’s other liaisons, and Grant was always very discreet about it. Not guilty, or secretive, but discreet. Still, Remus wanted to be as sure as he could.
Remus抬头看着他，扭动着嘴角。他讨厌提及Grant的其他恋情，而Grant总是非常谨慎。不是内疚或秘密，而是谨慎。不过，Remus还是想尽可能确定。

"Good. I mean, you're using..."

Grant stood up, hands on his hips, clearly annoyed.

"Yes, Remus, when I fuck other men I make sure there are condoms handy."

"Sorry." Remus blushed, looking down at his hands. "It's none of my business."

"Right. It’s not." Grant snapped, agitated, and went into the kitchen.對啊。不是的。”格蘭特怒氣沖沖地走進廚房。

Remus heard him fill the kettle and then flick it on, then he smelled cigarette smoke. He ran his fingers through his hair, flustered, and called through the wall;“

萊姆斯聽到他把水壺裝滿，然後打開，然後他聞到了煙味。他用手指梳理著頭髮，心慌意亂，隔著牆喊道；

"I just… you know I couldn't bear it, if I didn't have you."

Quiet. Footsteps.

“What about you?” Grant asked, reappearing.

“Me?!” Remus blinked.

Grant folded his arms, leaning in the doorframe.

“Don’t treat me like an idiot, I know I’m not your one and only. And it wasn’t just Anth, neither. Whoever you see, when you go off every month. When you’re… when you’re not yourself.”

Remus stared at him, his mouth dry. He blinked again, and nodded.

“I’ll be safe.”

“Couldn’t do without you either.” Grant said, ruffling Remus’s hair. “Insensitive wanker. Cup of tea?”
“我也离不开你。”Grant说着，揉了揉Remus的头发。“没感觉的混蛋。要杯茶吗？”

Remus nodded, glad they weren’t fighting, but troubled all the same. Grant was quite right, of course. Remus had never given protection a second thought with Castor. Could wizards get it? If they could, then was there a magical cure? Remus had seen pictures of AIDS sufferers from America; skeletal men in hospital beds. He shuddered.
Remus点了点头，庆幸他们没有争吵，但心里仍然感到困扰。Grant说得对，当然。Remus从未考虑过和Castor一起时使用保护措施。巫师会得这种病吗？如果会，那么是否有魔法治疗方法？Remus见过来自美国的艾滋病患者的照片；瘦骨嶙峋的病人躺在医院的病床上。他打了个寒颤。

Grant came back through with two cups of tea. He handed one to Remus, then sat down beside him, crossed his legs and raised the mug to his lips, blowing on it. He sipped, and then looked up, thoughtfully. “I could stop.”
Grant拿着两杯茶回来。他递给Remus一杯，然后坐在他旁边，双腿交叉，把杯子凑到嘴边，吹了吹。他啜了一口，然后若有所思地抬起头。“我可以停下来。”

“Eh?” Remus blinked, lost in his own thoughts.
“嗯？”Remus眨了眨眼，陷入了自己的思绪中。

“I could stop seeing other people.” Grant repeated patiently. “If you wanted me to, I mean. All you have to do is ask.”
“我可以停止见其他人。”Grant耐心地重复道。“如果你希望我这样做的话。我只需要你告诉我。”

“I don’t want to tell you what you can and can’t--”
“我不想告诉你你可以和不能……”

“Remus.” Grant raised an eyebrow, “I’ve been living here for four years. You’re a right dickhead sometimes, but you make me happy.”
“Remus。”Grant扬起眉毛，“我在这里住了四年。你有时候真是个混蛋，但你让我快乐。”

Remus was staring at the carpet, now, trying not to panic.
Remus此时盯着地毯，试图不让自己恐慌。

Grant set down his tea, and reached over to touch Remus’s hand, “I don’t need anyone but you.” He said, sincerely.
Grant放下茶杯，伸手触碰Remus的手，“我只需要你。”他说，真诚地。

“Grant, I…”
“Grant，我……”

“I know, I know,” Grant put a hand up, “I’m not expecting you to say it back, it’s ok. I know how you feel, and that’s enough.”
“我知道，我知道，”Grant举起一只手，“我不指望你回应，这没关系。我知道你的感受，这就足够了。”

Remus inhaled sharply and closed his eyes. He exhaled slowly, and willed his heart to slow down. It was a lovely thing to hear. He had never for a moment expected to feel this way again - or for it to be so very different from the last time.
Remus深吸了一口气，闭上了眼睛。他慢慢地呼出气息，努力让自己的心跳平静下来。这是一件美妙的事情。他从未预料到会再次有这样的感觉——或者它会与上一次有如此大的不同。

“Ok.” He breathed.

“Ok?” Grant cocked his head.

“Ok,” Remus nodded, “I’d rather you didn’t see anyone else.”

“Deal.”

 

Chapter 178: 1986 

Time up and time out for all the liberties you've taken

Time up and time out for all the friends that you've forsaken

And if you choose to waste away like death is back in fashion

You're an accident waiting to happen

 

My sins are so unoriginal.

I have all the self loathing of a wolf in sheep's clothing

In this carnival of carnivores, heaven help me.

 

Goodbye and good luck to all the promises you've broken

Goodbye and good luck to all the rubbish that you've spoken

Your life has lost its dignity, its beauty and its passion

You're an accident waiting to happen

 

Things were different, of course, after Remus and Grant agreed to remain monogamous. They were still best friends, they still made each other laugh and irritated each other beyond belief, but a fresh new closeness had developed too. Remus drank less for a while - he didn’t stop altogether, and some days were very hard, some days he didn’t wash, or get out of bed, or eat. But not every day; and that was progress.

Castor didn’t take it well. In fact, he was furious. Remus even tried to explain HIV to him, but it was no good. Castor had grown so far away from humanity, he was even starting to look wolfish. His hair was thicker, blacker somehow, and extended down past the nape of his neck, creeping along his spine. His teeth were lengthening, his eyes sharper, the irises turning yellow.
Castor对此反应不好。实际上，他非常愤怒。Remus甚至试图向他解释HIV，但无济于事。Castor与人性的距离越来越远，他甚至开始看起来像狼。他的头发变得更厚、更黑，延伸到颈背以下，沿着脊柱蔓延。他的牙齿变长了，眼睛变得更锐利，虹膜变成了黄色。

“You are turning your back on your family, Remus Lupin.” He snarled. “Even your magic grows weaker.”
“你正在背弃你的家人，Remus Lupin。”他咆哮道。“即使你的魔法也变得更弱了。”

“I’m not turning my back on anything.” Remus insisted, “I’m trying to have a real life.”
“我没有背弃任何东西。”Remus坚持道，“我只是想过上真正的生活。”

Of course Castor didn’t understand; Remus kept Castor and Grant so separate that they didn’t even know each others’ names. Maybe he’d always known he’d have to pick one of them in the end. And Castor had never felt right.
当然，Castor不理解；Remus把Castor和Grant隔得很远，他们甚至不知道对方的名字。也许他一直知道最终必须选择其中一个。而且，Castor从未让人感到对劲。

In the end, Remus was banished from the pack. He was warned that if he ever returned, he would be treated as a threat. This was extreme, but he supposed that’s just what you got for breaking a werewolf’s heart.
最后，Remus被逐出了狼群。他被警告如果再回来，将会被视为威胁。这有些极端，但他想这就是伤害狼人心灵的代价。

Now Remus had to spend the full moons in Britain. He returned to some of his old haunts; the Lake District, the Brecon Beacons. He tried not to go anywhere there were too many memories of Prongs and Wormtail. Or the other one. To make matters worse, without the pack to help him heal every month, Remus had to apparate back to London and tend to his wounds as best he could.
现在Remus必须在英国度过满月。他回到了自己的一些老地方；湖区，布雷肯比肯斯。他尽量避免去那些有太多Prongs和Wormtail记忆的地方。或者其他的。更糟糕的是，没有了狼群每个月的帮助，Remus不得不回到伦敦，尽力处理自己的伤口。

“Christ!” Grant exclaimed, the first time it was really bad. He walked in on Remus in the bathroom, disinfecting his cuts, his wand shaking as he tried to grip it with broken fingers.
“天哪！”Grant惊叫道，第一次情况真的很糟。他走进浴室，看到Remus正在消毒伤口，他的魔杖因为试图用受伤的手指握住而颤抖。

“Sorry,” Remus murmured, bracing himself against the sink as a dizzy spell threatened to overwhelm him. He hadn’t felt so dreadful after a transformation since… since… his vision clouded, and he sat down on the closed toilet lid, head between his knees so he didn’t faint.
“对不起，”Remus低声说，靠在水槽上，感到一阵眩晕袭来。他自从……自从……之后没有过这么糟糕的变身体验。他的视线模糊了，坐在关上的马桶盖上，头埋在膝盖之间，以免晕倒。

“Christ!” Grant said again, coming in and kneeling in front of him. He took the bloody cotton ball Remus had been using, and tossed it in the bin. He grabbed the tub from the side of the sink, plus the bottle of TCP. “Come here, you,” he said softly, taking Remus’s hand very gently in his, and dabbing it lightly with the disinfectant.
“天哪！”Grant再次说道，走进来，跪在Remus面前。他拿起Remus用过的血迹斑斑的棉球，扔进了垃圾桶。他从水槽边拿过药膏和TCP瓶。“过来，”他轻声说道，温柔地握住Remus的手，轻轻地用消毒液涂抹。

Remus sat there dumbly, letting himself be looked after, too tired to do much else.
Remus呆呆地坐在那里，任由自己被照顾，太累了，什么也做不了。

“For god’s sake,” Grant shook his head, visibly upset, “We can’t have you in this state every month, can we my darling?”
“看在上帝的份上，”Grant摇摇头，显然很不安，“我们不能每个月都让你这样子，不是吗，我的亲爱的？”

“It’s ok.” Remus mumbled, “This isn’t too bad.”
“没关系。”Remus喃喃道，“这还算不上太糟糕。”

“My arse!” Grant retorted, getting up to look for plasters in the medicine cabinet. He found them and knelt down again, resuming his work on Remus’s scrapes. “Tell you what, if it’s a choice between you coming back like this every month or giving that wolfy fucker a few blowjobs then I’ll do it myself.”
“胡说！”Grant反驳道，站起身去药柜里找创可贴。他找到了，重新跪下，继续处理Remus的擦伤。“告诉你，如果你每个月都像这样回来，或者我给那个狼一样的混蛋几次口交，那我宁愿自己来。”

Remus laughed, which hurt his ribs. “I’m not sure it works like that.”
Remus笑了，这让他的肋骨很疼。“我不确定这样会有效。”

“Well, we’ve got to do something.” Grant grumbled, binding Remus’s broken fingers tightly together with the plasters.
“嗯，我们得做点什么。”Grant嘟囔着，把Remus的断指用创可贴紧紧包扎起来。

“You’re good at this,” Remus said, surprised, looking down at the neat work Grant had made.
“你很擅长这个，”Remus惊讶地说，低头看着Grant做的整齐的工作。

“Yeah, well, if you get battered as much as I’ve been, you pick up some tricks,” Grant looked up and winked. “And don’t forget I went on that first aid course for work. Come on then, let’s get you to bed. Are you hungry?”
“嗯，如果你像我一样受了那么多伤，你会学到一些技巧的，”Grant抬起头，眨了眨眼。“别忘了我还上过急救课程。好了，带你上床吧。你饿吗？”

“Sort of.” He was starving, but he knew there was no food in. They were waiting for payday to do a big shop.
“有点。”他很饿，但知道家里没有食物。他们在等发工资后去大采购。

“I’ll see what I can do.” Grant said, helping him through to the bedroom.

“You don’t have to, I’ll probably just sleep.”

“God, you look so pale,” Grant felt Remus’s forehead with the back of his hand. “I fink you ought to eat something.”

“Honestly, I look worse than I feel.” Remus climbed into bed, his bones wept with relief.

“Don’t believe you.” Grant got in with him, and sat up, stroking Remus’s hair. It was very soothing. “Did… did Sirius used to look after you? After full moons?”

Remus screwed his eyes up, shook his head, “Please don’t. I can’t.”

“Oh love.” Grant sighed, resuming his tender stroking. “You know, my friend who does the counselling, she says she’ll still give you an appointment. Just say the word. Helped me a lot, you don’t know how much.”

“I can’t.” Remus said. He always said the same. “There are too many lies I’d have to tell.”

“Nah, I’ve been thinking - it doesn’t have to be about the war, or even the wolf thing. Just talk to her about James and Lily and Peter. Say it was a car crash, or--”

“No.”

“Remus, I just want you to talk--”

“You know, I really don’t feel well. Can you leave me alone, please?”

“Fine.” Grant got up. Remus kept his eyes shut, but he could hear every movement. Just before he left the room, Grant turned back. “I found that bottle of gin in your sock drawer, by the way. Poured it down the sink.”

He slammed the door.

* * *

*Ring ring* *Ring ring*

“Hello?”

“Mary?”

“Remus?” There was a brief silence on the end of the line, as Mary collected herself. Remus knew that feeling. Sometimes he’d be reminded of something from the old days, and it would knock all the air out of him. “Hi!” She said, her voice carrying an overwide smile. “How are you, sweetheart?”
“Remus？”电话那头有一丝短暂的沉默，Mary在整理情绪。Remus知道这种感觉。有时他会被提醒过去的事情，这会让他感到窒息。“嗨！”她说，声音中带着过于宽泛的笑容。“你好吗，亲爱的？”

“Oh, you know. I’m not disturbing you?” He always tried to give her an easy out, if she wanted it.

“Of course not... Just had our tea.”

“Oh nice, what did you have?”

“Chicken and rice. Darren’s favourite.”

“Sounds good.”

“You ought to come for dinner, one evening. Still in London, are you?”

“Yeah… same flat.”

“Oh, of course. Is that…? Um. How is that?”

“It's ok.” He said, glancing around at his shabby living room. “Been here so long now I s’pose it feels like it's always been just mine.”

“Seeing anyone?”

“Sort of.”

“Working?”

“Cleaning. Off and on, when I can get it. I was stacking shelves for a bit, over in Epping, but I fell asleep on the job and they sacked me.”「打掃。斷斷續續，當我能得到它時。我在埃平（Epping）堆放了一會兒貨架，但我在工作中睡著了，他們解雇了我。

“Be gentle with yourself, love.”

“Yeah.” He took a drink from his beer bottle. “How’s your job?”

“Good! Turns out I might have been awful at transfiguration, but accounting is no big deal.”好的！原來我在變形方面可能很糟糕，但會計沒什麼大不了的。

Darren had opened a garage in late ‘85, and Mary worked there too, taking care of all the bookings and the invoicing. They were saving up to move out of their tower block, and get a little house with a garden. She only used magic very occasionally, she told Remus, though her relationship with her wand had never been quite the same since finding the McKinnons.

達倫 (Darren) 在 85 年底開了一家車庫，瑪麗也在那裡工作，負責所有預訂和發票。他們正在存錢搬出塔樓，買一棟有花園的小房子。她告訴萊姆斯，她只是偶爾使用魔法，儘管自從找到麥金農一家之後，她和魔杖的關係就不再一樣了。

“Remus? Are you still there?”

“Sorry, yeah. Drifted off.”

 

“I do that too…” a pause, and Remus got that sick, tight feeling in his stomach. He could guess what was coming next. Mary raised her voice, slightly, “Have you got someone to talk to? Whoever it is you’re ‘sort of’ seeing, do they know what happened?”

“Sorry, yeah. Drifted off.”

“I do that too…” a pause, and Remus got that sick, tight feeling in his stomach. He could guess what was coming next. Mary raised her voice slightly, “Have you got someone to talk to? Whoever it is you’re ‘sort of’ seeing, do they know what happened?”“我也会这样…”一阵沉默，Remus感到腹中一阵恶心的紧绷感。他能猜到接下来会发生什么。Mary稍微提高了声音：“你有可以倾诉的人吗？你‘有点’在见的那个人知道发生了什么吗？”

“Mm.” Remus made a noncommittal noise. “Bits and pieces.”“嗯。”Remus发出了一声含糊的声音。“一些细节。”

“Because you ought to talk about it, Remus. You shouldn’t have to carry all of that… I can’t imagine how it must feel, the betrayal--”

“No.” Remus snapped, “You can’t!” and he slammed down the phone, as hard as he could, so that he knocked it off the table. He finished his beer before moving to pick it up.



“不。”Remus怒斥道，“你无法想象！”然后他用力把电话摔下，直到它从桌子上掉下来。他喝完了啤酒才去捡电话。

Fuck her, then.

Everyone wanted him to talk, but none of them really knew. None of them could know - how stupid he felt, how used. Lily and James and Peter and Marlene - losing them was one thing. Remus had taught himself to focus on the best memories, the happiest times.

每个人都想让他说出来，但他们都真的不知道。他们无法知道——他感到多么愚蠢，多么被利用。Lily、James、Peter和Marlene——失去他们是一回事。Remus已经学会了专注于最美好的回忆，最快乐的时光。

But Sirius. There was not one moment of their time together that wasn’t tainted; poisoned by the lies Black had been telling. Remus had been open, and vulnerable and loving, and every moment of it had been false.但Sirius。他们在一起的每一刻都被污染了；被Black编织的谎言毒害了。Remus曾经是开放的，脆弱的，充满爱的，每一刻都是虚假的。

He had been made a fool of by the only person he had ever loved. He was pathetic ; too blinded by emotion to see the truth, and now there was nothing left of him. He would never be capable of that kind of softness ever again. Remus’s hatred for Sirius was so overwhelming sometimes it frightened him.

他被唯一爱过的人戏弄了。他很可怜；被情感蒙蔽了真相，现在他已经没有了。他再也无法拥有那种柔软。Remus对Sirius的仇恨有时如此强烈，以至于让他感到害怕。

So how was he supposed to talk about that? How was he supposed to tell Grant, or some therapist, that he was not merely angry, not merely grieving, but paralysed by rage? That he sometimes dreamed about getting to Azkaban somehow, and killing Sirius himself. That once or twice in the first few months after the war, he had gone so far as to actually get up in the night, drunk and furious, grabbed his wand, and planned to do exactly that. The only thing that stopped him was the thought of getting splinched, or having to face all those dementors.

那他怎么可能谈论这些？他怎么能告诉Grant或某个治疗师，他不仅仅是生气，不仅仅是哀悼，而是被愤怒麻痹？他有时会梦到设法进入阿兹卡班，亲自杀死Sirius。战后头几个月里，他曾经因为喝醉了，愤怒地起来，抓起他的魔杖，计划做到这一点。唯一阻止他的，是对被分裂或面对那些摄魂怪的恐惧。

He kicked the coffee table, furiously, stubbing his toe.

“Bugger!”

Grant poked his head around the corner of the living room door. “Didn’t go well, then?”

Grant探出头来从客厅门的角落看过来。“不顺利吗？”

“There's no point trying.” Remus huffed, rubbing his foot and hopping across the room to flick on the t.v. “She’s happy. She's got her life together. I should just leave her to it.” He collapsed back into the sofa.“没必要再试了。”Remus哼了一声，揉着脚走到电视机旁打开电视。“她很幸福。她的生活很美好。我应该就让她这样。”他倒回到沙发上。

“Is that what she said?” Grant came in, reproachfully.“她这么说了吗？”Grant走进来，带着责备的语气。

“No. But it’s what’s fair.” Remus kept his eyes fixed on the screen, slouching down further. Maybe Grant would get the message: I don’t want to talk!

“没有。但这才公平。”Remus的视线固定在屏幕上，身体更深地陷入沙发中。也许Grant会明白：我不想谈！

“Why don’t you invite her over one saturday?” Grant sat on the arm of the couch. “I’d like to meet her.”

“No point. She wouldn’t come. Too many memories here.”

“We could go out then, go for lunch somewhere nice.”

“We can’t afford that.”

Grant rubbed his temples, wincing as if he was getting a headache, “You’re being childish.” He said.

“Piss off.”

“Brilliant rebuttal, that,” Grant snorted, “Come on, what happened to the clever clogs I used to fancy the pants off? Use your big words.”
“这真是个精彩的反驳，”格兰特哼了一声，“来吧，你以前那聪明的家伙去哪儿了？用你那大词儿。”

“Look, you wanted me to call Mary and I did. It ended badly, like I knew it would, and that’s that. Just leave me alone, will you?!”
“听着，你想让我打电话给玛丽，我打了。结果像我预料的那样糟糕，就这样。就别再打扰我，好吗？！”

“Yeah, I can imagine exactly why it ended badly, too, and I don’t need to be a bloody magician to work it out.”
“是啊，我完全能猜到为什么结果会那么糟糕，我可不需要当个该死的魔术师来弄明白。”

“Wizard.”
“巫师。”

“Dickhead. From what you’ve told me she’s a nice girl. And she knows you. I just thought she’d be someone to talk to about--”
“蠢货。根据你说的，她是个好女孩。而且她认识你。我只是觉得她可能是个可以谈谈的对象——”

“Yeah, well, she doesn’t want to talk about it any more than I do.” Remus spat. “She told me to talk to you.”
“是啊，她也不想再谈这个了。”雷穆斯吐槽道。“她让我和你谈。”

“She did?” Grant blinked. Remus felt especially cruel.
“她真的这么说？”格兰特眨了眨眼。雷穆斯感到特别残酷。

“Well. Obviously she doesn’t know you by name. Just whoever I’m shagging, right now.”
“嗯。显然她不认识你的名字。只是现在我正在上床的那个人。”

“Right.” Grant made an obvious effort to ignore this slight. “Well, come on then.”

“What?”

“It’s a Sunday, I’ve got nothing to do. Let’s talk.”

“No.”

“Remus. I can’t go on like this.” Grant said. “I love you, I do, but this is too---”

Fuck. Alarm bells started going off inside Remus’s head.

It was as if someone had started flashing the lights on and off, and the walls were closing in, and all the air had left the room, and he was dizzy, drowning, blinded. There was a weird taste in his mouth, and he thought he might be sick, except he couldn’t breathe enough to retch, just kept gasping, tumbling forward.
就像是有人开始不停地闪烁灯光，墙壁在逼近，空气全都消失了，他感到头晕，快要窒息，眼前一片模糊。他嘴里有股奇怪的味道，觉得自己可能会恶心，但却没有足够的空气来呕吐，只能不停地喘气，身体前倾。

“Hey, hey hey!” Grant’s voice penetrated the fog, echoing and distant. “Remus? Remus, can you take a deep breath? In on one, out on two, ok? One…”
“嘿，嘿，嘿！”格兰特的声音穿透了迷雾，回响而又遥远。“雷穆斯？雷穆斯，你能深呼吸吗？吸气时数一，呼气时数二，明白吗？一……”

Remus felt sweat trickle down his back, his heart thudding into overdrive, but he breathed in, as much as he could. “Two…” Grant said. He was rubbing his back very slowly. Remus let out a long shaky breath. “That’s so good,” Grant said, voice louder now, “So good, Remus, well done. And again, one… two…”
雷穆斯感到汗水沿着背部流下，心跳加速，但他尽可能地吸气。“二……”格兰特说道。他非常缓慢地抚摸着他的背。雷穆斯长长地吐出了一口气。“很好，”格兰特说道，声音现在变得更响了，“很好，雷穆斯，做得好。再来一次，一……二……”

They must have sat there for almost two full minutes, just breathing together. Eventually, Remus felt halfway normal again. Except he really, really wanted a drink.
他们就这样坐了差不多两分钟，只是一起呼吸。最后，雷穆斯感觉自己稍微正常了一些。除了他真的、真的很想喝一杯。

“See,” Grant said, using the voice that Remus was sure he reserved for the troubled kids he worked with, “This is why I need you to talk to me. We can’t have this, can we?”
“你看，”格兰特说道，用着雷穆斯确信他专门对待有困扰的孩子时才用的语气，“这就是我需要你和我谈谈的原因。我们不能这样下去，对吧？”

Remus shook his head, but didn’t trust himself to speak.
雷穆斯摇了摇头，但不相信自己能开口。

“I’m sorry I said what I said,” Grant continued, “I didn't mean it. There’s no ‘buts’, ok? I love you, and you’re stuck with me.”
“对不起，我说了那些话，”格兰特继续说道，“我不是那个意思。没有‘但是’，明白吗？我爱你，你得和我在一起。”

Remus nodded again, head still in his hands, eyes shut tight. He had to be getting the flu, or something; people didn’t get dizzy just from not talking, surely. Only… only Grant saying that; ‘I can’t go on…’ it had ignited such dread inside him, such terror, maybe there was something to it.
雷穆斯再次点了点头，头仍然埋在双手中，眼睛紧闭。他一定是得了流感，或者其他什么；人们不可能只是因为不说话就头晕的。只是……只是格兰特说的那句话；‘我无法继续下去……’它在他内心点燃了如此的恐惧，也许这确实有些道理。

“What if you tell me just one thing?” Grant tried, “Just one thing to help me understand?”
“如果你告诉我一件事怎么样？”格兰特试探性地问，“只是一件事，帮我理解？”

“Like what?” Remus choked.
“像什么？”雷穆斯哽咽道。

“Well…” he could practically hear Grant’s mind whirring. Did he have a list of things he wanted to pry out of Remus, all saved up for just this occasion? Was this some stupid psychoanalysis bullshit Grant had picked up on a training course?
“嗯……”他几乎能听到格兰特思维的运转声。他是否有一份清单，列出他想从雷穆斯这里挖掘出来的所有事情，为了这一刻而准备好？这是格兰特在培训课程上学到的一些愚蠢的心理分析废话吗？

“You’ve never told me what happened to Sirius. I know he’s not dead. Did he… leave?”
“你从未告诉我天狼星发生了什么。我知道他还活着。他……离开了？”

“Yeah, in a manner of speaking.” Remus grunted. God, hearing someone else say his name hurt so much. He felt dizzy all over again.
“是的，从某种意义上说。”雷穆斯咕哝道。天啊，听到别人说他的名字真是太痛苦了。他感到全身再次晕眩。

“What do you mean?”
“你什么意思？”

“He’s in prison.” Remus said. Then he breathed in again, and forced out the rest. “He’s in prison because he murdered them, and I wasn’t here to stop any of it.”
“他在监狱里。”雷穆斯说道。然后他再次深吸一口气，勉强说出了剩下的话。“他在监狱里，因为他杀了他们，而我不在这里阻止这一切。”

“Fucking hell.”
“该死的。”

“Mm.” Remus braced himself for more questions. But none came. Grant just slipped his arm over his shoulder and gave him a squeeze.
“嗯。”雷穆斯准备迎接更多的问题。但没有。格兰特只是把手臂搭在他的肩膀上，给了他一个拥抱。

“It wasn’t your fault.”
“这不是你的错。”

“You don’t know that.” Remus returned, still looking down. “You don’t know how stupid I was. I missed all the signs. I knew something was wrong, but I thought… I thought it was just me; I thought he wanted to break up. I was so selfish, I never thought for a second that he would… that he could…” He was crying now. Stupid Grant.
“你不知道。”雷穆斯回答道，仍然低着头。“你不知道我有多愚蠢。我错过了所有的迹象。我知道有些不对劲，但我以为……我以为只是我自己；我以为他想分手。我太自私了，我从未想过他会……他可以……”他现在在哭。愚蠢的格兰特。

“It’s his fault for letting you down, not your fault for trusting him.” Grant kept hugging him. Remus allowed it, to make him feel better; to make this seem like a breakthrough.
“让你失望是他的错，不是你信任他的错。”格兰特继续拥抱他。雷穆斯允许了，这让他感觉好些；让这一刻看起来像是一个突破。

But Grant could say that all he wanted - Mary had said something similar, once or twice over the years. It just didn’t ring true. The dead were still dead, and Remus had not been there to prevent any of it. Even if he had been there, that Halloween night; the way he’d been back then, he probably would have let Sirius kill him, too, rather than try to fight him.
但格兰特可以说得再多——玛丽多年来也曾说过类似的话。只是这听起来不真实。死者仍然死去，而雷穆斯没有在场阻止这一切。即使他当时在场，那一年的万圣节夜晚；以他当时的状态，他可能也会让天狼星杀了自己，而不是尝试去抵抗。

Back then, dying for love had seemed the only worthy cause. But he was older, now, and he knew the truth. Never again. Never, never.
那时，为爱而死似乎是唯一值得的事业。但现在他已经年长了，他知道了真相。再也不会了。永远不会。

Chapter 179: 1987When I look back upon my life

It's always with a sense of shame

I've always been the one to blame

For everything I long to do

No matter when or where or who

Has one thing in common, too;

 

It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a sin

It's a sin

 In the spring of 1987, Remus had a spot of luck. One of Grant’s old student friends now worked in the Law Department at UCL and managed to swing a job for Remus doing some freelance editing. This was a revelation; he could do the bulk of it at home, and then just take it up to Holborn once it was done. He did need to get a national insurance card, and a muggle bank account, but that was easy enough with a few tactical glamour spells at the bank.

1987年春天，雷穆斯走了点运气。格兰特的一位老同学现在在UCL的法律系工作，设法为雷穆斯找到了一份自由编辑的工作。这对雷穆斯来说是个启示；他可以在家完成大部分工作，然后一旦完成，就带到霍尔本。他确实需要一张国民保险卡和一个麻瓜银行账户，但在银行用几个战术幻术就轻松搞定了。

Remus only cheated a little bit, using magic to help him read and correct spelling, but he found the work surprisingly enjoyable, and even started a little business marking exam papers for some of the local muggle schools.
雷穆斯只稍微作弊了一点，用魔法帮助他阅读和纠正拼写，但他发现这份工作出乎意料的有趣，甚至还开始了一些为当地麻瓜学校批改试卷的小生意。

“Dunno how you can concentrate so long.” Grant shook his head at the pile of papers Remus had amassed one evening. “I’d go out of my mind.”
“真不知道你怎么能集中这么久。”有一天晚上，格兰特对雷穆斯堆积的一堆试卷摇了摇头。“我会疯掉的。”

“It’s interesting,” Remus shrugged, “I never got the chance to learn any of this stuff. Have you heard of quadratic equations?”
“很有趣，”雷穆斯耸了耸肩，“我从来没有机会学这些东西。你听说过二次方程吗？”

Grant laughed at him fondly and ruffled his hair, “You boffin.”
格兰特宠溺地笑着揉了揉他的头发，“你这个书呆子。”

Grant himself had been going from strength to strength at work. He loved his job, and put in extra time on the weekends and evenings whenever he could. The boys Grant worked with were every bit as much trouble as the St Edmund’s boys, but that only seemed to spur Grant on. He was always telling Remus about one kid or another who’d had a little victory - a passing mark at school, a week without a fight, time off their sentence. Somehow Grant knew everything about everyone; his memory limitless, his capacity for pride and encouragement unbelievable.
格兰特自己在工作上也越来越顺利。他热爱自己的工作，尽可能在周末和晚上加班。格兰特工作的那些男孩和圣埃德蒙的男孩一样麻烦，但这似乎只会激励格兰特。他总是告诉雷穆斯某个孩子取得的小胜利——在学校及格了，一周没有打架，减刑时间。格兰特似乎对每个人的情况了如指掌；他的记忆力无限，他的自豪感和鼓励能力令人难以置信。

“Got to cut out that article in the Observer,” he might say one evening, “Sounds right up Alfie’s street.” Or, “Staying late tomorrow, with any luck - promised the older lads we’d have a kick-about if none of them get written up.”
“得把观察家报上的那篇文章剪下来，”某个晚上他说，“这听起来正合阿尔菲的口味。”或者，“明天要晚点回家，希望一切顺利——答应了那些大孩子，如果他们没人被记过，我们就踢一场球。”

When he was feeling insecure sometimes Remus would wonder if Grant was only with him because he too was a troubled boy. That Grant was just trying to save him; like he tried to save everybody. He lived for a good cause.
有时当雷穆斯感到不安时，他会想，格兰特是不是和他在一起只是因为他也是个有问题的男孩。格兰特只是想救他；就像他试图救每个人一样。他为了一个好的事业而活。

“Shut up,” Grant would grin at him, if he raised these concerns. “I’ve wanted to get in your pants since we were teenagers, it’s got nothing to do with your tortured past.”
“闭嘴，”如果雷穆斯提出这些担忧，格兰特会咧嘴笑着对他说。“我从我们还是青少年时就想上你的床，这和你的痛苦过去无关。”

And then Remus would remember that after all, Grant was a care home kid himself. Something which was easy to forget, because unlike Remus, he bore it lightly, with a casual shrug of acceptance. Poverty, lack of education, mistreatment - none of this weighed Grant down in the same way. At least not on the surface. But Remus had been wrong about people before.
然后雷穆斯会记起，毕竟，格兰特自己也是个寄养院的孩子。这点很容易忘记，因为与雷穆斯不同，他轻松地接受了这一切，随意地耸了耸肩。贫穷，缺乏教育，虐待——这些都没有以同样的方式压垮格兰特。至少表面上没有。但雷穆斯以前对人有过误判。

As a result of Grant’s dedication to his work, and Remus’s own relatively low impact employment, Remus found himself in a position he had never been in before - having both free time and a bit of disposable income.
由于格兰特对工作的投入，以及雷穆斯自己相对低影响的就业，雷穆斯发现自己处于一个前所未有的境地——既有空闲时间又有一点可支配收入。

He didn’t need much - the flat was paid for, their furniture was serviceable, and they could generally afford to keep the electric and hot water on. He bought clothes every once in a while, but he hardly shopped at Harrods. There was the drink, but he reasoned that as he didn’t smoke any more, he could put his tobacco money towards booze.
他不需要太多——公寓已经付清，他们的家具还算可用，他们一般能负担得起电费和热水费。他偶尔买些衣服，但几乎不在哈罗德购物。至于喝酒，他认为既然他不再抽烟了，可以把烟草钱用来买酒。

What Remus did enjoy doing was going for walks. Not countryside rambles - he got enough of that on full moons - but wandering through London by himself, enjoying the streets, the people. He visited every free museum in London - the National Gallery, the Portrait Gallery, the V&A, the British Museum. He became quite cultured, in fact. And if his hip hurt (which it often did, now, as he entered his late twenties), he could easily hop on a bus.
雷穆斯喜欢做的是散步。不是乡村漫步——满月时他已经够多了——而是独自漫步在伦敦，享受街道和人群。他参观了伦敦的每一个免费博物馆——国家美术馆，肖像馆，V&A博物馆，大英博物馆。事实上，他变得相当有文化。如果他的臀部疼痛（现在进入二十多岁后经常如此），他可以轻松地上公交车。

So, one summer's day, he had completed all of his marking, and there was nothing on TV, Grant would not be home for hours, so he mooched around the Science Museum for an hour or so. Funnily enough, it put him in mind of Arthur Weasley, for the first time in years. The daft old bugger would love all of the machines, the pistons, the lightbulbs. He could just picture Arthur’s face as he watched the perpetual motion machine, and Remus smiled to himself, quite out of the blue. How was Arthur? And his wife, the Prewetts’ sister, and their redhaired brood? It had been too long now to get in touch, Remus knew, and he wouldn’t know what to say, even if he did.
于是，有一个夏天的日子，他完成了所有的批改，电视上也没什么好看的节目，格兰特还要几个小时才能回家，所以他在科学博物馆闲逛了一个小时左右。有趣的是，这使他想起了亚瑟·韦斯莱，这是多年来第一次。那个傻老家伙会喜欢所有的机器，活塞，灯泡。他可以想象亚瑟看着永动机时的表情，雷穆斯不由自主地笑了。亚瑟怎么样了？他的妻子，普雷威特家的姐姐，还有他们红发的一群孩子？雷穆斯知道，已经太久没有联系了，即使联系上了，他也不知道该说什么。

Still, thinking about the Weasleys hadn’t hurt, which was the main thing. And perhaps thinking about them put him in a different mindframe for the afternoon - more alert, maybe, or nostalgic. It couldn’t be a coincidence that he bumped into an old friend only two hours later.
不过，想到韦斯莱一家并没有让他感到痛苦，这才是最重要的。也许，想到他们让他下午的心情有些不同——也许更警觉，或更怀旧。两个小时后遇到一个老朋友，这不可能是巧合。

He was nearly home, only a street or so away, shuffling anonymously through the bustling Chinatown alleyways. In fact, he was just about to pass the place they’d got their tv - the sauna off Old Compton Street. Remus always blushed a bit, walking past it, and then chastised himself for being such a prude. He ducked his head slightly, as he approached, and - horror of horrors - just as he was level with the door somebody stepped out of it.
他快到家了，只剩一条街的距离，匿名地穿过熙熙攘攘的唐人街小巷。事实上，他正要经过他们买电视的地方——旧康普顿街旁的桑拿房。雷穆斯每次走过都会脸红，然后责备自己太保守。他微微低下头，靠近时——恐怖中的恐怖——正好有人从门里走出来。

Remus had to stop short, so as not to bump into them. They turned and stared up at him, nervously.
雷穆斯不得不停下脚步，以免撞到他们。他们转过身，紧张地抬头看着他。

Remus gasped. “Christopher!”
雷穆斯倒吸一口气。“克里斯托弗！”

The man blinked, horrified. He was red faced with dark brown eyes that were rather small and watery. He was a bit chubbier than he had been at school, and his hairline was receding slightly at the temples. But it was definitely him.
那个男人眨了眨眼，惊恐万分。他脸色通红，深棕色的眼睛相当小且水汪汪的。他比在学校时胖了一点，发际线在两鬓稍稍后移。但这确实是他。

“Remus?”

“Hi! It's been…”

“Not since…”

“Yeah. How are you?” Remus winced even as he asked the question. Christopher was so clearly uncomfortable - and why shouldn’t he be? He hadn’t seen Remus in almost ten years, and now here he was, looming over him outside a gay sauna.
“嗯，你好吗？”雷穆斯一边问问题一边皱着眉头。克里斯托弗显然很不舒服——他不应该不舒服吗？他几乎有十年没见过雷穆斯了，而现在，雷穆斯就在一个同性恋桑拿房外俯视着他。

“Oh… you know.” Christopher looked at his feet.
“哦……你知道的。”克里斯托弗看着自己的脚。

He was wearing muggle clothes - a stonewashed denim shirt with the buttons done up unevenly, dress trousers and a burnt orange waistcoat with green embroidery. In short, he looked as dreadful as every pureblood wizard who tried to pass as a muggle. As always, Christopher’s general air of hopelessness endeared Remus to him.
他穿着麻瓜衣服——一件石洗牛仔衬衫，纽扣扣得不均匀，西裤和一件带绿色刺绣的烧橙色马甲。总之，他看起来和每个试图冒充麻瓜的纯血巫师一样糟糕。像往常一样，克里斯托弗那种无助的气质让雷穆斯对他充满了好感。

“Er…” Remus rubbed the back of his head. “Do you want to… um. Got time for a coffee? Or a drink? Catch up a bit?”
“呃……”雷穆斯揉了揉后脑勺。“你想……嗯。有时间喝杯咖啡吗？或者喝一杯？聊聊近况？”

“Ok then…” Christopher looked up at him, cautiously.
“好吧……”克里斯托弗小心翼翼地抬头看着他。

Remus took charge from that point, because it was clear there was no other way. He led Christopher further up the street, back towards Tottenham Court Road. There was a cafe on Denmark Street that was cheap and anonymous, and for some reason Remus wanted to get further away from home.
从那一刻起，雷穆斯接管了，因为显然没有其他办法。他带着克里斯托弗沿街走回托特纳姆法院路。丹麦街上有一家廉价而不起眼的咖啡馆，不知为何，雷穆斯想离家更远一些。

“Here we are,” he smiled kindly, holding the door open and pointing out an available table. Christopher said nothing, and sat down, fidgeting a bit. Remus wondered if this was all a terrible idea - maybe Chris didn’t want to speak to him. But he went along with it, and offered to pay when Remus went to order their coffees.
“到了，”他友善地笑着，打开门并指向一张空桌子。克里斯托弗一言不发，坐下后有些不安地扭动。雷穆斯想知道这是不是个糟糕的主意——也许克里斯不想和他说话。但他还是配合了，并在雷穆斯去点咖啡时提出付款。

 

“Do you live nearby?” Christopher asked, finally, still not fully making eye contact.
“你住在附近吗？”克里斯托弗终于问道，依然没有完全与他眼神接触。

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, “Not far. You?”

“Oh, no. Out in Hampshire. I just come into the city for work, and… well.”

“Where do you work now?” Remus asked, desperate to spare him any further embarrassment.

“Gringotts.” Chris said, glancing up at the waitress as their coffees arrived. He put three sugars in his, and as much milk as he could - Remus realised he hadn’t even asked if Chris liked coffee.

“Very swish,” Remus smiled, “Always knew you’d do well.”

“I suppose.”

“Still read lots?”

“When there’s time… work keeps me busy. And other responsibilities, you know how it is. I thought we were overworked during NEWTs, but Hogwarts was a holiday compared to real life.”

Remus chewed the inside of his cheek, because that was very true, and he didn’t want to get upset about it.

“How about you?” Christopher asked, clearly trying not to grimace as he sipped his coffee. “What do you do, now?”

“This and that,” Remus shrugged. “Haven’t exactly got a career.”

“Oh, what a shame.”

 

Remus shrugged, “It’s fine, I manage.”

There was an awkward silence. Remus wanted to ask about the sauna, but he knew better. Grant would probably ask, but then Grant had a way of putting people at ease which Remus didn’t. He just drank his coffee quietly, and wished he’d suggested a pub, instead.

一陣尷尬的沉默。萊姆斯想詢問桑拿的事，但他更清楚。格蘭特可能會問，但格蘭特有辦法讓人們放鬆，而萊姆斯卻沒有。他只是安靜地喝著咖啡，希望他能推薦一家酒吧。

“I thought you’d died.” Christopher said, suddenly. Remus nearly choked. He set down his coffee.

“You…”

“There were so many rumours, back then - you remember what it was like. And there were all these names, and when I saw what had happened to Lily, and your friend James, I just thought… especially after it came out that Sirius Black was the one who did it, I just assumed...”

Remus breathed in, sharply, and waited for the pain to retreat. When it did, he exhaled slowly, and said, very evenly,

“No. I wasn’t there, that night. I had no idea what Black was up to. No one did.”

“He was always up to something,” Christopher said, darkly. “And with his family… I suppose it didn’t come as much of a surprise, really.”

“No.” Remus said, not really knowing what he was saying anymore, just trying to ignore the roaring in his head, “I suppose not.”

“I was so upset about Lily, though. She was kind. Do you know where Harry is, now? The boy who lived?”

Remus just shook his head. He drank more coffee - probably not a brilliant idea to add caffeine to his already speeding heart rate, but he was trying to be as normal as possible.

“If you weren’t dead,” Christopher continued, “I thought you might just not want to talk to me.”

 

“Why?”

“I know you and your friends were all involved in the war - helping Dumbledore and everything. I didn’t… my parents sent me to Sweden, after I finished my NEWTs. They were worried about me, they wanted me out of the way. You remember what things were like.”

Yes , Remus wanted to say, yes, I bloody remember. Sometimes I wake up and it’s like it’s still happening.

“And with us being purebloods… I think they were worried I’d have to pick a side. So they sent me away - we have family in Gothenburg, and I got my qualification in Magical Finance.”

“Right.” Remus nodded. He really needed to talk about something else. “Good for you, Chris. So, um… are you in Soho often?”

 

Christopher turned crimson again, and looked down at his mug of coffee. “Only… only sometimes. Honestly, I just heard about that place and thought I’d take a look, I didn’t… I don’t want you to think…”

“You know you ought to be careful,” Remus said, lowering his voice in case any of the cafe patrons were listening in, “There’s this illness the muggles are getting - I’m not sure how much your lot know about it, but it’s really serious.”

“Like I said,” Christopher said, “I barely go there, really. Just stupid curiosity.”

Remus felt a twinge of guilt, for making Christopher feel bad. If Grant had taught him anything, it was that you should never add to anyone’s personal shame. It was a wasted emotion anyway, no need to make it worse.

“There’s nothing wrong with being curious,” Remus said, gently, “Lots of people go to those places.”

“Do you?” Christopher looked up at him.

“No.” Remus said, a bit too quickly. “Er… I mean, you know I was never very sociable.”

“Oh, of course. I can imagine, after everything that happened…”

Remus didn’t want to get onto that, so he changed the subject, “Seeing anyone?” he asked, “Got a boyfriend?”

Christopher shook his head. “No. It’s difficult, you know. The job I have, my family. Things have been… well, there’s been a fair bit of trial and error, in that respect.”

Remus wanted to squeeze his hand over the table, but it wasn’t really the place. He tilted his head, sympathetically,

“It will get better, Chris.”

Christopher looked at him with a resigned smile. “Mm, yes, I remember you saying something like that before, at school. Someone for everyone.”

 

“Well, there is.” Remus nodded, encouragingly. “More than one person, even.”

“I don’t know.” Chris sighed, “I don’t know if it’s healthy to think like that. There are so many factors to consider, and I don’t… I don’t think it works like in books. I don’t think everyone has that experience.”

That was a difficult thing to hear. Remus didn’t know what to say, really, and felt weirdly self-conscious and naive. Certainly, Remus did not glamourise romance any more - if he ever had at all. Love had beaten the shit out of him on more than one occasion. But it had also been the only thing worth living for. It had lifted him, protected him, and kept him human. He had a sudden longing to see Grant, and wondered if he’d be home yet.
那是一件很难听的话。雷穆斯真的不知道该说什么，感觉莫名地自觉和天真。当然，雷穆斯不再美化爱情——如果他曾经有的话。爱情不止一次把他打得体无完肤。但它也是唯一值得活下去的东西。它抬起了他，保护了他，让他保持人性。他突然很想见到Grant，不知道他是否已经回家。

 

“Don’t feel sorry for me,” Christopher said, briskly, checking his pocket watch, “I have a nice enough time. I like my work, I make plenty of money, and when I get a free evening I still… you know, I’m able to enjoy myself once in a while. I just see it as a treat, rather than a lifestyle. Actually,” he leaned in a little, “I have a flat in Kensington - for when I work late, and don’t want to apparate all the way home. It’s nice there, if you’d like to see it.” He raised an eyebrow suggestively.
“别为我感到难过，”克里斯托弗干脆地说，查看他的怀表，“我过得还不错。我喜欢我的工作，挣了不少钱，有空的时候我还能……你知道，偶尔享受一下。我只是把这看作一种享受，而不是一种生活方式。实际上，”他微微靠近，“我在肯辛顿有一套公寓——为了工作到很晚，不想幻影移形回家的时候。那里很不错，如果你想去看看。”他挑了挑眉，暗示性地说。

Remus’s mouth went dry, and he swallowed, flustered,

“Um. Nice of you to offer, really, but. I’d better be getting home. I’ve got someone waiting.”

“Oh.” Christopher sat up straighter, withdrawing. His face seemed to close up. “You’ve got someone.”

“Yes, for a few years, now.” Almost six, he realised. Longer than he’d had Sirius - if he’d ever really had Sirius.

“Well. Good for you, then. Look, I’d better go, Remus, it was very nice to see you again.” Christopher stood up, and extended a formal hand for Remus to shake. “We ought to have a proper catch up, one of these days, let me know if you’re ever in Diagon Alley, perhaps, I’ll arrange lunch.”

“Ok,” Remus nodded, shaking his hand.

He knew he would never be in Diagon Alley, and as Christopher didn’t give him any contact details Remus assumed that the invitation was merely politeness. He did not miss pureblood hypocrisy.他知道自己永遠不會去對角巷，而且由於克里斯托弗沒有給他任何聯繫方式，萊姆斯認為邀請只是出於禮貌。他並不懷念純血統的虛偽。

Remus walked home quickly, ignoring the ache in his hip, and was relieved beyond belief to find Grant already there, in the kitchen.

 

萊姆斯快步走回家，忽略了臀部的疼痛，難以置信地發現格蘭特已經在廚房裡了，他鬆了一口氣。

“Wotcher, boffin,” he grinned, “How was the museum?”

“Good, thanks. Interesting.”

“Reckon I should take some of the lads there on a trip, if I can get it past the governor.” He held up two tins, “Beans on toast, or spaghetti hoops on toast?”“我想如果我能通過州長的話，我應該帶一些小伙子去那裡旅行。”他舉起兩個罐頭，“吐司上放豆子，還是吐司上放意大利麵圈？”

“Whichever you prefer,” Remus said, watching him. Grant looked at them both cheerfully,

“Hoops then. With lots of Worcestershire, eh?”那就籃球吧。伍斯特郡有很多地方，是嗎？

“Sounds perfect.” Remus breathed.

“ Perfect ,” Grant chuckled, “You must be hungry.”

“No, I just… just missed you, that’s all.”

“I’ve only been at work.”

“I know…”

“Daft sod.” Grant shook his head, still smiling, turning his back to open the cutlery drawer and find the tin opener.“愚蠢的草皮。”格蘭特搖搖頭，仍然微笑著，轉身打開餐具抽屜，找到開罐器。

Remus crossed the room quickly, and hugged him, wrapping his arms around Grant’s waist, pulling him in and inhaling the scent of him. Grant set down the tin opener carefully, and hugged Remus back, rubbing his arms. “You alright, sweetheart?”萊姆斯快步穿過房間，擁抱了他，用雙臂環抱格蘭特的腰，把他拉進懷裡，吸入他身上的氣味。格蘭特小心翼翼地放下開罐器，回抱萊姆斯，揉搓他的手臂。 “你還好嗎，親愛的？”

 

“Mmmhm.” Remus said, into his neck. “Just glad you’re here.”

 

“嗯嗯。”萊姆斯對著他的脖子說。 “很高興你在這裡。”

British-isms:
- UCL - University College London
- National insurance card - Has your national insurance number on it. In the UK you need this to get a job, as it ensures you are making the right tax contributions on your salary. National insurance payments, made over your working life, mean you are entitled to various benefits (Job seekers allowance, maternity allowance etc.) and your state pension. I'm guessing wizards don't have them lol.
- The Observer - National broadsheet newspaper.
- Kick-about - impromptu/casual game of football. I'm guessing it's the equivalent to when Americans 'toss a ball around' or 'play catch'.
- Harrods - (not sure this actually needs explaining) high-end London department store, only used by tourists and the mega-rich.
- Boffin - a clever person (nerd, geek etc.)
- Worcestershire - Worcestershire sauce - the best possible condiment for beans/hoops on toast. Pronounced 'wooster', like the place.)

 

 

Chapter 180: 1989Got on a lucky one

Came in eighteen to one

I've got a feeling

This year's for me and you

So happy Christmas

I love you baby!

I can see a better time

When all our dreams come true.


In 1989, Remus actually went to Oxford Street to do his Christmas shopping, on Grant’s insistence.

“You’ve never been?!” He had gasped, eyes wide, “You haven’t seen the lights?!”

“I didn’t think proper Londoners got involved in all that nonsense.” Remus replied, defensively.

“ Proper Londoners leave the house.” Grant said. “And buy presents for their friends.”

“I don’t have any friends.” Remus said - then felt awful. Because of course, he had Grant.

“What about that Mary bird? Sends you letters all the time.”

“Oh yeah. I could get her something, maybe.”

“That’s the spirit, Ebenezer.”
“这就对了，埃比尼泽。”

Remus shrugged off the teasing, because he knew Grant loved Christmas - or any opportunity to celebrate, really - and Grant had had a very difficult year.
雷穆斯无视了这个玩笑，因为他知道Grant喜欢圣诞节——或任何庆祝的机会——而Grant这一年过得非常艰难。

Having worked so hard to gain his school leaving certificate, pushing every step of the way to get A-Levels and various other qualifications, all so that he could have his dream job, which was helping other people, Grant had finally come up against an insurmountable opponent. The government - more specifically, The Local Government Act.
Grant辛苦地拿到了毕业证书，每一步都在努力获得A-Level和其他各种资格证书，只为了能拥有他梦想的工作，即帮助他人。但最终，Grant遇到了一个无法逾越的对手。政府——更具体地说，是《地方政府法》。

In 1988, Section 28 passed, and Grant was no longer secure in his position at work. Remus hadn’t really understood it at first, or at least, couldn’t see why Grant should have to worry.
1988年，《第28条》通过，Grant的工作不再有保障。雷穆斯一开始并没有真正理解，或者至少，不明白Grant为什么要担心。

“You don’t work for the council, though,” he frowned, flicking through the leaflets Grant and his friends had been printing for awareness-raising.
“但你不是为议会工作啊，”他皱着眉头，翻阅着Grant和他的朋友们为了提高意识而打印的小册子。

“Yes I do,” Grant replied, “Local authority includes schools and Borstals - and that's what it’s really about. They don’t want us perverting kids.”
“是的，我是，”Grant回答，“地方当局包括学校和少年犯管教所——这就是问题的实质。他们不希望我们‘诱导’孩子。”

“That’s ridiculous.” Remus said.
“这太荒谬了。”雷穆斯说道。

“I know.”
“我知道。”

Remus re-read the text.
雷穆斯重新读了一遍文本。

A local authority shall not intentionally promote homosexuality or publish material with the intention of promoting homosexuality, or promote the teaching in any maintained school of the acceptability of homosexuality as a pretended family relationship.
地方当局不得故意宣扬同性恋或出版旨在宣扬同性恋的材料，或在任何公立学校教授同性恋作为一种假装的家庭关系的可接受性。

“Pretended?!” Remus shook his head.
“假装的？！”雷穆斯摇了摇头。

“I know.” Grant sighed.
“我知道。”Grant叹了口气。

“What does this mean, though? ‘Promote’ homosexuality? How do you promote it?”
“这是什么意思？‘宣扬’同性恋？你怎么宣扬它？”

“Well that’s where the cunts have been clever, innit.” Grant huffed, “It don’t mean anything, not really. Just means if anyone wants to argue against it the fucking Tories can accuse them of wanting to ‘promote’ queerness or some bollocks.”
“这就是那些混蛋聪明的地方。”Grant气喘吁吁地说，“它其实什么都不意味着。只是意味着如果有人想反对它，该死的保守党可以指责他们想要‘宣扬’同性恋或其他废话。”

“But that’s…”
“但这……”

“Completely mental? Evil? Immoral. Yeah. My mate Gay Bob, he’s already had to shut down the Gay Youths Support group, only started that last year. And my place ain’t exempt, the governor's already asking for a list of books we carry, check none of them are too queer.”
“完全疯了？邪恶？不道德。对。我朋友Gay Bob已经不得不关闭同性恋青年支持小组，只是去年才成立的。而且我的地方也不例外，州长已经在要求我们提供所带书籍的清单，确保其中没有太‘同性恋’的书。”

“But they can’t… they wouldn’t sack you?”
“但他们不能……他们不会解雇你吧？”

“I don’t know, love. I’m already trying to keep my head down over the AIDs thing.”
“我不知道，亲爱的。我已经在尽量低调处理艾滋病的事情了。”

Remus felt even worse about that. The staff at the centre Grant worked at had all been hauled into a meeting one day, and told in no uncertain terms that if any one of them contracted HIV, then they would be dismissed without notice - and the police would be notified. That was terrifying enough.
雷穆斯对此感到更加难过。Grant工作的中心的所有员工有一天都被召集到一个会议上，被明确告知如果他们中的任何一人感染了HIV，他们将被无通知解雇——并通知警方。这已经够吓人的了。

For the past eighteen months, Grant had been working tirelessly with his friends and various groups to appeal Section 28, and it wasn’t going well at all. He’d almost been arrested at one protest, and caught a black eye off an anti-protester at another.
在过去的十八个月里，Grant一直和他的朋友们以及各种团体不懈地努力，呼吁废除第28条，但进展非常不顺利。他几乎在一次抗议活动中被逮捕，在另一次抗议中被反抗议者打了黑眼圈。

“It’s war.” he said fiercely, when he returned, and Remus made him sit still so he could heal it, “It’s us and them, that’s how they want it, and that’s what they’ll get.”
“这是战争。”他凶狠地说，当他回来时，雷穆斯让他坐着不动，好让他能治愈，“这是我们和他们，他们就是这么想的，他们会得到他们想要的。”

Remus did not know what to say. He didn’t want a war, he just wanted to be left alone. He never said that, though, because deep down, he was very proud of Grant’s barefaced refusal to give up or give even an inch. He had always admired bravery most of all.
雷穆斯不知道该说什么。他不想要战争，他只想被单独留下。不过，他从来没有说过，因为在心底，他非常为Grant的毫不退让感到骄傲。他一直最钦佩勇气。

So, in late December, Remus and Grant bundled themselves up in woolly hats, gloves and scarves, and walked through the wintry grey city to Oxford Circus. Grant was right - the prat - the lights were great. Strung across the wide street like jungle vines, great gleaming golden bulbs illuminated the cheerful red double deckers, the shiny black cabs, the glorious silver and green window displays.
因此，在十二月底，雷穆斯和Grant裹上毛线帽、手套和围巾，穿过寒冷灰暗的城市走到牛津街口。Grant说得对——那个蠢人——灯光很棒。像丛林藤蔓一样跨过宽阔的街道，巨大的金色灯泡照亮了欢快的红色双层巴士，闪亮的黑色出租车，光辉的银色和绿色橱窗展示。

It was true, Remus had been avoiding Christmas and all its trappings, just like he avoided his birthdays. He was worried they’d send him hurtling backwards - to Hogwarts, to the Potters mansion, to all of his most bittersweet memories. It was very hard to be without his friends at that time of year.
确实，雷穆斯一直在避开圣诞节及其所有装饰品，就像他避开自己的生日一样。他担心这些会让他猛然回到过去——回到霍格沃茨，回到Potters的豪宅，回到他所有最苦乐参半的记忆中。在那段时间里，没有朋友在身边是非常难熬的。

But there was something very cleansing about the chaos of shopping on Oxford Street. The noise and the bustle and the smells ensured that he couldn’t sulk for very long, and Grant’s enthusiasm for the season did the rest.
但是在牛津街购物的混乱中，有一种非常净化的感觉。喧嚣和熙熙攘攘的气味确保了他不能长时间地闷闷不乐，而Grant对这个季节的热情则完成了剩下的部分。

“Right, let’s have a look for Mary’s pressie first, shall we?” He grinned up at Remus, bouncing on the balls of his feet. “House of Fraser? Or is she a Selfridges girl?”
“好吧，我们先看看给Mary的礼物，好吗？”他对雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，脚尖跳动着。“House of Fraser？还是她是Selfridges的女孩？”

“Whichever is trendier, I s’pose,” Remus said. “What did you have in mind?”
“哪个更时尚，我猜，”雷穆斯说。“你有什么想法？”

“Gawd, I’ve no idea. Bath shit?”
“天哪，我不知道。浴室用品？”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, “Bath shit. Or perfume?”
“对，”雷穆斯点点头，“浴室用品。或者香水？”

“Ooh, perfume, eh?” Grant nudged him with his elbow, “That’s intimate. Should I be worried?”
“哦，香水，嗯？”Grant用胳膊肘轻推他，“那很亲密。我该担心吗？”

“About Mary?” Remus snorted, “You’d be too late.”
“关于Mary？”雷穆斯哼了一声，“你太晚了。”

They wandered through the perfume departments of three or four big department stores. Remus somewhat regretted his choice, then - his hypersensitive sense of smell meant that he was already nursing a headache after the first stop.
他们在三四家大百货公司的香水部门闲逛。雷穆斯有些后悔他的选择——他过于敏感的嗅觉意味着他在第一站后就已经头疼了。

He eventually settled on something floral, in a pink and gold bottle, because it was pretty, and stylish, and Mary was pretty and stylish. He even had it gift wrapped, in gold paper with a red satin bow. Gryffindor colours, he smiled to himself.
他最终选了一款花香型的香水，装在一个粉色和金色的瓶子里，因为它漂亮又时尚，而Mary也漂亮又时尚。他甚至把它用金色纸包好，系上红色缎带。格兰芬多的颜色，他自言自语地笑了。

“Right, you can buy my present next,” Grant grinned, tugging his sleeve, “I want new socks, mine have all got holes.”
“好吧，接下来你可以给我买礼物了，”Grant笑着说，拉着他的袖子，“我想要新的袜子，我的袜子都破洞了。”

Remus took a big gulp of cold fresh air as they came outside, relieved. “I’ve got to get you something better than socks,” he said.
雷穆斯大口呼吸着新鲜的冷空气，当他们走到外面时，他松了一口气。“我得给你买点比袜子更好的东西，”他说。

“Could do with some new Y-fronts too.” Grant winked, and Remus blushed, looking down. He’d get something really nice, later on, when Grant wasn’t looking. He wasn’t sure what, yet, and he didn’t have a lot - but maybe a new coat might not stretch things too far? Grant was in dire need of one, his second-hand duffle barely kept the chill off.
“也需要一些新的Y型前开裤。”Grant眨了眨眼，雷穆斯脸红了，低下头。他会在Grant不注意的时候买一些真的很好的东西。他还不确定是什么，而且他也没有很多钱——但也许一件新外套不会太过分？Grant急需一件，他的二手粗呢大衣几乎不能御寒。

“What do you want?” Grant asked, looking at a window display designed to look like the north pole, with big white pillows stacked up to look like igloos and gigantic stuffed toy penguins.
“你想要什么？”Grant问，看着一个设计成北极模样的橱窗展示，堆满了像冰屋一样的大白色枕头和巨大的填充玩具企鹅。

“Chocolate.” Remus shrugged.
“巧克力。”雷穆斯耸耸肩。

“That’s what I always get you…”
“那是我总是给你的……”

“That’s all I want, now I don’t smoke.”
“那是我现在唯一想要的，因为我不抽烟了。”

Grant shook his head, tutting at Remus’s temperance.
Grant摇了摇头，对雷穆斯的节制咂舌。

Suddenly, Remus caught a whiff of magic. For a moment he wondered if his senses were just wrecked by all the perfume, but no, it was very clear. He looked up and down the street, curiously. Then he saw him, standing outside the Marks & Spencer’s window display.
突然，雷穆斯闻到了一丝魔法的气息。他一度怀疑是否是他的感官被所有的香水搞坏了，但不是，气息很清晰。他好奇地上下打量街道。然后他看到了他，站在马莎百货的橱窗展示外。

“Christopher? Is that you?” Remus approached slowly.
“Christopher？是你吗？”雷穆斯慢慢走近。

“Remus!” Christopher turned, surprised.
“雷穆斯！”Christopher转过身来，惊讶地说。

“We have to stop meeting like this,” Remus laughed. He was in a good mood, and at least he hadn’t caught Chris in a compromising situation this time.
“我们得停止这样见面了，”雷穆斯笑了。他心情很好，至少这次他没有抓到Chris在一个尴尬的境地。

“Yes, quite right,” Christopher laughed too, a little nervously, clearing his throat at the end. He was carrying several bulging shopping bags, in both hands. “How are you? Sorry I haven’t been in touch, it’s been ever so busy at work.”
“是的，非常正确，”Christopher也笑了，有点紧张，最后清了清喉咙。他双手提着几个鼓鼓的购物袋。“你好吗？抱歉我一直没有联系，工作太忙了。”

“That’s ok. I’m well,” Remus nodded. Christopher’s eyes flicked towards Grant. Remus remembered his manners, “Sorry, er, this is Grant, my…”
“没关系。我很好，”雷穆斯点点头。Christopher的目光转向Grant。雷穆斯记起了礼貌，“抱歉，呃，这是Grant，我的……”

“Better half.” Grant finished with a cheeky grin, holding out a gloved hand. Christopher looked as though he didn’t know whether to laugh along too, but he shifted his shopping bags to shake Grant’s hand.
“另一半。”Grant调皮地笑着说，伸出戴着手套的手。Christopher看起来不确定是否也要笑，但他换了购物袋来握Grant的手。

“Christopher Barley,” he said.
“Christopher Barley，”他说。

“Chris and I were at school together,” Remus explained.
“Chris和我一起上学的，”雷穆斯解释道。

“Oh, I see,” Grant nodded, eagerly, his eyes bulging. He never said anything about it, but Remus knew Grant was secretly dying to meet another wizard, just to compare. “Live in London, do ya?”
“哦，我明白了，”Grant急切地点头，眼睛瞪得大大的。他从来没有说过什么，但雷穆斯知道Grant暗地里很想见到另一个巫师，只是为了比较一下。“住在伦敦吗？”

“Er, no. Just in for shopping, you know. Christmas.”
“呃，不。只是来购物，你知道的。圣诞节。”

“Us too,” Remus said.
“我们也是，”雷穆斯说。

“How nice.” Chris said very formally. It was starting to get a bit weird - Remus felt like they were at a middle class cocktail party or something, exchanging pleasantries.
“真好。”Chris非常正式地说。事情开始变得有点奇怪了——雷穆斯觉得他们像是在中产阶级的鸡尾酒会上之类的地方，交换客套话。

“Chris dear? There you are!” A short blonde woman came trotting up the street in neat black high heels and a gorgeous ermine coat. She was tugging a little boy along by the hand - he looked about five years old, and he had Christopher’s eyes. “Can we go quite soon? There are too many muggles about, it’s suffocating.”
“亲爱的Chris？你在这里！”一个矮个子金发女人穿着整洁的黑色高跟鞋和华丽的白鼬大衣跑上街来。她牵着一个小男孩——他看起来大约五岁，有着Christopher的眼睛。“我们能快点走吗？这里有太多麻瓜了，令人窒息。”

Christopher avoided Remus’s gaze, and greeted the woman.
Christopher避开雷穆斯的目光，迎接了那个女人。

“Sorry, dear, I was just… I bumped into an old Hogwarts friend.” He gestured vaguely.
“抱歉，亲爱的，我只是……碰到了一位老霍格沃茨的朋友。”他模糊地示意。

“How lovely!” She turned her red-lipped smile on Remus. She held out a tiny hand, and he shook it awkwardly, not sure if he was supposed to kiss it.
“真可爱！”她转向雷穆斯，露出红唇微笑。她伸出一只小手，雷穆斯尴尬地握了握，不确定是否应该吻它。

“Darling, this is Remus, and his friend Grant. Remus… this is Åsa,” Christopher mumbled, “My wife. And Henrik, my son.”
“亲爱的，这是雷穆斯，他的朋友Grant。雷穆斯……这是Åsa，”Christopher含糊地说，“我的妻子。这是Henrik，我的儿子。”

“Pleased to meet you,” Remus nodded. Grant nodded too, but Remus could tell he was uncomfortable.
“很高兴见到你，”雷穆斯点头。Grant也点头，但雷穆斯能看出他不舒服。

“It is a pleasure!” Åsa gushed, “I have to say, I don’t meet so many of Christopher’s school mates. You must come for dinner one evening, and tell me all about his mischiefs!”
“很高兴见到你！”Åsa兴奋地说，“我得说，我不常见到Christopher的校友。你一定要某天晚上来吃晚饭，告诉我他所有的恶作剧！”

“Ha, yeah, definitely,” Remus laughed self-consciously, rubbing the back of his neck. He didn't even know what he was saying. Christopher was married?! He had a kid?!
“哈，是啊，当然，”雷穆斯自觉地笑着，揉了揉脖子后面。他甚至不知道自己在说什么。Christopher结婚了？！他有孩子了？！

“Well, we’d better be going.” Christopher said, his face weirdly blank. “Merry Christmas, Remus.”
“好了，我们该走了。”Christopher说，脸上表情奇怪地空白。“圣诞快乐，雷穆斯。”

“Merry Christmas…” Remus gave an awkward wave, as the family turned to walk away, towards Diagon Alley.
“圣诞快乐……”雷穆斯尴尬地挥了挥手，看着那家人转身离开，朝对角巷走去。

“Is it just me,” Grant said, as they left, “Or was that strange?”
“是我吗，”Grant说，当他们离开时，“还是那很奇怪？”

“Very.” Remus said. “He must have met her in Sweden… He said his family sent him there…”
“非常。”雷穆斯说。“他一定是在瑞典认识她的……他说他的家人把他送到那里……”

“It wasn’t her that was strange.” Grant said.
“不是她奇怪。”Grant说。

“No, I mean…” Remus bit his lip, “Er… so I know Chris from school, but I’ve seen him since. About eighteen months ago, coming out of that sauna in Soho.”
“不，我的意思是……”雷穆斯咬了咬嘴唇，“呃……我从学校认识Chris，但我之后见过他。大约十八个月前，他从Soho的那个桑拿浴室出来。”

“Oh!” Grant said. “Right, I get it. Poor bloke.”
“哦！”Grant说。“对，我明白了。可怜的家伙。”

“He never said anything then… he… how old did the kid look, to you?”
“那时他什么也没说……他……你觉得那个孩子看起来多大？”

“Older than eighteen months.” Grant shrugged.
“超过十八个月。”Grant耸耸肩。

“Yeah…”
“是啊……”

It soon began to rain; icy cold December rain, so they ran for the next bus and went home. Remus often thought about Christopher, after that, and it troubled him. There was nothing much he thought he could do about it, and really it was none of his business - but he didn’t understand at all. Had Christopher been convinced, or coerced? Did he love her, was he happy?
很快开始下雨了；冰冷的十二月雨，他们赶上下一班公交车回家。雷穆斯经常想到Christopher，之后，这让他很困扰。他认为自己没什么能做的，而且真的也不关他的事——但他完全不理解。Christopher是被说服了，还是被胁迫了？他爱她吗，他幸福吗？

By the time he and Grant got in from the rain they were freezing and soaked through. They took a hot shower to warm up, then Remus lit a fire in the old floo connection to heat up the flat for Grant.
当他和Grant从雨中回来时，他们已经冻僵了，浑身湿透。他们洗了个热水澡来暖和一下，然后雷穆斯在旧的飞路连接处点燃了火，为Grant加热公寓。

“How does that work when we ain’t got a chimney?” Grant asked, bringing in the tea.

“Magic.” Remus yawned, as Grant settled down beside him.

“I’m like that bloke in Bewitched married to the sexy blonde.”

“I don’t wiggle my nose though.”

“Aww, now I’ll never leave you alone until you do,” Grant grinned.

Remus gave him a haughty look, and pointed his wand at the radio. They were so cosy, it felt wrong to switch the telly on.

萊姆斯傲慢地看了他一眼，用魔杖指著收音機。他們是如此的舒適，打開電視感覺很不對勁。

"Thanks for coming with me, today." Grant said, wrapping his hands around his mug of tea to warm them, "I know you hate crowds."

"I don't mind, really. Thanks for getting me out of the house. And showing me the lights."

"Any time," Grant snorted. "Always cheers me up, Christmas shopping. Y'know, no one's thinking about themselves - just making other people happy - it's nice."

"I thought you were against the commercialisation of Christmas." Remus commented, wryly. Grant elbowed him,

"I am, but some of it's still nice. Anyway, thought you'd like a break from politics this weekend."

Remus didn't respond, just kissed Grant's cheek, and settled in to listen to the radio. The tail end of a Suzanne Vega song was playing. “Love this tune,” Grant murmured, leaning against his shoulder, “Love her voice, all clear and weird, you know what I mean?”

“It’s a greek myth,” Remus replied, drowsily, “Odysseus.”

“Nah, it’s something beginning with a C,” Grant replied, sipping his tea.

“Yes, Calypso - she’s the siren, but Odysseus is the main character.”

“Siren? Isn’t that like a mermaid?”

“Sort of. They lure men in with their singing.”

“Are they real?” Grant asked. He always wanted to know.

“Yes, mermaids are. I don’t know if Calypso was.”

“So what did she do? They fell in love, or what?”

“Odysseus’s story is called The Odyssey. It’s all about his journey home from the Trojan War.” Remus furrowed his brow, trying to remember. It was Homer - he'd read that in his second year, either before or after The Epic of Gilgamesh, he couldn't remember. He hadn't really liked The Odyssey - he'd preferred The Illiad, because that had all the good war stuff in it. Maybe he'd feel different now, as an adult.
“奥德修斯的故事叫《奥德赛》。它讲的是他从特洛伊战争回家的旅程。”雷穆斯皱起眉头，试图回忆。这是荷马的作品——他在二年级时读过，不记得是在《吉尔伽美什史诗》之前还是之后读的。他当时并不太喜欢《奥德赛》——他更喜欢《伊利亚特》，因为里面有很多精彩的战争内容。也许现在作为成年人会有不同的感觉。

“The Trojans... are they the ones with the wooden horse?” Grant asked, still trying to follow the thread.
“特洛伊人……他们是用木马的那群人吗？”Grant问，仍在努力跟上话题。

“Yeah, that’s right. Odysseus gets into all sorts of trouble as he tries to get home to his wife, Penelope. But the sea god gets angry with him about something - can't remember what, but he destroys Odysseus’s ship, and he washes up on this island, where Calypso lives. She falls in love with him and holds him hostage for seven years.”

“对，就是他们。奥德修斯在试图回家见妻子佩内洛普的途中遇到了各种麻烦。但海神因为某些事情生气了——我不记得是什么了，但他摧毁了奥德修斯的船，奥德修斯被冲上了卡吕普索居住的岛上。她爱上了他，并把他囚禁了七年。”

“What does she do to him?”

“Oh, I dunno. Feeds him, heals his wounds and stuff. I think she dances a lot.”

“She doesn’t sound too bad. She sounds kind.”

“Maybe. But she wants to make him immortal, and Odysseus wants to get back to Penelope. Calypso isn’t his true love.”

“Sort of sad.” Grant huffed, sounding put out.

“It’s just a story.” Remus shrugged. 

Chapter 181~188Chapter Summary

181. 1990 (2018-10-31)
182. 1991 (2018-11-05)
183. Summer 1993 (2018-11-06)
184. Summer 1994 (2018-11-07)
185. Early Summer 1995 (2018-11-08)
186. Summer 1995: Grant (2018-11-09)
187. Summer 1995: Sirius (2018-11-10)
188. 'Til the End (2018-11-12)

Chapter 181: 1990 And then she turns to me with her hand extended

Her palm is split with a flower with a flame

 

And she says "I've come to set a twisted thing straight."

And she says "l've come to lighten this dark heart."

And she takes my wrist, I feel her imprint of fear

And I say "I've never thought of finding you here."

 

Mary had her first child that year - a little girl she called Rachel, after her mother. Rachel Marlene.
Mary 那年生了她的第一个孩子——一个小女孩，她以母亲的名字叫她 Rachel。Rachel Marlene。
“Not gonna lie,” she told Remus over the phone, “I’m praying she’s a squib. Can’t be doing with all that nonsense.”
“说实话，”她在电话里对雷穆斯说，“我希望她是个哑炮。我可不想再管那些胡闹的事。”
She invited him to the Christening, and he went out of obligation. It had been decades since he’d set foot in a church, and this was a huge catholic one in Croydon. Grant didn’t come, said he was too scared he’d burst into flames when he crossed the threshold.
她邀请他参加洗礼，他是出于义务去的。他已经有几十年没有踏入教堂了，而这次是在克罗伊登的一座大天主教堂。Grant 没有来，他说他害怕一跨过门槛就会被烧成灰烬。
“That’s ridiculous,” Remus sighed, tired and humourless, “Mary is literally a witch. If she’s safe in a church...”
“那太荒谬了，”雷穆斯叹了口气，疲倦而毫无幽默感地说，“Mary 还是个巫婆呢。如果她在教堂里没事……”
“My grandad was a bible-basher,” Grant shuddered, “They can all do one, far as I’m concerned.”
“我爷爷是个狂热的宗教信徒，”Grant 战栗道，“在我看来，他们全都一样。”
Grant was rarely so stubborn, so Remus went alone, and tried not to think about funerals.
Grant 很少这么固执，所以雷穆斯一个人去了，尽量不去想葬礼的事。
After the ceremony, there was a bit of a party in the hall next door, and Mary showed off the baby. She was gorgeous; chubby with huge brown eyes and huge brown curls and a gummy smile sure to be as dazzling as her mothers’ one day. Remus waved at the giggling cherub nervously, and patted her soft baby hand.
仪式结束后，隔壁大厅里有一个小聚会，Mary 带着宝宝四处炫耀。她非常漂亮；胖乎乎的，有着大大的棕色眼睛和大大的棕色卷发，还有一个没有牙齿的笑容，肯定有一天会像她母亲一样耀眼。雷穆斯紧张地向咯咯笑的小天使挥手，并轻拍她柔软的小手。
“I’m completely obsessed with her.” Mary gushed, holding her up, “Want to hold her?” Mary grinned, then laughed that girlish cackle which took him back years, “I’m teasing, Remus darling. Here, I’ll give her to Darren’s mum for a bit, let’s you and me have a catch up…”
“我完全迷上她了。”Mary 说着，抱起她，“想抱抱她吗？”Mary 咧嘴一笑，然后笑出那种让他回到多年以前的少女般的咯咯笑声，“我逗你的，雷穆斯亲爱的。来，我把她交给 Darren 的妈妈一会儿，我们聊聊天……”
They sat on red plastic chairs in a quiet corner of the church hall, clutching paper cups of watered down orange squash. It was a small space, filled with the noise of family celebration, and children playing. Mary’s family was huge, and as brash and loveable as she was. Remus felt very out of place, but what else was new.
他们坐在教堂大厅一个安静角落的红色塑料椅子上，手里拿着装满稀释橙汁的纸杯。那是一个小空间，充满了家庭庆祝的喧闹声和孩子们的嬉戏声。Mary 的家族庞大，像她一样粗犷可爱。雷穆斯觉得自己很格格不入，但这有什么新奇的呢。
“You’re not getting married, then?” Remus asked, “You and Darren?”
“你不结婚吗？”雷穆斯问道，“你和 Darren？”
“Shh, Mum’ll hear you,” Mary giggled, “She’s furious, of course, she’s pretending we had a small ceremony in Jamaica before Rachel was conceived. Nah, I don’t fancy it - and we’ve barely got the time what with the garage and the new house…”
“嘘，妈妈会听到的，”Mary 咯咯笑道，“她当然很生气，她假装我们在 Rachel 怀上之前在牙买加举行了一个小仪式。不，我不想结婚——而且我们几乎没有时间，因为有车库和新房子要忙……”
Remus nodded along, smiling. It felt so good to be sitting next to Mary again; to have her chattering away, full of energy and joy.
雷穆斯微笑着点头。再次坐在 Mary 旁边感觉真好；听她喋喋不休，充满了活力和快乐。
“How about you, still up Soho?” Mary asked, giving him an appraising look. He’d come dressed in a suit he had bought the day before from a charity shop. It was ok; a bit seventies, and too big on him, but that was the style these days anyway.
“你呢，还在 Soho 吗？”Mary 问道，打量着他。他穿着前一天从慈善商店买的一套西装。还不错；有点七十年代的风格，对他来说太大了，但这正是现在的流行款式。
“Yeah.” He nodded, “Don’t think I’ll ever move, to be honest, the flat’s paid for.”
“是的。”他点头说，“说实话，我想我永远不会搬家，房子已经付清了。”
“Got a boyfriend?”
“有男朋友了吗？”
“Mm, sort of…”
“嗯，算是吧……”
“I know you have, why are you being so mysterious? Is he a muggle?”
“我知道你有，为什么这么神秘？他是麻瓜吗？”
“Yeah.”
“是的。”
“Oh, I wish you’d come and see me more often, Remus. I worry about you.”
“哦，我希望你能经常来看我，雷穆斯。我很担心你。”
He smiled at her, “You’re such a mum.”
他对她微笑，“你真像个妈妈。”
That made her laugh. “Guilty!”
这让她笑了起来。“没错！”
She was still beautiful, and looked the same at thirty as she had at eighteen, in his mind. She wore a loud, hot pink dress suit with razor sharp power shoulders and a gleaming gold fascinator perched atop her head. She’d cut her hair short, making her face look more angular, like a Nefertiti bust.
她依然很美，在他眼中三十岁的她和十八岁时一样。她穿着一套鲜艳的热粉色连衣裙，肩部带有锋利的力量感，头上戴着一顶闪亮的金色礼帽。她把头发剪短了，使她的脸看起来更加棱角分明，像是尼费尔提蒂的半身像。
“Mum keeps calling me ‘Grace Jones’,” Mary touched her bare neck self-consciously, “I like it, though. Can’t waste time fussing in front of the mirror when I’ve got the little monkey keeping me on my toes. Are you working somewhere?”
“妈妈一直叫我‘Grace Jones’，”Mary 不自觉地摸了摸自己裸露的脖子，“不过我喜欢。当我有了这个小猴子让我时刻警觉时，不能在镜子前浪费时间。你在工作吗？”
“Oh… here and there,” Remus shrugged, noncommittally. “You know what it’s like.”
“哦……这儿那儿的，”雷穆斯耸耸肩，不置可否。“你知道的。”
“You know Dumbledore gave Snape a job,” Mary leaned in and whispered. Remus didn’t know why - he was the only other person there who knew who Dumbledore or Snape were. “He’s a teacher at Hogwarts, now. Can you believe that?!”
“你知道邓布利多给了斯内普一个工作，”Mary 靠过来低声说。雷穆斯不知道为什么——那里只有他知道邓布利多或斯内普是谁。“他现在是霍格沃茨的老师。你能相信吗？！”
Remus shrugged. Mary continued, furious. This had obviously been on her mind for some time, “When I think of all the suffering that snivelling coward caused! When I think about all the friends I’ve lost… Lily and James, Peter... Marlene.”
雷穆斯耸耸肩。Mary 继续说，愤怒不已。这显然在她心中存了很久，“当我想到那个哭鼻子的懦夫造成的所有痛苦！当我想到我失去

“Snape wasn’t responsible for their deaths.”

“How are we to know? So what, he turned spy for two bloody weeks at the end - and that guarantees him a cushy job for life, does it? What was he doing while we were hiding in cellars like rats? Where was he when we were disappearing by the day?!”
“我们怎么知道呢？就算他最后当了两周的间谍——那也能保证他一辈子有个舒服的职位吗？当我们像老鼠一样躲在地窖里时，他在干什么？我们一天一个消失，他在哪里？！”

“Mary…”
“Mary……”

“I just can’t believe Dumbledore. Has he offered you any help? He hasn’t me. Not worth his time, I suppose. They all stuck together in the end; the old families.”
“我简直不敢相信邓布利多。他有给你什么帮助吗？他没给过我。也许是觉得我不值得他的时间。最终他们都团结在一起；那些老家族。”

“I don’t want anything from him.” Remus said, “Being in Dumbledore’s debt is too dangerous. Anyway. Snape has to live with what he did; just like we all do.”
“我不想要他的任何东西。”雷穆斯说，“欠邓布利多的人情太危险了。总之，斯内普必须面对他所做的事；就像我们都得面对一样。”

She lowered her eyes, then, and Remus knew they were both thinking about Sirius.
她低下了眼睛，雷穆斯知道他们俩都在想天狼星。

“I tell you what, Remus my love,” She said, finally, “I don’t care if she’s magic or not, my baby girl won’t be cannon fodder for that old bastard. Next time that lot want a war, you and me are going to be smart enough to keep well out of it, eh?”
“告诉你吧，我亲爱的雷穆斯，”她最后说道，“我不在乎她是否有魔法，我的宝贝女儿绝不会成为那个老混蛋的炮灰。下次他们想打仗时，你我一定要足够聪明，远离那些事，好吗？”

“Too right.” Remus replied. They could agree on that, at least. He’d join the werewolves again before he ever re-joined the Order.
“说得对。”雷穆斯回答道。至少在这一点上，他们可以达成一致。他宁愿重新加入狼人，也不愿再加入凤凰社。

“You know, having Rachel makes me think about Harry.” Mary said, wistfully. “Now I’ve got a child of my own, just don’t know how Lily and James did it. Remember? We were all just kids, playing mummies and daddies, weren’t we?”
“你知道，有了 Rachel 我会想起 Harry。”Mary 感慨地说道，“现在我自己也有了孩子，真不知道 Lily 和 James 是怎么做到的。记得吗？我们当时都是孩子，只是在玩‘爸爸妈妈’的游戏，不是吗？”

“I s’pose, yeah.”
“是啊，我想是的。”

“He’ll be starting Hogwarts next year, Harry.”
“他明年就要开始霍格沃茨了，Harry。”

“What?! No, that’s not right, he must only be…” Remus struggled to do the maths in his head. “Shit.” He said. “I didn’t even think.”
“什么？！不，这不对，他应该只有……”雷穆斯努力在脑海中计算。“糟糕。”他说，“我没想到。”

“Poor little love, going to school with no parents to see him off.”
“可怜的小家伙，没有父母送他去上学。”

“Mm…”
“嗯……”

“Oh gosh, sorry, Remus! I wasn’t thinking…”
“哦天哪，对不起，雷穆斯！我没想到……”

“It’s fine,” he chuckled, “I’ve got over being an orphan by now.”
“没关系，”他笑了，“我现在已经不再为自己是孤儿而伤感了。”

He stayed for about an hour before heading off to catch his bus in the cold dark of an early winter evening. He clutched two slices of cake wrapped in pink paper napkins - one for you, one for your ‘sort of’ boyfriend, Mary winked as she’d handed them over.
他待了大约一个小时，然后在寒冷黑暗的初冬傍晚离开，去赶公交车。他紧握着两片裹在粉色纸巾里的蛋糕——一片给你，一片给你那“有点”男朋友，Mary 在递给他时眨了眨眼。

He kissed her cheek, and she stretched up on her tiptoes to hug him. She smelled the same, and it made him want to cry.
他亲吻了她的脸颊，她踮起脚尖抱住他。她的味道还是一样，这让他想哭。

“Love you, sweetheart,” she whispered, “I’m so pleased to see you getting back to yourself.”
“爱你，亲爱的，”她低声说，“我很高兴看到你重新回到自己。”

He gave her a half-smile, congratulated her again, and left.
他给了她一个半笑，祝贺她一遍，然后离开了。

She was right. He was getting back to himself - or if not that, becoming somebody else; somebody who was coping. He’d kicked fags and booze, he rarely spent afternoons staring at his bedroom ceiling, unable to get dressed. Sometimes weird things made him anxious, like the smell of motor oil, or when they played old Bowie songs on the radio. Once he’d seen a teenage girl with ginger hair get off a bus in Finsbury Park and almost followed her home. But he was doing better.
她说得对。他正在找回自己——或者说，变成了另一个人；一个能够应对的人。他戒了烟和酒，几乎不会再花时间盯着卧室的天花板，无力起床。有时，一些奇怪的事会让他焦虑，比如机油的味道，或是收音机里播放老鲍伊的歌曲。一次，他看到一个有红发的少女在芬斯伯里公园下了公交车，差点跟着她回家。但他在好转。

Sometimes he could even think about Sirius. Sometimes he could talk about him - only to Grant, and only if he asked. Funny things, like pranks they’d done at school, or stupid in-jokes. He didn’t think about them being together - he turned Sirius into a different person in his mind, just another character from his school days. That made things much easier.
有时他甚至能想到天狼星。有时他可以谈论他——只对 Grant，只有在 Grant 问起的时候。他会说一些有趣的事，比如他们在学校时做的恶作剧，或者那些愚蠢的笑话。他不再想着他们在一起的样子——他在脑海中把天狼星变成了另一个人，只是他学校时代的另一个角色。这让事情容易多了。

After the Christening, on the way home, Remus thought about Harry. He hoped the kid was happy, or at least that he wasn’t angry. Remus tried to picture himself, aged 11, crossing through the barrier at King’s Cross for the first time. It had been nerve-wracking and exhilarating, and he hadn’t known how to act, how to relate to anyone else. And then he’d met James, the first friendly face on the train that day. It was too cruel that Harry wouldn’t ever know him.
洗礼后，在回家的路上，雷穆斯想到 Harry。他希望那个孩子快乐，或者至少希望他不生气。雷穆斯试着想象自己11岁时第一次穿过国王十字车站的屏障。那时既紧张又兴奋，他不知道该怎么表现，怎么与别人相处。然后他遇到了 James，那天火车上的第一个友善面孔。太残酷了，Harry 永远不会认识他。

Remus was in danger of getting nostalgic now, and weepy, so he got off the bus to walk the rest of the way home. He was tired by the time he got in, and his hip hurt, but that was ok; he felt good about having left the house.
雷穆斯现在有点容易感伤和伤感了，于是他下了公交车，步行回家。回到家时他很累，臀部也很疼，但没关系；他对自己离开家感到满意。

“All right, sunshine?” Grant called from the kitchen as Remus shut the front door.
“怎么样，阳光？”Grant 在厨房里喊道，雷穆斯关上前门时。

“Hiya,”
“嗨，”

“How was it?”
“怎么样？”

“Church bit was boring. Seeing Mary was nice.”
“教堂的部分很无聊。见到 Mary 很好。”

“Oh good,” Grant came through to lean in the door frame. He was drying a dish they’d used last night.
“哦，好。”Grant 走过来倚在门框上。他正在擦干他们昨晚用过的碗盘。

“Leave that, I’ll do it.” Remus said, collapsing into the couch.
“别管那个，我来做。”雷穆斯说，瘫倒在沙发上。

“Nah, it's done.”
“别，已经做完了。”

“Mary invited us for dinner. They live out in Hounslow though, bit of a trek… but if you fancied it...”
“Mary 邀请我们去吃饭。她们住在 Hounslow，那儿有点远……但如果你愿意的话……”

“Oh she knows who I am now?” Grant smirked.
“哦，她现在知道我是谁了？”Grant 露出得意的笑容。

“Sort of.” Remus blushed. “she knows I’m seeing someone, just…”
“算是吧。”雷穆斯脸红了。“她知道我在交往，只是……”

“For almost nine years, Remus…”
“快九年了，雷穆斯……”

“Sorry, it's just weird because… Mary knew me back then, you know.”
“对不起，只是有点奇怪，因为……Mary 当时认识我，你知道的。”

“She knew you when you were with Sirius.” Grant said flatly, turning back into the kitchen to put the plate away.
“她认识你那会儿你和天狼星在一起。”Grant 平淡地说，转回厨房放好盘子。

“Don’t be like that!” Remus said, getting up stiffly.
“别这样！”雷穆斯说，僵硬地站起来。

“I’m not being like anything.” Grant’s face was hidden by the cupboard door.
“我什么也没表现出来。”Grant 的脸被橱柜门遮住了。

“I invited you to the Christening, you didn’t want to come.”
“我邀请你去参加洗礼，你却不愿意来。”

“You know bloody well why, too.”
“你也知道原因。”

“You hate churches, I know.”
“我知道你讨厌教堂。”

“Well, then.”
“那就这样吧。”

“Why are we fighting?!” Remus frowned, confused.
“我们为什么要争吵？！”雷穆斯皱眉，感到困惑。

“This isn’t fighting.” Grant closed the door to the cupboard, sighing.
“这不是争吵。”Grant 关上橱柜门，叹了口气。

“What is it, then?”
“那是什么？”

“It was ten years ago, that's all. You’re still acting like I don’t matter as much as he did.”
“那是十年前的事。你还像以前一样表现得我不如他重要。”

“What?! No, that's mad, that's--"
“什么？！不，那太荒唐了，那是——”

“That's all I want to say.” Grant raises a hand to stop him. “Like I said, this isn’t a fight.”
“这就是我想说的。”Grant 举起手制止他。“就像我说的，这不是争吵。”

“But Grant, I don’t… you’re wrong, I swear! I want you to meet Mary, I do!”
“但 Grant，我不……我发誓你错了！我真的想让你见见 Mary！”

“I’m going for a walk, ok? I need some air.” Grant pushed past him to the door. He took his coat off the hook - the coat Remus had bought him last Christmas. “I’ll be back in an hour or so. Take a paracetamol for your hip, will you? You’re limping again.”
“我去散步，好吗？我需要透透气。”Grant 推开他，走向门口。他从钩子上拿下外套——那是雷穆斯去年圣诞节给他买的。“我会在一个小时左右回来。吃片扑热息痛吧，你的臀部又在跛行了。”

 

Chapter 182: 1991 

I’m sure that everybody knows

How much my body hates me.

It lets me down most every time

And makes me rash and hasty.

I feel a total jerk before your naked body of work…

 

Sexuality!

Young and warm and wild and free!

Sexuality

Your laws do not apply to me!

Sexuality

Don’t threaten me with misery!

Sexuality

I demand equality!

 

Saturday 9th March 1991

“Have you seen my wand?!”

“Nope.”

“Bugger!”

“Where did you last have it?”

“If I knew that I wouldn’t be looking, would I?!”

 

“All right, all right, keep your hair on,” Grant emerged from the bathroom smelling of toothpaste and pantene. Remus had almost turned the living room upside down in his search. He stood in the middle of the mess, running his fingers anxiously through his hair.
“好啦，好啦，别急，”Grant 从浴室里出来，身上有牙膏和潘婷的味道。雷穆斯在找东西时几乎把客厅翻了个底朝天。他站在一片狼藉中，焦虑地把手指穿过头发。

“I’ve got a million exam sheets to mark today, I really need it…”
“我今天有一大堆考试卷要批改，我真的需要它……”

“Just do it without magic, like the rest of us mortals,” Grant shrugged, lifting the couch cushions to help him look.
“就像我们这些凡人一样，别用魔法做，”Grant 摆了摆肩膀，掀起沙发垫子帮忙找。

“I can’t, I really need my wand…” Remus huffed, looking under the TV table.
“我不能，我真的需要我的魔杖……”雷穆斯气喘吁吁地说，低头在电视桌下找。

“Shame there ain’t a spell to find it, eh,” Grant chuckled. Then he saw Remus’s face, and turned serious, raising his hand, “Ok, don’t worry, we’ll find it… right, last time you used it… er… when the lights went, last night, remember?”
“可惜没有能找它的咒语，”Grant 轻笑道。然后他看到雷穆斯的脸，变得严肃，举起手说：“好了，别担心，我们会找到的……对了，上次你用它是……呃……昨晚停电的时候，记得吗？”

“Oh yeah!” Remus rushed into the bedroom. They’d been having power cuts at least twice a week for the past month - Remus thought that was all over now the miners were back to work, but apparently not.
“哦，对了！”雷穆斯急忙跑进卧室。过去一个月，他们至少每周停电两次——雷穆斯以为矿工们回去工作后这一切都结束了，但显然不是。

His wand had rolled under the bed. He snatched it up, relieved, and held it tight in his fist. “Thank Merlin.” He whispered to himself.
他的魔杖滚到床下了。他抓住它，松了口气，紧紧握在拳头里。“谢谢梅林。”他对自己低声说。

“Got it?” Grant asked, as Remus returned to the living room. Grant was straightening out the mess Remus had left. Remus flicked his wand triumphantly, and the room re-ordered itself. Grant made a noise of surprise and delight. “Clever clogs.” He grinned.
“找到了吗？”Grant 问道，雷穆斯回到客厅时。Grant 正在整理雷穆斯留下的混乱。雷穆斯得意地挥了挥魔杖，房间恢复了原样。Grant 发出惊讶和欣喜的声音。“聪明的家伙。”他笑道。

Remus poked his tongue out, and went to organise his pile of papers.
雷穆斯吐了吐舌头，然后去整理一堆文件。

“Still don’t see why you need your wand - does it speed things up, or something?”
“还是看不出你为什么需要魔杖——它能加快速度，还是怎么的？”

“No, I need it to read,” Remus replied, sitting down at the little dining table to work.
“不，我需要它来读书，”雷穆斯回答道，坐到小餐桌旁开始工作。

“Eh?”
“嗯？”

“I have this spell that helps me read,” Remus said, “I never learnt how to do it properly at St Edmund’s.”
“我有一个能帮助我阅读的咒语，”雷穆斯说，“我在圣埃德蒙德学校时没学会怎么正确使用它。”

“You can’t read ?!” Grant hand his hands on his hips, staring at Remus in disbelief.
“你不能读书？！”Grant 把手放在腰上，难以置信地盯着雷穆斯。

“Well, I can a bit …” Remus said, feeling defensive, “Just not very well - the words get all jumbled up, I dunno why.”
“嗯，我能读一点……”雷穆斯感到有些防御，“只是不好——字总是混在一起，我也不知道为什么。”

“Oh!” Grant said, sitting down next to him. “You’re dyslexic.”
“哦！”Grant 说，坐到他旁边。“你有阅读障碍。”

“I’m what?” Remus frowned at him. He’d never heard that world before; it sounded like a spell.
“我是什么？”雷穆斯皱眉看着他。他从未听过这个词；听起来像个咒语。

“Dyslexic. They used to call it word-blind. Nothing wrong with your IQ, it’s the connection between your eyes and your brain or something… I read some about it when I was studying Education. Trying to get them to acknowledge it at work, I reckon a few of the boys need extra help, but the governor just reckons they’re thick.”
“阅读障碍。他们以前叫它‘词盲’。你的智商没问题，是你眼睛和大脑之间的连接或其他什么问题……我在学教育的时候读过一些。试图让他们在工作中承认这一点，我觉得有些男孩需要额外的帮助，但校长认为他们只是笨。”

“Yeah, that’s what they told me.” Remus frowned. “...wait, so it’s a real thing?!”
“是的，这就是他们告诉我的。”雷穆斯皱眉。“……等一下，所以这是真的？！”

“Of course it is,” Grant shrugged. “Bloody amazing you’ve got a spell for it, show me!”
“当然是真的，”Grant 摆了摆肩膀。“真厉害你有个咒语来解决这个，给我看看！”

Remus did, but of course there wasn’t very much to see, and he couldn’t do it on Grant. He made a mental note to look up dyslexia when he had some free time - if he could figure out how on earth to spell the stupid word.
雷穆斯演示了，但当然没什么好看的，而且他不能对 Grant 使用。他在心里记下了要在有空的时候查一下阅读障碍——如果他能搞清楚怎么拼写这个愚蠢的词的话。

“I’ll leave you to finish then,” Grant said, “Remember our plans tonight!”
“那我就留下来让你完成吧，”Grant 说，“记得我们今晚的计划！”

“Oh… yeah…” Remus sighed. “Well, if I finish in time, maybe…”
“哦……对……”雷穆斯叹了口气。“嗯，如果我能及时完成的话，也许……”

“Nope,” Grant shook his head firmly, “We’re going, Remus Lupin. I’m dragging you into the nineties kicking and screaming if I have to.”
“不，”Grant 坚定地摇了摇头，“我们要去，雷穆斯·卢平。如果需要的话，我会把你拖到九十年代，让你踢脚尖尖尖。”

Remus laughed half-heartedly, trying to ignore the gnawing dread in the pit of his stomach.
雷穆斯半心半意地笑了笑，试图忽略心底的那份焦虑。

It was his thirty-first birthday tomorrow, and Grant had decided that this was the year Remus would finally go to his first gay bar. As March approached Remus just wanted to hide until the day was over, like always. Birthdays always reminded him of the marauders.
明天是他的三十一岁生日，Grant 决定今年雷穆斯终于要去他的第一个同性恋酒吧。随着三月的临近，雷穆斯只想躲起来直到那天结束，就像往常一样。生日总是让他想起“掠夺者”。

“You ought to get out a bit,” Grant kept saying, “Meet some people.”
“你应该出去走走，”Grant 一直说，“认识一些人。”

“I hate people.” Remus would reply acidly, “People voted for Thatcher and keep buying Morrissey’s records. People are idiots.”
“我讨厌人。”雷穆斯尖酸地回答，“人们投票给撒切尔，还一直买莫里西的唱片。人们都是傻瓜。”

Grant laughed,
Grant 笑了，

“People are great. Art, sex, coffee, conversation - can’t have any of those without people. People are what makes it all worthwhile and you know it.”
“人们很棒。艺术、性爱、咖啡、谈话——没有人就没有这些。人们让一切变得值得，你知道的。”

He was right - Grant was generally right about humanity.
他说得对——Grant 通常对人性是正确的。

And the world had certainly changed. Remus had missed out, as usual, immersed in the war, or locked up in his own grief. Grant returned to him from the outside world like an explorer with fantastical stories to tell.
世界确实发生了变化。雷穆斯一如既往地错过了，沉浸在战争中，或是锁在自己的悲伤里。Grant 从外面的世界回来像个探险家，带着奇幻的故事。

Things were different now, for people like them - queers, or, more appropriately these days; ‘gay men’. Just over two decades ago it had been a crime to live the way they did - and there had been plenty of bumps in the road since then, but you couldn’t stop progress.
现在，对像他们这样的人——变性者，或者更准确地说是如今的“同性恋者”——情况有所不同。二十多年前，生活在他们这样的人身上曾是一种罪行——从那时起有很多坎坷，但你无法阻止进步。

As the eighties drew to a close, it seemed gay people were everywhere; Grant made London sound like one massive coming out party. He told Remus about once seeing Freddie Mercury in Heaven, the Pet Shop Boys playing on the radio, Frankie Goes to Hollywood was number one again, Boy George’s makeup - even Elton John was gay now.
随着八十年代的结束，似乎同性恋者无处不在；Grant 让伦敦听起来像一个大型的出柜派对。他告诉雷穆斯曾经在天堂见过弗雷迪·默丘里，电台播放着宠物店男孩，Frankie Goes to Hollywood 再次排名第一，Boy George 的化妆——甚至艾尔顿·约翰现在也同性恋了。

So, Remus thought, it was probably time he at least try to get involved.
所以，雷穆斯想着，也许是时候至少尝试参与其中了。

They went to a small bar, just around the corner, “I don’t think you’re ready for Heaven, yet,” Grant teased him.
他们去了一个小酒吧，就在拐角处，“我觉得你还没准备好去天堂，”Grant 逗他说。

Remus wished he wouldn’t make fun. He was more nervous than he expected to be.
雷穆斯希望他不要开玩笑。他比预期的更紧张。

“I won’t fit in…” He said, checking his face in the little mirror by their front door. He was looking old. Thirty-one. Jesus Christ, only yesterday he’d been seventeen.
“我融不进去……”他说，检查着前门旁的小镜子里的脸。他看起来很老。三十一岁。天哪，昨天他才十七岁。

“It’s a gay bar.” Grant tutted, standing behind him with an amused expression. “You’re gay. You’ll fit in.”
“这是一个同性恋酒吧。”Grant 嘟囔着，站在他身后露出 amused 的表情。“你是同性恋。你会融入的。”

“I dunno if I’m that kind of gay, though…” Remus replied, touselling his greying hair to see if that improved anything. Not really, just made him look a bit scruffier. “Won’t they all be… I dunno, younger, more fun?”
“我不知道我是否属于那种同性恋……”雷穆斯回答道，搔搔自己渐渐变灰的头发，看是否会有所改善。其实没什么帮助，只是让他看起来更邋遢了一点。“他们不会都……我不知道，更年轻，更有趣？”

“You’re loads of fun.” Grant said. Remus met his eyes in the mirror and raised an eyebrow. Grant snickered, “Well, I think you’re fun. I’m not gonna make you dance, don’t worry.”
“你很有趣。”Grant 说。雷穆斯在镜子里对上他的眼睛，扬起一只眉毛。Grant 窃笑道：“嗯，我觉得你很有趣。我不会让你跳舞的，别担心。”

“Let’s stay in and get a Chinese!” Remus pleaded, one last time.
“我们还是待在家里点个中国菜吧！”雷穆斯最后一次恳求道。

“No,” Grant shook his head, smiling, “You promised me. One hour minimum, come on.”
“不，”Grant 摇了摇头，笑着说，“你答应过我的。至少一个小时，快点。”

So he went. Maybe he was getting soft in his old age.
所以他去了。也许他在年老时变得软弱了。

Remus was right - the crowd in the little bar was younger and more fun. There were a few people older than him, though, which made him feel a bit less out of place, and at least all the coloured lights hid his grey hair.
雷穆斯没错——小酒吧里的客人更年轻，更有趣。不过也有几个人比他年长，这让他觉得不那么格格不入，至少五光十色的灯光掩盖了他的白发。

When Remus was a little boy at St Edmund’s, the one TV show everyone had agreed on wanting to watch was Top of the Pops on Friday evenings. They’d gathered around the tiny fuzzy black and white screen, and through the blizzard of static watched the trendy young people dancing along to their favourite pop songs. The St Edmund’s lads were particular fans of Babs Lord, the bouncy blonde lead dancer of Pan’s People, Top of the Pops’ in-house dance troupe.
当雷穆斯还是圣埃德蒙德学校的小男孩时，大家都一致同意要看的电视节目是周五晚上的《Top of the Pops》。他们围坐在那台微小的模糊黑白屏幕前，通过噪声的雪花屏幕观看时髦的年轻人跟着他们最喜欢的流行歌曲跳舞。圣埃德蒙德的男孩们特别喜欢 Babs Lord，她是 Pan’s People 的弹跳金发主舞者，《Top of the Pops》的驻场舞团。

That studio had looked like the coolest place on earth to eight year old Remus, and he was instantly reminded of it as he followed Grant into ‘Boyz’. Except that devotees of busty Babs would have been very disappointed, because the clientele in here was decidedly male.
对八岁的雷穆斯来说，那间录音室看起来是地球上最酷的地方，当他跟随 Grant 进入‘Boyz’时，立刻想起了它。只是崇拜丰满 Babs 的人会非常失望，因为这里的顾客明显都是男性。

“Oh my god,” Remus thought to himself, as he walked through the busy dance floor to the bar, “are they all gay?! Do they all know I’m gay?! Oh my god…”
“哦我的天，”雷穆斯在忙碌的舞池中穿过，走向酒吧时对自己说，“他们全都同性恋吗？！他们都知道我同性恋吗？！哦我的天……”

“Do you wanna calm down there, sunshine?” Grant gave him a look as they took up two barstools near the light-up dancefloor.
“你想冷静一下吗，阳光？”Grant 看了他一眼，他们在闪光的舞池旁找了两个吧台椅子坐下。

“I’m fine!” Remus said, his voice maybe a bit too high.
“我没事！”雷穆斯说，他的声音也许有点太高了。

“Stop staring, you weirdo! I’ll get you a drink.”
“别瞪眼，你这个怪人！我去给你拿饮料。”

But Remus couldn’t help staring. Everyone was just so brazen, tight jeans, tight shirts - or no shirts at all, in some cases. They were dancing together, and laughing, and kissing, and it was all just fine - no one was saying anything about it. Remus’s head was spinning.
但雷穆斯忍不住盯着看。每个人都如此大胆，紧身牛仔裤，紧身衬衫——或者根本没有衬衫，偶尔如此。他们在一起跳舞，笑着，亲吻，一切都很自然——没有人对此说什么。雷穆斯的头脑一片混乱。

Grant handed Remus a drink - a cherry cola, because he still wasn’t supposed to be drinking. Remus sipped it, and tried not to look as out of place as he felt. He didn’t know any of the music, either, it was all too modern for him. God, he was old.
Grant 给雷穆斯递了一杯饮料——樱桃可乐，因为他还是不应该喝酒。雷穆斯抿了一口，试图让自己看起来不那么格格不入。他也不认识任何音乐，这对他来说都太现代了。天哪，他真的老了。

“I don’t know why you said I didn’t have to dance,” he said to Grant, “Seems like that’s the only thing to do.”
“我不知道你为什么说我不需要跳舞，”他说对 Grant，“看来这似乎是唯一要做的事。”

“You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to,” Grant smiled, “Relax! That’s the whole point of being here!”
“你不需要做你不想做的任何事，”Grant 微笑道，“放松！这就是来这里的意义！”

Remus tried. He was glad it was not a busy night, he didn’t think he'd be able to cope with a crowd. He sat on his stool and sipped his coke, and looked around without staring, and eventually it felt a bit less scary. He felt a bit twitchy when a drag queen sidled up to him - six foot ten in pink PVC platform boots and a Dolly Parton wig, but she fluttered her massive eyelashes at him and held out a cigarette,
雷穆斯尝试了。他很高兴今晚上没有那么热闹，他觉得自己无法应对人群。他坐在凳子上，抿着可乐，环顾四周而不盯着看，最终感觉稍微不那么可怕。当一个变装皇后向他走来时，他有点紧张——身高六英尺十寸，穿着粉色 PVC 高跟靴和 Dolly Parton 的假发，她向他眨了眨大大的睫毛，递出一根香烟，

“Got a light, handsome?”
“有火吗，帅哥？”

Remus felt his cheeks burning, and shook his head shyly, “Sorry,” he mumbled, “Don’t smoke.”
雷穆斯感到脸颊发热，羞怯地摇了摇头，“抱歉，”他咕哝道，“不抽烟。”

“Oi, do your trick though,” Grant elbowed him. He addressed the drag queen, “Remus ‘ere does this ‘mazing magic trick.”
“喂，做你的魔术吧，”Grant 用肘碰了碰他。他对变装皇后说道，“雷穆斯这儿有个很棒的魔术。”

“Well I love a bit of magic,” the glamorous stranger purred. Remus bit his lip, but nodded,
“哦，我喜欢一点魔法，”那位迷人的陌生人轻声说道。雷穆斯咬了咬嘴唇，但还是点了点头，

“Ok, um…” he took the cigarette and put it between his own lips, then snapped his fingers. The end lit at once, and Remus took a quick drag, for his troubles, before handing it back.
“好吧，呃……”他拿过香烟，把它放在自己嘴唇之间，然后打了个响指。香烟的末端立刻点燃，雷穆斯迅速吸了一口，然后把香烟递了回去。

“Blimey!” The drag queen blinked, staring at the lit fag, “Amazing is right! Better watch out for you, eh, magic man?”
“哇！”变装皇后眨了眨眼睛，盯着点燃的香烟，“确实很惊人！还是要小心你啊，魔术师？”

Remus blushed again, looking down at his coke, “Just a sleight of hand.”
雷穆斯再次脸红，低头看着自己的可乐，“只是手法。”

“Come here often, then?” She leaned against the bar, smoking, her blood red lipstick staining the fag end.
“你常来这儿吗？”她靠在吧台上抽烟，血红色的口红染上了香烟的末端。

“Oh, no!” Remus said, maybe a bit too quickly.
“哦，不！”雷穆斯说，可能有点太快了。

Grant laughed and put a hand on his shoulder, “It’s his first time. Brought him for his birthday.”
Grant 笑了，拍了拍他的肩膀，“这是他第一次来。我带他来庆祝生日。”

“Oh, happy birthday!” She smiled broadly, “We’ll have to play you a song, later - just go and tell the DJ, ok sweetie?”
“哦，生日快乐！”她大大地笑道，“稍后我们会为你放一首歌——去告诉 DJ，一切都好，亲爱的？”

“Er, ok.” Remus nodded, planning to do no such thing.
“呃，好。”雷穆斯点了点头，计划根本不打算这么做。

“See you later, boys,” the drag queen winked and sailed away across the dancefloor.
“稍后见，孩子们，”变装皇后眨了眨眼，优雅地走过舞池。

“Wasn’t so bad, was it?” Grant said. “You’ll be ready to march with me in the pride parade by July.”
“还不错，不是吗？”Grant 说。“到七月你就准备好跟我一起参加骄傲游行了。”

“I don’t know about that…” Remus laughed.
“我不太确定……”雷穆斯笑了。

He gazed at the dancefloor a bit longer. The drag queen had treated him as if he’d belonged. Rather than feeling more self conscious, he actually felt a bit happier - everyone was nice enough, no one was being nasty, or rude. He watched a couple kissing in the middle of the floor - they were really going for it, groping each other’s backsides - and people were actually cheering.
他多看了一会儿舞池。变装皇后对他的态度就像他属于这里一样。与其说他感到更加自觉，他实际上感到更快乐了——每个人都很友善，没有人恶意或者无礼。他看着舞池中间的一对情侣亲吻——他们真的很投入，互相抚摸——人们甚至在欢呼。

He remembered his friends cheering when Mary and Sirius kissed in the Gryffindor common room, all those years ago - that had been Remus’s birthday, too, and the date of Remus and Sirius’s first kiss, which had happened in shadows. Almost all of their kisses had been hidden away, because deep down they both knew that no one wanted to see that. Not in the seventies, not at Hogwarts.
他记得多年前，当玛丽和天狼星在格兰芬多的公共休息室亲吻时，他的朋友们也在欢呼——那也是雷穆斯的生日，还是雷穆斯和天狼星第一次亲吻的日期，那个亲吻发生在阴影中。他们几乎所有的亲吻都被隐藏起来，因为他们心里都知道没有人想看到那个。在七十年代，不在霍格沃茨。

Remus had a sudden urge to do something similar, here, in plain view, where everyone could see and nobody would frown or jeer.
雷穆斯突然有了在这里做类似事情的冲动，在明目张胆的地方，让每个人都能看到，没有人会皱眉或者嘲笑。

Only he wasn’t quite brave enough for public snogging just yet, even at the grand old age of (almost) thirty-one. So he just reached over and held Grant’s hand, on top of the bar. Grant blinked in surprise, but then his face lit up so gorgeously that any last trace of nerves left Remus completely. He sometimes forgot that Grant had feelings too, which sounded heartless, but it was only because Grant so rarely complained. Happiness looked so good on him that Remus made a resolution to work harder on it.
只是他还没有足够勇敢在公开场合亲吻，即使在将近三十一岁的年纪。所以他只是伸手抓住了 Grant 的手，放在吧台上。Grant 震惊地眨了眨眼，但随后他的脸上露出了如此美丽的笑容，雷穆斯最后一点紧张完全消失了。他有时忘记了 Grant 也有感情，这听起来无情，但只是因为 Grant 很少抱怨。幸福在他身上看起来如此美好，雷穆斯下定决心要更加努力去追求它。

They hung around a bit longer, until Remus had finished his drink. He had no desire to dance (though more than one person had approached, inviting him to join them) but the experience hadn’t been dreadful. He said as much to Grant, who laughed,
他们待了更久一点，直到雷穆斯喝完了他的饮料。他并不想跳舞（虽然有很多人走过来邀请他加入他们），但这次经历并没有那么糟糕。他对 Grant 说道，Grant 笑了，

“Told you so! Thanks for coming, darling, I know it’s not easy.”
“告诉过你吧！谢谢你来，亲爱的，我知道这不容易。”

“You make it easier,” Remus said, softly - surprising himself. Grant looked taken aback, and squeezed Remus’s hand again,
“是你让它变得更容易，”雷穆斯柔声说道——让自己感到惊讶。Grant 看起来很吃惊，又握了握雷穆斯的手，

“Bloody charmer,” he said, bashfully. “Come on, I’ve got a chocolate cake waiting in the fridge at home, you can blow out the candles and we’ll kiss in the dark.”
“该死的魅力者，”他害羞地说道。“走吧，我家冰箱里有一块巧克力蛋糕等着你，你可以吹灭蜡烛，我们在黑暗中亲吻。”

Remus grinned back, “Sounds perfect.”
雷穆斯笑着回应，“听起来很完美。”

He nipped to the loo before leaving. He could have waited until he got home, they were only around the corner, but he felt that this was his last test of bravery.
他在离开前去了一趟洗手间。他本可以等到回家再去的，他们就在拐角处，但他觉得这是他最后一次勇气测试。

The toilets were unisex, which Remus supposed was fair enough, if a bit embarrassing - there weren’t any girls about at least. He went and used a urinal, as quickly as possible, trying to ignore the sound and scent of sex emanating from the cubicles. He was just washing his hands when the door swung open, and somebody closed in behind him. He spun around, surprised, and faced the stranger.
洗手间是中性的，雷穆斯认为这还算公平，尽管有点尴尬——至少没有女孩。他迅速地去使用小便池，试图忽视从隔间里传来的声音和气味。他刚洗手时，门猛地打开了，有人靠近了他。他转过身，惊讶地面对着陌生人。

“What--”
“什么——”

The man grinned wide, showing his teeth. He licked his lips and sniffed the air, and then it hit Remus - the familiar scent, the instant connection - the lack of respect for personal space. A werewolf.
那人咧开嘴笑，露出牙齿。他舔了舔嘴唇，嗅了嗅空气，然后雷穆斯感到——那熟悉的气味，瞬间的联系——对个人空间的无视。一个狼人。

“I smelled your magic,” the man said, his voice low, “Delicious. Haven't seen you before…”
“我闻到了你的魔法，”那人低声说道，“美味。以前没见过你……”

He wasn't as tall as Remus, and he was quite thin, in a skin tight white shirt. He had long flame red hair, straight as a poker, and glacier blue eyes. The scent of earthy natural magic radiated off him in waves that made Remus giddy, blood rushing through his veins and arteries like an elixir.
他没有雷穆斯高，身材也很瘦，穿着一件紧身白衬衫。他有着长长的火焰红发，直得像个铁棍，和冰川蓝色的眼睛。那股自然魔法的气味以波浪般的形式从他身上散发出来，让雷穆斯感到头晕目眩，血液在他的血管中奔流如同灵药。

“Hi…”
“你好……”

The stranger sniffed again, “Which pack are you? You smell like Greyback…”
那人再次嗅了嗅，“你属于哪个狼群？你闻起来像 Greyback……”

Remus balked a bit at the idea he had anything of Greyback in him, but he shook his head, “No pack.”
雷穆斯对自己身上有任何 Greyback 的东西感到有些厌恶，但他摇了摇头，“没有狼群。”

“Brave of you… Not worried you’ll get rounded up by the Ministry?”
“真勇敢……不担心你会被魔法部抓起来吗？”

“What about you? Who are you with?” For a moment Remus hoped he was one of Castor’s - he desperately wanted to know how they were all doing, but the stranger just shrugged.
“那你呢？你和谁在一起？”雷穆斯希望他是 Castor 的一员——他迫切想知道他们的近况，但那人只是耸了耸肩。

“Oh, we drift here and there. You won’t have heard of us.”
“哦，我们在这里那里漂流。你不会听说过我们。”

“But you know Greyback.”
“但你知道 Greyback。”

“Oh yes.” He pulled his shirt down at the collar, revealing an enormous bite mark which was all too familiar to Remus, “We go back a long way, he and I…”
“哦，是的。”他拉了拉领口，露出一个雷穆斯再熟悉不过的巨大咬痕，“他和我认识很久了……”

“The war, were you--”
“战争，你是——”

“Ha, I was barely a pup, back then,” the werewolf raised an eyebrow. His skin was so fair that his scars were like streaks of silver, pearlescent as moonbeams. “But the next war… the next war, we shall be ready for.”
“哈哈，我那时还只是个小狼崽，”狼人扬起一只眉毛。他的皮肤非常白皙，伤疤像银色的条纹，像月光一样闪烁。“但下一次战争……下一次战争，我们会准备好的。”

“There won’t be another war.” Remus said. He was backed against the porcelain sink, the werewolf had placed a hand either side of him. He was trapped, but he’d made no move to escape, not yet. “Voldemort’s dead.”
“不会有下一次战争。”雷穆斯说道。他背靠在瓷盆上，狼人双手放在他身旁。他被困住了，但他还没有动身逃脱。“伏地魔死了。”

“Mmm, some say…” the werewolf smirked. He leaned in and licked behind Remus’s earlobe. It made him shudder all over, he had to hold in a whimper. The other man pressed in on him, and whispered, “But I have heard that part of him lives still. The forests speak of ancient magic, of cursed blood… the dark lord gathers his strength…”
“嗯，有些人这么说……”狼人冷笑。他靠近，舔了舔雷穆斯耳垂的后面。这让雷穆斯全身颤抖，他不得不抑制住呻吟。那个男人靠近他，低声说道：“但我听说他的一部分仍然存在。森林里传说着古老的魔法，诅咒的血液……黑暗领主在聚集力量……”

“No…” Remus shook his head. He tried to push back, but only succeeded in grinding their bodies together. He knew it was all lies, and he knew this man was trouble, but oh god, the scent was so heady, his body wouldn’t listen to him; it only wanted one thing.
“不……”雷穆斯摇了摇头。他试图推开，但只成功地让他们的身体紧贴在一起。他知道这全是谎言，他知道这个人是麻烦，但天啊，那气味如此醉人，他的身体不听使唤，只想要一个东西。

“Come,” the werewolf kept whispering, his breath hot on Remus's neck, “No more talk of war, it’s not our concern just yet… I want to enjoy you. Do you live nearby? We can go anywhere you like - this is going to be so good, the moon’s waxing…”
“过来，”狼人不断低语，他的呼吸在雷穆斯的脖子上热热的，“别再谈战争了，这还不是我们的事……我想享受你。你住得近吗？我们可以去你喜欢的地方——这会很棒，月亮在渐盈……”

Remus shook his head again, as if he could rid himself of the fog of pheromones flooding his system, “I'm here with someone.” He rasped.
雷穆斯再次摇头，好像能将那充斥在他体内的荷尔蒙雾气驱散，“我和别人一起来的。”他嘶哑地说道。

“Bring them, if you like…” the wolf chuckled, “I’m all for sharing.”
“如果你愿意，可以带他们来……”狼人笑了，“我乐于分享。”

“N-no, I have to go…” Remus used his last shred of willpower to extricate himself from the stranger and hurry back into the bar, feeling the wolf's eyes blazing at his back.
“不，我必须走……”雷穆斯用尽最后一点意志力摆脱那个陌生人，急忙回到酒吧，感受到狼人的目光在背后炽热地盯着他。

He found Grant and grabbed his shirt sleeve, hissing, “We have to go home.”
他找到 Grant，抓住他的衬衫袖子，低声说道：“我们必须回家。”

“Eh? You all right, something happen?”
“嗯？你还好吗，发生了什么事？”

“No… um… I just want to go home. I want to take you home.” He met Grant's eyes, still holding his arm, and he wondered if Grant could feel it too, feel the burning, the need. Sirius always could, but perhaps you had to be sensitive to magic? Remus focussed the intensity, projecting it outwards. Grant's eyes flickered and his pupils dilated, a warm blush creeping up his neck.
“没有……嗯……我只想回家。我想带你回家。”他看着 Grant 的眼睛，仍然抓着他的手臂，他想知道 Grant 是否也能感受到那种炽热和需求。Sirius 总是能，但也许你必须对魔法敏感？雷穆斯集中注意力，向外投射那种强度。Grant 的眼睛闪烁，他的瞳孔放大，脖子上爬上了温暖的红晕。

“All right, then.” He knocked back the last of his drink, and they left, running out onto the busy street together, hand in hand.
“好吧。”他一口气喝完了最后一口饮料，他们离开了，一起跑到繁忙的街道上，手牵着手。

 

Chapter 183: Summer 1993I stumbled out of bed

I got ready for the struggle.

I smoked a cigarette

And I tightened up my gut

I said this can't be me; must be my double

And I can't forget (I can't forget)

I can't forget but I don't remember what.

 

7th August 1993

 

 

Chapter 184: Summer 1994 

If you, if you could return

Don't let it burn

Don't let it fade

I'm sure I'm not being rude,

But it's just your attitude

It's tearing me apart

It's ruining every day

 

I swore I would be true

And fellow, so did you...

 

Were you lying all the time?

Was it just a game to you?

 

 

August 1994

For the first week or so after Remus returned from Hogwarts, he didn’t know how to feel. For the first time in a very long time, Remus was lost; untethered, drifting. He wandered around the flat like a ghost, going through the movements of everyday life, but feeling nothing.
在雷穆斯从霍格沃茨回来后的前一两周，他不知道自己该如何感受。很久以来，雷穆斯第一次感到迷茫；没有束缚，漂浮不定。他像鬼魂一样在公寓里徘徊，做着日常生活的动作，却什么也感觉不到。

It wasn’t depression. He knew what depression felt like.
这不是抑郁。他知道抑郁是什么感觉。

“It’s shock,” said Grant.
“这是震惊，” Grant 说。

“Oh.” said Remus, staring blankly at the TV.
“哦。”雷穆斯说道，呆呆地盯着电视。

Obviously he’d expected Hogwarts to stir up old memories. He’d known from the start that re-visiting the place could easily ruin him, but he'd done it anyway. Maybe he was a masochist. Maybe just stupid.
显然，他预期霍格沃茨会唤起旧日的记忆。他从一开始就知道重访这个地方很可能会毁了他，但他还是去了。也许他是个受虐狂，也许只是愚蠢。

The castle was filled with ghosts from Remus’s past, which was a deeply unsettling experience after spending the better part of a decade trying to forget all of it. The moment he arrived at King’s Cross it all came flooding back - the pokey little train carriages with the worn-out upholstery; the trolley witch, chocolate frogs, the bustle and noise of students embarking on a new term. With the full moon ahead of him, he’d squirrelled away in a compartment and promptly fallen asleep.
城堡里充满了雷穆斯过去的幽灵，这是一种令人极为不安的经历，因为他花了大部分十年时间试图忘记这些。一到国王十字车站，一切都涌上心头——那些破旧的火车车厢；推车女巫、巧克力蛙、学生们开始新学期的喧嚣和噪音。在满月的映衬下，他在一个车厢里藏了起来，很快就睡着了。

Until the carriage turned cold, and the dementors...
直到车厢变冷，出现了摄魂怪……

No. Anyway; ghosts. McGonagall was perhaps the strangest. She must have known he would be coming, but their first meeting had hit Remus harder than expected, and she’d seemed just as surprised as him. They weren’t quite sure how to relate to each other, now.
不。总之；幽灵。麦格教授也许是最奇怪的。她一定知道他会来的，但他们的第一次见面比预期的更打击了雷穆斯，她似乎也和他一样惊讶。他们现在不太确定如何相处。

“Mr Lupin! Oh - I’m sorry, Professor Lupin.”
“卢平先生！哦——对不起，卢平教授。”

“Hello Prof-- I mean… er…”
“您好，教授——我意思是……呃……”

“Minerva, please,” she smiled gracefully.
“麦格，请，”她优雅地微笑。

She reached out and squeezed his arm. She was every bit as formidable as she had been twenty years ago, only a little greyer at the temples. But then, so was he. “It’s wonderful to see you, Remus.” She said, earnestly.
她伸出手握住他的手臂。她依旧像二十年前一样威严，只是太阳穴有些灰白。不过，他也是如此。“看到你真是太好了，雷穆斯。”她真诚地说道。

“It’s good to be back,” he lied.
“回到这里很好，”他撒了谎。

Her eyes were soft and kind, as if she could see right through him.
她的眼睛柔和而亲切，好像能看透他一样。

“My office is always open, if you need anything. As ever.”
“我的办公室随时为你开放，如果你需要什么。像往常一样。”

He appreciated the gesture, but didn’t prevail upon her very often, largely because he wanted to keep to himself. He also wanted to stay away from Gryffindor tower, if he could.
他感激这个表示，但他并不常去找她，主要是因为他想保持独处。如果可以的话，他也想远离格兰芬多塔楼。

The rest of the school was familiar; the lush expansive grounds, the secretive forest, the food, the portraits, the staircases he had mapped so carefully. But Gryffindor Tower - the most intimate and happy space of his adolescence; that would be almost too much to recover from. He was put in mind of Homer, once again - the word ‘nostalgia’, which meant a painful homecoming. That was exactly how it felt.
学校的其他部分很熟悉；那片郁郁葱葱的广阔土地，神秘的森林，食物，画像，那些他曾经仔细绘制过的楼梯。但是格兰芬多塔楼——他青春时期最亲密和幸福的地方；那几乎让他难以恢复。他再次想起了荷马——“怀旧”这个词，意味着痛苦的归乡。这正是他的感受。

He didn’t socialise much with his peers. The staff knew, by and large, about his lycanthropy, but he still prefered to avoid any unpleasant conversations, if he could. Were they tutting, behind his back? Were they wondering about him? No one’s seen him for years, he was Black and Potter’s closest friend - what does he know? What did he do?
他很少和同龄人交往。工作人员大致知道他的狼人症，但他仍然更愿意避免任何不愉快的谈话，如果可能的话。他们背后是否在嘲讽？他们是否在猜测他？没人见过他很多年，他是布莱克和波特最亲密的朋友——他知道什么？他做了什么？

Funnily enough, Professor Binns had forgotten Remus, but at least Flitwick hadn’t. He was very kind, inviting Remus him to stop by the Charms classroom for tea and toast a few times. Remus did, to be polite, but found it difficult to forget all the times he and Sirius had locked themselves inside the kindly professor’s classroom. He generally found it very hard to reconcile his adult self, responsible for lesson plans and marking essays and the welfare of students - with his reckless teenage self, wild and arrogant and madly in love.
有趣的是，宾斯教授忘记了雷穆斯，但至少弗里维克教授没有。他非常友善，邀请雷穆斯到魔咒教室喝茶吃吐司几次。雷穆斯出于礼貌去了，但发现很难忘记他和小天狼星曾几次把自己锁在这位和蔼教授的教室里。他通常很难将自己作为成年人——负责课程计划、批改论文和学生福利——与他那个鲁莽的青少年自己——狂野、傲慢、疯狂地恋爱——和解。

There were entire wings of the castle he actively avoided, for this very reason. He barely left his classroom and chambers except for meals in the Great Hall, and he never went to Hogsmeade, except to quickly pass through on the way to the old phone box just outside the village. And thank god that was still there.
由于这个原因，他主动避开了城堡的整个翼楼。他几乎不离开教室和宿舍，除了在大礼堂用餐外，他从不去霍格斯梅德，除了在经过村子外面的旧电话亭时匆匆经过。谢天谢地，那还在那儿。

“How is it?” Grant asked, the first time Remus called.
“怎么样？” Grant 问道，雷穆斯第一次打电话时。

“Awful. Bearable. I s’pose like teaching, the kids are ok. Actually the kids are great.”
“糟糕。可以忍受。我想就像教学一样，孩子们还不错。实际上，孩子们很好。”

“Well. Just focus on that. First time I went into a remand home after St Edmund’s I thought I was gonna have to quit. I swear those places all smell the same. Anyway, you can get past it, if you remember it's about the kids, not you. Be the teacher you wish you’d had.”
“嗯。只要专注于这一点就好。第一次去 St Edmund’s 后的拘留所时，我以为我要辞职了。我发誓那些地方都闻起来一样。无论如何，你可以克服它，只要记住这是关于孩子们，而不是你。成为你希望自己曾经有的老师。”

This was good advice, and Remus did his very best. He hadn’t had much experience with young people, but he very clearly remembered being a young person himself. He tried to organise lessons he would have found interesting, bringing in magical creatures whenever he could, like Ferox had, and giving extra tips and pointers wherever students were struggling. Really it wasn’t too different from the study sessions he’d held back when he was at school.
这是很好的建议，雷穆斯尽了最大的努力。他对年轻人没有太多经验，但他清楚地记得自己曾经年轻过。他试图组织他自己会觉得有趣的课程，尽可能地带来魔法生物，就像 Ferox 所做的，并在学生遇到困难时提供额外的建议和提示。实际上，这与他在学校时举办的学习小组没有太大区别。

Equally, Remus tried to pay attention to all of his students, and learn their characters, their individual needs. That was incredibly weird at first - he found he had no less than five Weasleys to teach, one in almost every year. Then there was poor little Neville Longbottom, awkward and nervous and twitchy. Narcissa’s son was in another class, the spitting image of Lucius, and then, of course, there was…
同样，雷穆斯尝试关注所有的学生，了解他们的性格和个人需求。一开始这非常奇怪——他发现自己要教不下于五个韦斯莱，几乎每年都有一个。然后是可怜的小奈威·隆巴顿，笨拙、紧张和焦躁。纳西莎的儿子在另一个班级里，简直就是卢修斯的翻版，然后，当然，还有……

Anyway. Aside from Flitwick and McGonagall, the rest of the staff were virtual strangers to Remus - except, of course, for the Potions master.
总之。除了弗里维克和麦格教授之外，其他教职员工对雷穆斯来说几乎都是陌生人——当然，除了药剂学教授。

Remus had really wanted to stay out of Snape’s way, but from the very first day it was clear that would not be easy. It was a full moon, and of course Snape was the only one who knew how to brew Wolfsbane Potion, the prick. He probably learnt how to do it just to torment Remus. It was bad enough they had to share a castle again, but Snape was hellbent on making sure Remus felt his displeasure at the arrangement.
雷穆斯真的想避开斯内普，但从第一天起就显然这不容易。那天是满月，当然斯内普是唯一一个知道如何酿制狼毒药水的混蛋。他可能是为了折磨雷穆斯才学会的。我们再次不得不共享一座城堡已经够糟糕的了，但斯内普却誓言要让雷穆斯感受到他对这种安排的不满。

“Lupin.” He said, haughtily, at their first meeting, just before the welcome feast. “I was surprised to hear you survived the war.” His lips curled, “When it seems so many of your friends did not.”
“卢平。”他在第一次见面时傲慢地说道，就在欢迎宴会前。“我很惊讶你活过了战争。”他的嘴唇翘起，“当许多你的朋友却没有活过来。”

As foul as Snape was, it did bring out something Remus hadn’t properly felt in years. Mischief.
尽管斯内普很恶劣，但这确实激发了雷穆斯多年未曾真正感受的东西。顽皮。

“Severus,” he smiled, warmly, “And I was surprised to hear you survived the trials. When so many of your friends did not.”
“西弗勒斯，”他温暖地微笑，“我也很惊讶你活过了考验。当许多你的朋友却没有。”

Snape sneered, and that set the tone for the year.
斯内普冷笑，这为整年定下了基调。

Severus had clearly not forgotten the events of their fifth year. He was as despicable as Remus remembered him, and had not aged well. His hair still hung lank and greasy, perhaps a little further back than before, his black eyes were more sunken, and his nose more beak-like. He made Remus’s skin crawl, but there was nothing to be done about it; they had to meet privately each month for the potion.
西弗勒斯显然没有忘记他们第五年的事件。他仍然像雷穆斯记忆中的那样卑鄙，且没有变得更好。他的头发仍然油腻地垂着，也许比以前后退了一些，他的黑眼睛更深陷，鼻子更像鸟喙。他让雷穆斯的皮肤发麻，但无可奈何；他们每个月都必须私下见面以便调制药水。

The potion itself was utterly vile, and Remus resented it bitterly. It tasted awful, but worse than that was the effect it had.
药水本身极其恶心，雷穆斯对此感到极度愤恨。它的味道很糟糕，但更糟糕的是它的效果。

He still transformed, still suffered the agonies as his skull elongated and his back split open and his tendons creaked - but he fully retained his human mind afterwards. This was utterly horrible. Remus had come to see the monthly retreat into his animal brain as something of a catharsis. But having an animal body and human thoughts turned out to be very unpleasant indeed; he felt neither here nor there, trapped in the wrong form and unable to escape. He curled up to sleep locked inside his office every month full of self-loathing.
他仍然变形，仍然承受着骨骼延长、背部裂开和肌腱吱嘎作响的痛苦——但之后他完全保留了自己的人的思想。这实在是可怕的。雷穆斯已经将每月的动物脑退隐视为一种宣泄。但拥有一个动物的身体和人的思想证明确实非常不愉快；他感到既不在这里也不在那里，被困在错误的形态中，无法逃脱。他每个月都在充满自我厌恶的办公室里蜷缩着睡觉。

In the mornings after he would limp to Madam Pomfrey’s office to ask for murtlap essence. Of everyone from Remus’s childhood, Madam Pomfrey seemed the most pleased to see him again. She had aged, like everyone else, but had retained her gentle touch, her sweet face and her no-nonsense attitude to Remus’s wellbeing.
早晨过后，他会跛脚地去找庞弗雷夫人的办公室，请求海星精华。在雷穆斯的童年中，庞弗雷夫人似乎是最高兴再次见到他的人。她像其他人一样衰老了，但保留了她温柔的触感、甜美的脸庞和对雷穆斯健康的严肃态度。

“Remus!” She reached up to hug him the very first moment she saw him. “Just look at you, you giant of a man!”
“雷穆斯！”她在看到他的一刻就伸手抱住了他。“瞧你，真是个巨人！”

“Hello, Madam-- er… Poppy.”
“您好，夫人——呃……波比。”

“As polite as ever,” she smiled, “Come on, come and tell me what you’ve been doing with yourself.”
“仍然那么有礼貌，”她微笑着，“来吧，告诉我你最近在做什么。”

They had a few very pleasant catch ups in her office, by the fireplace. She wanted to know everything about his transformations since Hogwarts, and he told her as much as he could. She was very interested to hear about the pack, and how they were able to heal each other by sharing group magic.
他们在她办公室的壁炉旁有几次非常愉快的交谈。她想了解自霍格沃茨以来他变形的所有情况，他尽可能多地告诉了她。她对听到关于狼群的事情非常感兴趣，如何通过共享群体魔法互相治愈。

“I tried to get in touch with you, after the Potters died.” She said, sadly, “But no one could tell me where you were living, and I didn’t dare ask too much in case…”
“在波特夫妇去世后，我试图与你取得联系。”她悲伤地说道，“但没人能告诉我你住在哪里，我也不敢问太多，以免……”

Remus looked away, embarrassed. “I’m sorry.” He said, “I wanted to be left alone.”
雷穆斯转过脸去，感到尴尬。“对不起。”他说，“我想被独自留在一旁。”

“Yes, well you were the same as a boy, stubborn!” she smiled fondly. He smiled back, realising how much he had missed her.
“是的，你小时候也是一样的，固执！”她亲切地微笑。他回以微笑，意识到自己有多么想念她。

For the first month or so, Remus’s nerves were raw, he hesitated as he turned every corner, worried that he might see something painful. But, as pain often does, this lessened over time.
在最初的一个月左右，雷穆斯的神经非常紧绷，他每转过一个角落都会犹豫，担心自己可能会看到痛苦的事物。但正如痛苦常常会逐渐减轻一样，这种感觉随着时间的推移减轻了。

He slipped into a new character - not the teenage Remus who took risks without thinking, who was desperate to prove himself, and not the half muggle, half broken man he had been in London. Somewhere between these warring halves, he became Professor Lupin; restrained and serious, offering encouragement wherever he could.
他逐渐融入了一个新的角色——不是那个不顾一切冒险的少年雷穆斯，不是那个在伦敦时半巫师半破碎的男人。在这两个对立的自我之间，他成为了卢平教授；克制而严肃，尽可能提供鼓励。

And this was all just as well, because that was exactly who he needed to be, for Harry.
这正是最好的，因为他需要成为的正是这样的人，为哈利。

God, Harry.
天哪，哈利。

Harry Potter was James and Lily seamlessly combined; all charm and cheek and strength and goodness. Remus had been worried - knowing that the kid’s childhood had been far from ideal - that Harry would be difficult. Remus well remembered his own spiky temperament at thirteen; cruel adults make bitter children. But no. Harry was as kind-hearted and open minded as his parents - full of love and so, so generous with it. Getting to know him had been painful and joyful all at once.
哈利·波特是詹姆斯和莉莉无缝结合的产物；充满魅力、无畏、力量和善良。雷穆斯曾担心——知道那个孩子的童年远非理想——哈利会很难相处。雷穆斯清楚地记得自己十三岁的脾气；残酷的成年人会让孩子变得苦涩。但不。哈利和他的父母一样，心地善良、开明——充满爱，并且如此慷慨。了解他既痛苦又充满喜悦。

The first time they met, Remus had thought he was still dreaming. He woke up on the train, clawed awake by dementors - those fucking abominations. He cleared the threat, and staring around at the faces of the frightened kids, found Harry, passed out on the floor. Until he opened his eyes he was James; nothing could convince Remus otherwise. A bit skinnier, maybe shorter than Prongs had been at thirteen, but otherwise the spitting image.
他们第一次见面时，雷穆斯曾以为自己还在做梦。他在火车上醒来，被摄魂怪唤醒——那些该死的畸形怪物。他解决了威胁，环顾四周看着那些惊恐的孩子们，发现哈利晕倒在地板上。直到他睁开眼睛，他还是詹姆斯；没有什么能说服雷穆斯这点。也许比詹姆斯在十三岁时更瘦一点，可能也矮一些，但其他方面完全一样。

Of course, Harry had no idea who Remus was, and for as long as possible, it stayed that way. How would he explain? Even after a few conversations with the boy, Remus was completely at sea. So he let Harry lead the way, and answered the questions which had suitable answers. When Harry came to him asking for patronus lessons so that he could keep playing quidditch, Remus couldn’t say no. It was exactly what James would do, too.
当然，哈利不知道雷穆斯是谁，并且尽可能地保持了这种状态。他怎么解释？即使在与这个男孩交谈了几次之后，雷穆斯也完全迷茫了。所以他让哈利主导，回答那些有适当答案的问题。当哈利找他请教护神咒的课程，以便他可以继续打魁地奇时，雷穆斯无法拒绝。这正是詹姆斯会做的事。

And when Sirius came up, he sidestepped it. Harry already knew that Black and James had been friends, and Remus wasn’t sure what more he could say without losing the kid’s trust. “Yes, Harry, your dad was my best friend, but Sirius Black was my everything…”
当提到小天狼星时，他绕开了这个话题。哈利已经知道布莱克和詹姆斯是朋友，而雷穆斯不确定他还能说什么而不会失去孩子的信任。“是的，哈利，你的爸爸是我最好的朋友，但小天狼星·布莱克是我的一切……”

No, it wouldn’t do. What was more, Remus wasn’t sure whether the wizarding world had its own version of Section 28 - if he started confessing to stuff like that, could he get in trouble for corrupting young minds? It was bad enough he was a werewolf.
不，这样不行。而且，雷穆斯也不确定魔法界是否有类似于第28条的规定——如果他开始承认这些事情，会不会因为腐蚀年轻人的思想而惹上麻烦？他已经是狼人了，已经够糟糕了。

By that time it was already clear that Sirius was nearby. When the convict broke into the castle on Halloween night, Remus almost walked straight off the grounds and apparated back to London. Maybe he would have, if the perimeter wasn’t swarming with dementors - and of course the fact that Black was definitely after Harry.
那时已经很明显，小天狼星就在附近。当那个罪犯在万圣节之夜闯入城堡时，雷穆斯差点直接离开校园，瞬间移动回伦敦。如果周边没有被摄魂怪包围的话，也许他会这样做——当然还有布莱克显然是盯上了哈利的事实。

That made Remus furious; hadn’t Sirius done enough damage? He must have really lost his mind, he must have strayed so far from the young man who had cradled baby Harry in his arms with tenderness and awe. Remus used this as a reminder, to steel himself: it was no use mourning Sirius. His Sirius had died many years ago.
这让雷穆斯非常愤怒；小天狼星难道没有造成足够的伤害吗？他一定是彻底疯了，一定已经远离了那个曾经满怀温柔和敬畏地抱着婴儿哈利的年轻人。雷穆斯把这当作一种提醒，来激励自己：悼念小天狼星是没有用的。他的小天狼星已经死了很多年。

And then that night happened. In a matter of hours everything changed...
然后那一夜发生了。一夜之间一切都发生了改变……

 

Fuck.
该死。

Maybe Grant was right, maybe it was shock. After being given his marching orders from Hogwarts (thank god; another year might have killed him), Remus took the Knight Bus back to London, his mind churning over everything he had learnt.
也许格兰特说得对，也许是震惊。在被霍格沃茨解雇后（谢天谢地；再待一年可能会杀了他），雷穆斯乘坐骑士巴士回到伦敦，他的脑海里不断回想着自己学到的一切。

Events kept shifting and re-ordering themselves. Some things became clearer, others muddied by various versions of the truth. The things Sirius had said, the excuses Wormtail had snivelled, and everything Remus had thought he’d known - none of these accounts lined up quite right.
事情不断地变化和重新排列。一些事情变得更清晰了，另一些则被各种版本的真相弄得混乱不堪。小天狼星说的话，咕噜的借口，以及雷穆斯认为自己知道的一切——这些说法都不完全对。

The only thing Remus was certain of, was that for twelve years he had hated the wrong person.
雷穆斯唯一确定的是，十二年来他憎恨的是错的人。

“Please come back,” he wailed down the phone to Grant, once he was home. “Please, please…”
“请回来，”他在家后对格兰特哭诉道，“拜托，拜托……”

“On my way.” Grant said, and hung up immediately.
“马上就来。”格兰特说，然后立即挂断了电话。

It still took hours. Remus changed into his muggle clothes, throwing Professor Lupin’s shabby robes in a corner of the bathroom, and paced the flat while he waited, cursing the slowness of muggle transport. He didn’t drink. He wanted a clear head; he wanted to understand.
这还是花了几个小时。雷穆斯换上了麻瓜的衣服，把卢平教授那件破旧的长袍扔在浴室的一个角落里，来回踱步，诅咒麻瓜交通的缓慢。他没有喝酒。他想要清醒的头脑；他想要理解。

“Remus?!” Grant burst into the living room, tired and dishevelled. He’d had a hair cut in the past year; it was so short it barely curled any more. Remus hated it, but said nothing, just ran to hug him. “What happened?” Grant asked, huffing as Remus knocked the air out of him, but squeezing him back reassuringly.
“雷穆斯？！”格兰特闯入客厅，疲惫不堪。他在过去一年里剪了头发；现在的头发短到几乎没有卷曲。雷穆斯讨厌这个发型，但没有说什么，只是跑去抱他。“发生了什么事？”格兰特问道，喘着气，被雷穆斯抱得没法呼吸，但还是安慰地回抱了他。

He didn’t look the same, but he smelled the same, and that helped; that was very grounding.
他看起来不一样了，但他闻起来一样，这让人感到安慰；这很有安定感。

“He was innocent!” Remus babbled, still clinging on, “It was Peter all along! It was never him! I was such an idiot!”
“他是无辜的！”雷穆斯喋喋不休地说，仍然紧紧抱着，“一直是彼得！从来不是他！我真是个傻瓜！”

“Remus, I don’t know what you’re talking about, please… let’s sit down, shall we? Christ, you’re skinny, don’t they feed you at that school?!”
“雷穆斯，我不知道你在说什么，拜托……我们坐下来谈谈，好吗？天哪，你真瘦，他们在那所学校不喂你吗？！”

Remus allowed Grant to take over. He sat obediently on the couch, accepted a glass of water, and a cigarette, because apparently Grant was smoking again, and the temptation was too much. The flat felt bare and stuffy, having sat empty for most of the year, and Grant opened the living room window, letting in the everyday sounds of foot traffic and pigeons.
雷穆斯让格兰特接管。他乖乖地坐在沙发上，接过一杯水和一支香烟，因为显然格兰特又开始抽烟了，这让他很难抗拒。公寓感觉空荡荡的，闷热不堪，已经空置了大部分时间，格兰特打开了客厅的窗户，让街上的行人声和鸽子的声音进来。

“Ok,” Grant said, sitting opposite Remus, clasping his hands together in a very teacher-ly sort of way, “Let’s start at the beginning, shall we?”
“好吧，”格兰特说，坐在雷穆斯对面，用一种非常老师般的方式双手交叉，“我们从头开始，好吗？”

Remus nodded. He was determined to speak. If anyone could sort all of this out, it was Grant. He was sure of that. “Sirius.” He said. “I saw Sirius. And Peter.”
雷穆斯点了点头。他决心要说出来。如果有人能理清这一切，那就是格兰特。他对此很有信心。“小天狼星。”他说，“我见过小天狼星。还有彼得。”

“Wait,” Grant frowned, “Peter? I thought he…”
“等等，”格兰特皱起眉头，“彼得？我以为他……”

“No.” Remus said, darkly, his insides turning hot with rage, “He’s alive. He’s been hiding, all these years.”
“不是。”雷穆斯阴沉地说，内心充满愤怒，“他还活着。他这些年一直在躲藏。”

“From Sirius?”
“从小天狼星那里？”

“From everyone. He did it. He betrayed James and Lily; it was never Sirius.”
“从所有人那里。他做了这件事。他背叛了詹姆斯和莉莉；从来不是小天狼星。”

“How... “ Grant shook his head, clearly confused, “So he was in prison all this time for something Peter did? Jesus. Ok. You’re sure? He’s the one who told you?”
“怎么……“格兰特摇了摇头，显然很困惑，“所以他一直因为彼得做的事情而入狱？天哪。好的。你确定吗？是他告诉你的？”

“Yes, but I… I know for sure. I saw Peter, and I…” Remus faltered. “I just believe Sirius, ok?”
“是的，但我……我确定。我见过彼得，而且我……”雷穆斯犹豫了。“我只是相信小天狼星，好吗？”

The fact was that he had read Sirius’s mind, and he was still trying to get his head around that. He tried to piece the events of the night together, for Grant’s benefit and his own. “It was all Harry - James’s son. He left the school one night, and I knew why, so I followed him - I was worried Sirius would try to… but then Peter was there, I saw Peter, and I didn’t know what to think.”
事实上，他读取了小天狼星的思想，他仍在试图理清这一点。他试图将那晚的事件拼凑起来，为了格兰特的利益，也为了他自己。“一切都是哈利——詹姆斯的儿子。他某晚离开了学校，我知道原因，所以我跟着他——我担心小天狼星会尝试……但然后彼得在那里，我见到了彼得，我不知道该怎么想。”

Something deep inside him had known at once; the second he saw Wormtail’s name appear on the map. But he’d had to find out, had to know for sure. And then he’d got to the shack, and there was Sirius, skin and bones and rags and madness, cackling on the floor, Harry standing over him, poised with his wand.
他内心深处立即知道了；当他在地图上看到咕噜的名字出现的那一刻。但是他必须查明，必须确认。然后他到达了小屋，那里是小天狼星，骨瘦如柴，破布包裹着，疯狂地在地板上咯咯笑，哈利站在他身上，手握魔杖。

The wolf part of Remus took over, recognising that Padfoot was in danger, and he disarmed everyone at once. “Where is he, Sirius?!”
雷穆斯的狼性占了上风，意识到小天狼星处于危险中，他立刻解除所有人的武装。“他在哪里，小天狼星？！”

Then he saw the rat, and it all fell into place. His mind went rushing back to 1981; all the secrecy, the mistrust, the lies. He looked at Sirius properly, he widened his eyes, and - almost without trying - he entered Sirius’s thoughts. Show me he commanded, using the same magic the werewolves used - Sirius’s brain was half-canine by that point, and maybe that’s why it worked. Black resisted for a moment, no doubt recalling Walpurga’s forced intrusions, but he nodded, and he let Remus in.
然后他看到了那只老鼠，一切都理顺了。他的思绪迅速回到了1981年；所有的秘密，所有的不信任，所有的谎言。他仔细看着小天狼星，睁大了眼睛，几乎不费吹灰之力地进入了小天狼星的思想。展示给我，他命令道，使用了狼人使用的魔法——到那时，小天狼星的大脑已经半是犬类的，也许这就是为什么有效的原因。布莱克抵抗了一下，无疑回忆起了沃尔普尔加的强行侵入，但他点了点头，让雷穆斯进入了他的思维。

“But Padfoot,” James’s voice, echoing from a distant past, “I thought we were agreed?”
“但小天狼星，”詹姆斯的声音，从遥远的过去回响，“我以为我们达成了协议？”

“I know, but this is better, can’t you see?! No one will ever suspect Wormy!”
“我知道，但这更好，不是吗？没有人会怀疑咕噜！”

“Like a double bluff!” Lily chimed in. “It’s brilliant!”
“就像双重虚张声势！”莉莉插话道。“太棒了！”

Remus didn’t need to hear any more. He lowered the wands, and helped Sirius up, and embraced him tightly. I’m sorry, he communicated wordlessly, I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry…
雷穆斯不需要再听更多。他放下了魔杖，扶起小天狼星，紧紧拥抱他。他无声地传达着对不起，对不起，对不起，对不起……

Back in the flat, tears pricked in Remus’s eyes, and Grant pulled out a hanky, handing it to him. “So is he free, now? Sirius?”
回到公寓，雷穆斯的眼睛里涌出了泪水，格兰特拿出一块手帕递给他。“那么他现在自由了吗？小天狼星？”

“No,” Remus shook his head, collecting himself, “It all got so complicated, and I… it was a full moon. I only saw him for twenty minutes, maybe, and then I turned, and… so much happened without me. Peter ran away, they didn’t catch him. I should have killed him when I had the chance! I wanted to, I was going to, but Harry stopped me.”
“不，”雷穆斯摇了摇头，整理自己，“一切变得如此复杂，而我……那时是满月。我只见到他二十分钟，也许，然后我变身了……很多事发生在我身上。他跑了，他们没有抓到他。我应该在有机会时杀了他！我想的，我打算的，但哈利阻止了我。”

Grant paled, his mouth a grim line. He didn’t say anything, though.
格兰特脸色苍白，嘴巴紧绷。他没有说话。

“By the time it was morning, Sirius had escaped again too.” Remus continued. “He’s in hiding, and I don’t know…” I don’t know if I’ll ever see him again.
“到早晨时，小天狼星也再次逃脱了。”雷穆斯继续说道。“他在躲藏，我不知道……”我不知道我是否还能再见到他。

He wiped his eyes, and ran his fingers through his hair. “Fuck! All this time! All this time and I believed it! How could I have been so stupid?!”
他擦了擦眼睛，手指穿过头发。“该死！这么长时间！这么长时间我都相信了！我怎么会这么愚蠢？！”

“Hey, stop it.” Grant frowned, reaching out. Remus stood up abruptly, ignoring Grant and pacing the room once more, muttering to himself,
“喂，别这样。”格兰特皱起眉头，伸手去抓他。雷穆斯突然站起身，忽视了格兰特，再次在房间里踱步，自言自语，

“I should have known he would never hurt James! I shouldn’t have been so bloody gullible! So weak! I should have tried to see him, I could have got him out of there, I could have tracked down Peter, I could have…”
“我应该知道他不会伤害詹姆斯的！我不应该这么愚蠢！这么软弱！我应该尝试去见他，我本可以把他从那里救出来，我本可以追踪彼得，我本可以……”

“Remus!” Grant raised his voice, “Stop it.”
“雷穆斯！”格兰特提高了声音，“停下。”

Remus looked at him. “I don’t know what to do.” He said.
雷穆斯看着他。“我不知道该怎么办。”他说。

Grant sighed. “Me neither, mate.” He rubbed a hand over his face, and Remus saw the rings under his eyes. Grant stood up. “But there’s nothing you can do right this second, so. I’m going to have a shower, right? Then we’ll get dinner. Then we’ll talk a bit more.”
格兰特叹了口气。“我也不知道，伙计。”他用手擦了擦脸，雷穆斯看到了他眼下的黑眼圈。格兰特站起来。“但现在你不能做什么。所以。我去洗个澡，好吗？然后我们去吃晚饭。然后我们再聊聊。”

Remus nodded, eagerly. Yes, this was what he needed; a plan. Clear, defined next steps. Grant left the room, wearily. Remus waited, listening to the water running, trying once again to get his thoughts in order. He did something he hadn’t done since he was a teenager. He made a list.
雷穆斯急切地点了点头。是的，这正是他需要的；一个计划。明确的下一步。格兰特疲惫地离开了房间。雷穆斯等待着，听着水声，再次尝试理清思绪。他做了一件自从青少年时期以来就没做过的事。他列了一个清单。

So, Moony, he said to himself, what are the facts?
那么，月亮狼，他对自己说，事实是什么？

Sirius Black did not murder James and Lily Potter.
小天狼星布莱克没有谋杀詹姆斯和莉莉·波特。

Peter Pettigrew was alive.
彼得·佩提格鲁还活着。

Peter Pettigrew had been a spy.
彼得·佩提格鲁曾是间谍。

Peter Pettigrew murdered James and Lily Potter.
彼得·佩提格鲁谋杀了詹姆斯和莉莉·波特。

Sirius Black had been in prison for twelve years for a crime he was innocent of.
小天狼星布莱克因一项他无罪的罪行而入狱十二年。

A surge of anger washed over him once more. He had believed it! He was as guilty as Dumbledore, as anyone else who had simply assumed Sirius was the spy, because Sirius was a Black. In fact, Remus was even more at fault, because he ought to have known! No one was closer to Sirius than he was.
一阵愤怒再次涌上心头。他曾经相信过这一点！他和邓布利多一样有罪，与其他任何简单认为小天狼星是间谍的人一样，因为小天狼星是布莱克家族的人。实际上，雷穆斯的罪责更大，因为他本该知道！没有人比他更接近小天狼星了。

Those last few months of the war were such a blur. Hadn’t there been something wrong? Hadn’t Sirius been distant, cold with him? In the years since, Remus had taken that as proof of Padfoot’s betrayal, but now… now with a sick feeling, he saw it for what it was.
战争的最后几个月真是一片模糊。难道没有什么不对劲吗？难道小天狼星对他不是冷漠而且疏远吗？这些年来，雷穆斯把这当作小天狼星背叛的证据，但现在……现在他带着恶心的感觉看清了事情的真相。

“He thought I was the spy!” He said to Grant, the second he was out of the bathroom.
“他以为我是间谍！”他对格兰特说，当他刚走出浴室时。

“Eh?” Grant frowned, trying to get past Remus, wrapped in a towel. “Spy? What? Oi, let me get dressed, come on…”
“嗯？”格兰特皱起眉头，试图绕过裹着毛巾的雷穆斯。“间谍？什么？喂，让我穿好衣服，快点……”

Remus followed him into the bedroom and sat on the bed, talking fast as Grant dried himself and put on clean clothes.
雷穆斯跟着他进了卧室，坐在床上，格兰特擦干身体、换上干净的衣服时快速地讲述着。

“During the war, we knew there was a spy, we knew someone was passing information to the other side, but no one knew who. Afterwards, we thought it was Sirius - it all made sense, he was caught blowing up a street full of muggles, and--”
“在战争期间，我们知道有个间谍，我们知道有人在向对方传递情报，但没有人知道是谁。之后，我们认为是小天狼星——一切都有了解释，他被抓到炸毁了一条满是麻瓜的街道，和——”

“Do you have to call normal people that?”
“你必须这样称呼普通人吗？”

“Sorry. Anyway - Sirius was the secret keeper for James and Lily - err… that means he had this spell on him, so only he knew where they were. To keep them safe. But he switched with Peter, at the last minute, and now we know that Peter was the spy. And they didn’t tell me about the switch, Sirius didn’t tell me, because he must have thought…”
“对不起。无论如何——小天狼星是詹姆斯和莉莉的秘密守护者——呃……这意味着他身上有一个魔咒，只有他知道他们在哪里。为了保护他们。但他在最后时刻和彼得交换了位置，现在我们知道彼得是间谍。他们没有告诉我这个交换，小天狼星没有告诉我，因为他肯定认为……”

“He didn't trust you.” Grant said, bluntly. Dressed, he sat down on the bed too, at a distance from Remus.
“他不信任你。”格兰特直言不讳地说。穿好衣服后，他也坐在床上，和雷穆斯保持距离。

“I suppose I can’t blame him…”
“我想我不能怪他……”

“Had you broken his trust before?” Grant raised an eyebrow.
“你以前破坏过他的信任吗？”格兰特挑了挑眉。

“...No.”
“……没有。”

“Did you think he was the spy? Before James and Lily died?”
“在詹姆斯和莉莉死之前，你认为他是间谍吗？”

“No, never!”
“不，从来没有！”

“Well then.” Grant stood up. “I’m going to nip to the shop - we need milk and bread… toothpaste…”
“那好吧。”格兰特站起身。“我要去商店——我们需要牛奶和面包……牙膏……”

“Wait, no, what do you mean ‘well then’?!”
“等等，你什么意思‘那好吧’？！”

“Nothing. Look, come on, come to the shop with me. Then I promise we can talk about it. I’ll listen to you all night long if you want, I swear. I just want to get some food in you first.”
“没什么。听着，来吧，跟我去商店。然后我保证我们可以再聊。我会听你讲整晚，如果你愿意的话，我发誓。我只是想先让你吃点东西。”

Remus went along with that. He watched Grant cook, and he swallowed every mouthful, and then he talked and he talked and he talked. But it was no good. It came to nothing in the end.
雷穆斯同意了。他看着格兰特做饭，吞下了每一口，然后他讲述个不停。但结果并不好。最后什么也没有改变。

“If Sirius is in hiding, and Peter’s on the run…” Grant said, yawning.
“如果小天狼星在躲藏，彼得在逃亡……”格兰特打了个哈欠。

“He’ll go straight to Voldemort, the rat.” Remus growled.
“他会直接去找伏地魔，那只老鼠。”雷穆斯低声咆哮。

“Right, ok,” Grant waved a hand, “If Sirius is in hiding, then you can’t do anything. It sounds like it’s out of your hands.”
“对，好吧，”格兰特挥了挥手，“如果小天狼星在躲藏，那么你什么也做不了。听起来这已经超出了你的能力范围。”

“Maybe I could send an owl… only that might give away his location…”
“也许我可以发一只猫头鹰……不过那可能会暴露他的藏身之处……”

“And then you’ll get arrested and sent to Alcatraz, or whatever it is, for colluding with a criminal.” Grant said, with an air of finality.
“然后你会被逮捕，送到阿尔卡特拉兹，或者其他什么地方，因为你与罪犯勾结。”格兰特带着一种最终的语气说。

“I just want to help him.” Remus said.
“我只是想帮他。”雷穆斯说。

“Of course you do. But I don’t see how.”
“当然了。但我看不到办法。”

They sat in silence for a while, thinking. It was dark outside, Remus didn’t know what time it was, but it had to be pretty late. Grant looked exhausted, and Remus felt a small twinge of guilt, on top of everything else.
他们沉默地坐了一会儿，思考着。外面已经黑了，雷穆斯不知道现在是什么时间，但一定很晚了。格兰特看起来很疲惫，雷穆斯在所有其他感受之上还感到一丝内疚。

“Sorry to put you through this.” He said, quietly, reaching for Grant’s hand. “It’s not really fair of me.”
“对不起让你经历这些。”他说，轻声说道，伸手去握格兰特的手。“我这样做对你不公平。”

“It’s fine,” Grant gave him a small smile, stroking Remus’s knuckles with his thumb, “I do understand. It’s just… a lot.”
“没关系，”格兰特给了他一个小小的微笑，用拇指抚摸雷穆斯的指关节，“我理解。这只是……太多了。”

“I know.”
“我知道。”

“How… how was it, seeing him? I mean, how did it make you feel?”
“你见到他时感觉如何？我的意思是，那让你感觉怎么样？”

Remus shifted, awkwardly. There it was. The thought he’d been avoiding. Because if Sirius was innocent, if he’d never betrayed James, then he’d never betrayed Remus, either. And Remus didn’t know what that meant to him, now, after so much time.
雷穆斯尴尬地移动了一下。那里就是了。那是他一直在回避的想法。因为如果小天狼星是无辜的，如果他从未背叛过詹姆斯，那么他也从未背叛过雷穆斯。而雷穆斯不知道这对他意味着什么，现在，经过这么长时间。

“We’re both so different, now.” He said, aware Grant was holding his breath while he waited for the response. “I barely recognised him, really, I just felt sorry for him.” The flutter in his stomach told him he was lying.
“我们现在都变得如此不同。”他说，意识到格兰特在等待回应时屏住了呼吸。“我几乎认不出他了，我只是为他感到遗憾。”他胃中的悸动告诉他他在撒谎。

Grant leaned over and kissed him. “Everything will be all right, in the end.” He said.
格兰特俯身吻了他。“一切都会好的。”他说。

 

Chapter 185: Early Summer 1995We passed upon the stair

We spoke of was and when

Although I wasn't there

He said I was his friend

Which came as some surprise

I spoke into his eyes;

I thought you died alone

A long long time ago.

 

Saturday 24th June 1995

That fucking phoenix arrived, first, and Remus knew at once.

“What the bloody hell is that?!” Grant leapt up, startled by the silvery bird which burst into their living room. They’d been watching telly, with all the windows open to counteract the summer heat. Remus had just been about to put the kettle on.
“这到底是什么鬼东西？！”格兰特吓得跳了起来，看到一只银色的鸟闯进了他们的客厅。他们一直在看电视，所有的窗户都开着，以抵消夏天的热量。雷穆斯刚准备去烧水壶。

The bird sat on top of their boxy little TV and opened its beak, speaking in Dumbledore’s voice;
那只鸟停在他们那台方方正正的小电视上，张开了嘴，用邓布利多的声音说：

“Padfoot is on his way.”
“天狼星正在路上。”

Remus nearly dropped the empty mugs he was holding.
雷穆斯差点儿掉了手里的空杯子。

“Fuck.”
“该死。”

“What?” Grant said, watching the bird vanish into thin air. “Who’s Padfoot?”
“什么？”格兰特问，看到那只鸟消失在空气中。“谁是天狼星？”

“Fuck.” Remus said again, setting down the mugs. He had begun to shake uncontrollably. He felt cold all over. “I don’t think I can. I don’t think I can…” he mumbled to himself, covering his mouth.
“该死。”雷穆斯再次说着，把杯子放下。他开始 uncontrollably地颤抖，全身感到冰冷。“我不觉得我能做到。我不觉得我能……”他自言自语地说，捂住了自己的嘴巴。

“Remus?” Grant stood up and touched his shoulder. “You’re scaring me.”
“雷穆斯？”格兰特站起身，触摸他的肩膀。“你吓到我了。”

“Sirius.” He spluttered. “Sirius is Padfoot.”
“小天狼星。”他结结巴巴地说。“小天狼星是天狼星。”

“Bloody hell. The murderer?”
“天哪。那个杀人犯？”

“Not a murderer, I told you.”
“不是杀人犯，我告诉过你。”

“Right, right, sorry. Coming here ?!”
“对，对，抱歉。要来这里？！”

“It’s his flat, after all.”
“毕竟这是他的公寓。”

“Oh, I forgot.” Grant said, flatly. He bit his lip, “Should I... go?”
“哦，我忘了。”格兰特平淡地说。他咬了咬嘴唇，“我应该……离开吗？”

“No!” Remus clung to Grant, suddenly, “No, please, please don’t. I can’t be alone, don’t leave me alone with--”
“不要！”雷穆斯突然抓住格兰特，“不，请，不要。我不能一个人，别让我一个人和——”

“Ok, ok!” Grant soothed him, hugging him back, “Calm down, all right? I won’t go anywhere if you don’t want. Just… just try to get yourself together.”
“好，好！”格兰特安抚他说，回抱住他，“冷静下来，好吗？如果你不想，我不会离开的。只是……尽量让自己振作起来。”

“I’m sorry.” Remus took a deep breath.
“对不起。”雷穆斯深吸了一口气。

He knew he was acting childishly. This was no time to fall apart. He’d had years and years of that. If Dumbledore was sending Sirius to him, then something had happened. Something important. Now was the time for strength and action. He gazed around blindly for something to do.
他知道自己表现得很幼稚。现在不是崩溃的时候。他已经经历了多年的痛苦。如果邓布利多派小天狼星来找他，那么一定发生了什么事。重要的事。现在是需要力量和行动的时候。他盲目地环顾四周，寻找能做的事情。

“This place is a mess! I should start cleaning. He won’t be long.”
“这个地方一团糟！我应该开始打扫。他不会太久的。”

Grant was helpless to do anything but watch as Remus ran around the flat like a headless chicken, using every cleaning charm he could remember, combined with some actual manual labour when he mucked up the spells. He couldn’t stop moving, he couldn’t bear to sit still for a moment, because then he might have to think.
格兰特无能为力，只能看着雷穆斯在公寓里像无头苍蝇一样跑来跑去，使用他能记得的每一个清洁魔咒，并在咒语失败时进行一些实际的体力劳动。他无法停止移动，无法忍受片刻的静止，因为那样他可能不得不思考。

Within the hour, there was a scratching noise at the door, and a low, gruff bark. Remus froze. A scent he had not known in many years reared something in his subconscious.
一个小时内，门口传来抓挠声和低沉粗哑的吠声。雷穆斯僵住了。他多年来未曾闻过的气味在他的潜意识中唤起了一些东西。

“Was that a dog?” Grant said, nervously, from the kitchen. “You know I hate dogs…”
“那是一只狗吗？”格兰特在厨房里紧张地问。“你知道我讨厌狗……”

“It’s him.” Remus breathed. He walked shakily to the door, and pulled it open. There was Padfoot - scrawny, mangy, fur slightly greying in places. But it was him.
“是他。”雷穆斯喘息着说。他颤颤巍巍地走到门前，拉开了门。那是天狼星——瘦弱、满身脏毛，毛发有些地方变灰了。但那是他。

“Come in,” Remus said, hoarsely.
“进来，”雷穆斯沙哑地说。

The dog huffed, bobbing its head, and entered. Remus clicked the door shut, and leaned against it, watching as Sirius transformed back into himself.
那只狗喘了口气，点了点头，然后进去了。雷穆斯关上门，靠在门上，看着小天狼星变回了他自己。

Scrawny, mangy; greying in places. His eyes, those dark blue eyes that had broken Remus’s heart a thousand times as a teenager, had turned dull gunmetal grey. He was a bag of bones, unsettled all over. It was to be expected.
瘦弱、满身脏毛；毛发有些地方变灰了。他的眼睛，那些在青少年时期让雷穆斯心碎的深蓝色眼睛，已经变成了暗淡的铅灰色。他瘦骨嶙峋，全身不安。这是可以预料的。

“I’ve come straight from Hogwarts.” He said. His voice was as hard and rasping as it had been last summer.
“我刚从霍格沃茨过来。”他说。他的声音像去年夏天一样坚硬和沙哑。

“Yes,” Remus said, rubbing the back of his head. “Dumbledore sent a message ahead.”
“是的，”雷穆斯说，搓了搓自己的后脑勺。“邓布利多提前发了消息。”

Sirius twitched, slightly, and nodded. “Something happened at the tournament. Harry was kidnapped.”
小天狼星稍微有些颤动，点了点头。“比赛中发生了什么事。哈利被绑架了。”

“What?! Is he--”
“什么？！他——”

“He came back, he’s fine - fine as can be expected. Voldemort’s back, too.”
“他回来了，他没事——能有的也就是那样的没事。伏地魔也回来了。”

“What?!”
“什么？！”

“It’s true. Harry faced him.”
“是真的。哈利面对了他。”

“No.” Remus felt sick.
“不。”雷穆斯感到恶心。

“The Order’s reforming. Dumbledore told me to come here, lie low.”
“凤凰社正在重组。邓布利多让我来这里，藏身。”

“Right.” Remus nodded, still taking in the shock.
“对。”雷穆斯点点头，仍在消化震惊。

“If that's…” Sirius’s face softened, he looked younger - more like the real Sirius, “If you don’t mind? I just followed orders without thinking, but I could go somewhere else if…”
“如果那是……”小天狼星的脸变得柔和，看起来年轻了——更像真正的小天狼星，“如果你不介意的话？我只是没有思考地执行命令，但如果……”

“No!” Remus said, very firmly, snapping out of the confusion that had gripped him ever since Dumbledore’s patronus appeared. He put a hand on Sirius’s shoulder. Oh, he was so thin. “Of course you should stay here, it's your home.”
“不要！”雷穆斯非常坚定地说，摆脱了自从邓布利多的护法出现后一直笼罩在他身上的困惑。他拍了拍小天狼星的肩膀。哦，他瘦得可怜。“当然你应该留在这里，这是你的家。”

Sirius looked so relieved that Remus wanted to pull him close and wrap his arms around him. But he didn't. He looked at Grant, who was watching warily from the kitchen doorway.
小天狼星显得如此放松，以至于雷穆斯想要把他拉近，拥抱住他。但他没有这样做。他看着格兰特，格兰特正从厨房门口警惕地看着他们。

Sirius followed his eye line and gave a start. “You’re here.”
小天狼星顺着他的视线看去，吃了一惊。“你在这里。”

It wasn’t a question; just a statement of fact.
这不是一个问题；只是一个事实陈述。

Grant, god love him, gave his breeziest smile, “Alright, mate? Tell you what, you look like you could do with a Chinese. I’ll pop out, shall I, Remus?”
格兰特，上天保佑他，露出他最轻松的笑容，“怎么样，伙计？跟你说，你看起来需要点中餐。我出去一趟，怎么样，雷穆斯？”

“You don’t have to-”
“你不必……”

“I think I do.” Grant smiled.
“我觉得我必须去。”格兰特笑了。

He grabbed his wallet from the coffee table on his way out. He didn’t kiss Remus on the cheek, as he usually might, but gave him a pat on the shoulder and said, “I’ll be half an hour.” He closed the door softly behind himself.
他在离开时从咖啡桌上拿起了钱包。他没有像往常一样亲吻雷穆斯的脸颊，而是拍了拍他的肩膀，说：“我半小时就回来。”他轻轻地关上了门。

Sirius and Remus stood in silence for what felt like minutes.
小天狼星和雷穆斯沉默地站着，感觉过了几分钟。

Sirius frowned, making deep lines appear in his face.
小天狼星皱起了眉头，脸上出现了深深的皱纹。

“That was rude of me. I didn’t mean to be rude.” He began to scratch the back of his hand, anxiously, his fingernails long and black with grime. Remus felt a sorrowful tug deep in his stomach, and reached out to still him.
“我刚才很无礼。我不是故意的。”他开始焦虑地抓挠手背，指甲长而黑，沾满污垢。雷穆斯感到胃里一阵悲伤的抽搐，伸手去安抚他。

“How about a shower? Then a sit down. Everything's ok.”
“怎么了？先洗个澡，然后坐下来。一切都没问题。”

Sirius looked up at him. Remus had forgotten how much smaller he was.
小天狼星抬头看着他。雷穆斯已经忘记了他曾经多么瘦小。

“Sounds good.” Sirius nodded, weakly.
“听起来不错。”小天狼星虚弱地点了点头。

Remus showed him to the bathroom, which was silly, because obviously he knew where the bathroom was; nothing had changed in thirteen years. While Sirius was washing, Remus went to the bedroom to find some clean clothes.
雷穆斯带他去了浴室，这很傻，因为他显然知道浴室在哪里；十三年来没什么变化。当小天狼星在洗澡时，雷穆斯去卧室找干净的衣服。

He pulled a few shirts out of the dresser - he wanted to give Sirius his things to wear, not Grant’s, but after all this time Remus honestly didn’t know which belonged to who. He settled on an oversized knitted jumper, which was definitely his. It would swamp Sirius, but it would be comfortable. Digging out a pair of tartan pyjama bottoms to go with it, he lay them carefully on the bed.
他从衣柜里拿出几件衬衫——他想给小天狼星他的衣服，而不是格兰特的，但这么久以来雷穆斯实际上不知道哪些是属于谁的。他选择了一件超大的针织毛衣，那肯定是他的。虽然会把小天狼星淹没，但会很舒适。他挖出一条格子睡裤，放在床上。

There was only one bed in the flat - there had only ever been one bed and they had only ever needed one bed. The problem of where to put Sirius was unanswerable. Remus was still staring down at the clothes when he heard the water go off (the boiler stuttered and clunked a few times, he’d been meaning to look at it for ages) and the bathroom door click unlocked.
公寓里只有一张床——一直只有一张床，他们只需要一张床。如何安置小天狼星的问题无解。雷穆斯仍在盯着这些衣物时，听到水声停止（锅炉发出几声咔嗒声，他一直打算查看一下）和浴室门的锁扣声。

“Remus?!” Sirius called out, a note of panic in his voice.
“雷穆斯？！”小天狼星焦急地叫道。

“Bedroom.” Remus replied.
“卧室。”雷穆斯回答道。

Sirius entered, his hair dripping on the carpet. He’d wrapped the biggest bath sheet around himself like a shawl, covering his whole body from neck to skinny ankles. Remus looked away, embarrassed, and gestured at the clothes laid out.
小天狼星走了进来，头发滴落在地毯上。他用最大的浴巾裹住自己，像披肩一样，从脖子到瘦弱的脚踝全都包裹住了。雷穆斯不好意思地转过脸去，示意床上的衣物。

“Here.” He said, “I’ll let you change.”
“这里。”他说，“我让你换衣服。”

He made to leave, but Sirius’s hand darted out and grabbed his arm. He had that wild look in his eye again,
他正要离开，但小天狼星的手猛地伸出抓住了他的胳膊。他眼中又有了那种狂野的神情，

“Don’t go.” He said, “Could you stay in the room?”
“不要走。”他说，“你能留在房间里吗？”

“Ok…” Remus nodded, patting Sirius’s claw-like hand. He’d been scratching it again, it was red raw.
“好的……”雷穆斯点了点头，拍了拍小天狼星像爪子一样的手。他又抓挠了它，现在已经红肿了。

Remus turned and looked at the curtains while Sirius dressed himself. His movements sounded slow, like an old man, or an invalid - not like elegant, energetic Sirius Black. Fury seared through Remus. They took everything from him, he thought, fiercely, everything that made him who he was.
雷穆斯转过身看着窗帘，当小天狼星穿衣服时。他的动作缓慢，像个老人，或无用的人——完全不像优雅、充满活力的小天狼星·布莱克。雷穆斯心中充满了愤怒。他们从他身上夺走了一切，他激烈地想着，一切让他成为他自己的东西。

When he turned around, Sirius was staring at the bed. Remus looked too, trying to see it through Sirius’s eyes. The neatly made bedspread; the matching bedside tables; one with a book on top, the other with a packet of cigarettes.
当他转身时，小天狼星正盯着床。雷穆斯也看了看，试图从小天狼星的视角看它。整齐的床单；配套的床头柜；一个上面有一本书，另一个上面有一包香烟。

“I’ll sleep on the couch.” Sirius said. “I don’t want to muck anything up between you and… and… sorry, his name’s gone.”
“小天狼星说。“我会睡在沙发上。我不想打扰你和……和……抱歉，他的名字忘了。”

“Grant.”
“格兰特。”

“Grant.” Sirius looked away again. His eyes never rested long, he was always searching the corners of the room for something. “I’ve forgotten a lot, I think.”
“格兰特。”小天狼星又一次转过头。他的眼睛从不长时间停留，总是四处搜寻房间的角落。“我觉得我忘了很多。”

“That’s ok.”
“没关系。”

Remus had never felt a pain like this. And Remus had been feeling pain most of his life. “Come and sit down. Cup of tea?”
雷穆斯从未感受过这样的痛苦。雷穆斯一生中大多数时间都在感受痛苦。“来坐下。喝杯茶？”

“Cup of tea.” Sirius parroted back.
“小茶杯。”小天狼星复述道。

Remus nodded, slowly, then led him into the kitchen.
雷穆斯慢慢点了点头，然后带他进了厨房。

“Thank you.” Sirius said, after a little while, “Sorry, I… I keep forgetting things.”
“小天狼星过了一会儿说：“谢谢你。”对不起，我……我一直在忘记东西。”

Remus touched his arm, gently,
雷穆斯轻轻地碰了碰他的胳膊，

“It’s ok. Go and sit. I’ll be a minute, you can hear me from the living room.”
“没关系。去坐着。我会很快的，你可以从客厅听到我。”

Sirius left, silently. Remus breathed a sigh of relief - the atmosphere was still thick with memory, and hurt, and Azkaban, but at least it was bearable when Sirius wasn’t standing right there.
小天狼星静静地离开了。雷穆斯松了一口气——气氛依旧充满记忆、痛苦和阿兹卡班，但至少当小天狼星不站在那儿时，这种感觉是可以忍受的。

Last year, in the shack, Remus hadn’t had time to feel anything other than terror and joy. And, typically, he had spent the rest of his time since trying to pretend none of it had happened at all. Not because he’d wanted to, but because it was the only thing he could do. He should have known better; should have known that Sirius always demanded confrontation.
去年，在那间小屋里，雷穆斯没有时间感受其他任何东西，只有恐惧和喜悦。通常，他在那之后花了剩下的时间试图假装这一切都没有发生。不是因为他想这样做，而是因为这是他能做的唯一事。他应该知道得更好；应该知道小天狼星总是要求面对。

He took a long time over the tea, brewing it in a pot, rather than the electric kettle. How did Sirius take his tea? He couldn’t remember. Maybe he had never known - Sirius usually made it, back then. In the end, Remus simply put out everything, setting up a tray with immaculate attention and care, as if he was serving the queen. Slice of lemon. Little jug of milk. Bowl of brown sugar lumps. There weren’t any biscuits left, Grant had had the last of the digestives.
他花了很长时间泡茶，用茶壶而不是电热水壶。他怎么泡茶，小天狼星的茶喝什么？他记不得了。也许他从未知道——当时通常是小天狼星泡茶。最后，雷穆斯只是把一切都准备好，精心地摆放在托盘上，就像他在为女王服务一样。切片柠檬。小 jug的牛奶。装有红糖块的碗。没有饼干了，格兰特吃了最后的消化饼。

When it was all ready, he still hadn’t the nerve to carry it through. He panicked for a moment, before hearing the door click open. Had it been half an hour already?
一切准备好后，他仍然没有勇气把它端出去。他瞬间感到惊慌，随后听到门被打开了。已经过了半小时了吗？

“‘Orright?!” Grant’s brash, overloud cockney accent filled the flat, warming it instantly. He acted as if there was nothing at all out of the ordinary as he bustled into the living room, laden with food.
“‘Orright?!” 格兰特那粗鲁而响亮的伦敦口音充满了公寓，瞬间让它温暖起来。他像没发生什么特别的事一样，忙乎着把食物带进客厅。

Remus could hear him setting it all out on the coffee table, unwrapping cartons of egg fried rice, sweet and sour chicken, chow mein, pork balls, chinese ribs, spring rolls; all the while chatting away to Sirius,
雷穆斯能听到他把所有食物摆放在咖啡桌上，拆开蛋炒饭、糖醋鸡、炒面、猪肉丸、猪肋骨、春卷的包装；同时和小天狼星聊天，

“Blimey, don’t you look better after a wash, eh? Still got that nice thick hair. Jealous, I’ll be bald by the time I’m forty, reckon. Seen how grey Remus is? Looks distinguished, I tell ‘im, but ‘e don’t listen…”
“哎呀，你洗完澡看起来好多了，哈？头发还那么浓密。我真羡慕，我到四十岁时肯定会秃头的。看看雷穆斯多么灰白？我告诉他看起来很有气质，但他不听……”

Fortified, Remus lifted the tray and carried it into the living room. Sirius was sitting primly on the edge of the couch, staring at Grant the way an animal stares at a potential predator.
感到鼓舞，雷穆斯提起托盘，把它带到客厅。小天狼星端坐在沙发边缘，像动物盯着潜在的掠食者一样盯着格兰特。

“I’ll grab plates…” Grant said, passing Remus on his way back to the kitchen. He didn’t make eye contact. Remus didn’t blame him. The situation wasn’t fair on anyone; least of all Grant.
“我去拿盘子……”格兰特边说边从雷穆斯身边走回厨房。他没有与雷穆斯对视。雷穆斯不怪他。这种情况对任何人都不公平；尤其是对格兰特。

Remus tried to smile at Sirius, offering the tea tray. “Here we are.” He murmured.
雷穆斯尝试对小天狼星微笑，递上茶托盘。“来，这里。”他低声说道。

Sirius looked at the tea, the lemon, the sugar, then down at his hands.
小天狼星看着茶、柠檬、糖，然后看向自己的手。

“Are you hungry?” Remus asked, “Is this all right?”
“你饿吗？”雷穆斯问，“这样还好吗？”

Sirius nodded. “Lovely, thanks. You shouldn’t go to all this trouble.”
小天狼星点了点头。“很好，谢谢你。你不必费这么大的劲。”

 

“Nonsense.”
“别说了。”

Grant brought in the plates. They sat around the coffee table, Sirius on the sofa, Remus in the armchair, and Grant on the floor. Sirius put food on his plate and picked at it like a bird. He didn’t use the forks they’d put out, or the chopsticks that came with the meal, he used his hands to eat, tearing everything into small pieces and feeding them into his mouth. Remus and Grant politely ignored it, making light conversation.
格兰特拿来了盘子。他们围坐在咖啡桌周围，小天狼星坐在沙发上，雷穆斯坐在扶手椅里，格兰特则坐在地板上。小天狼星把食物放在自己的盘子里，用手撕成小块，然后送进嘴里，就像只小鸟。他没有使用他们准备的叉子，或者餐食附带的筷子。雷穆斯和格兰特礼貌地忽略了这一点，轻松地聊天。

“I’ll have to do a proper shop, on my way back from work tomorrow.” Grant said. “Get you a toothbrush, some things like that.”
“我明天下班回来的路上得去好好买东西。”格兰特说，“给你买个牙刷，还有一些其他的东西。”

“I can do that.” Remus said. He was keen to take care of Sirius himself; as if he’d brought home a stray he ought to be responsible for. He looked at Sirius, “Your clothes and books are boxed up in the garage. I’ll go and have a look tomorrow.”
“我可以做的。”雷穆斯说。他想亲自照顾小天狼星，就像他带回家了一只流浪狗，应该对它负责。他看着小天狼星，“你的衣服和书都在车库里打包好了。我明天去看看。”

“You kept them?” Sirius looked up, almost hopefully, “You kept my things?”
“你留着它们了吗？”小天狼星抬头看着，几乎带着希望，“你留着我的东西了吗？”

“Er. Well, after everything, Mary showed up and did it for me. I wasn’t… I wasn’t very well, for a while. I’m not sure what state they’re in, I haven’t been there since.”
“呃，嗯，经过一切之后，玛丽来了，帮我处理了。我当时……我当时身体不太好。有段时间我不太清楚它们的状况，自那以后我没去过。”

“I didn’t expect you to keep anything.”
“我没想到你会留着任何东西。”

Remus didn’t know what to say, so he shrugged. It hadn’t really been a case of wanting to hang onto Sirius’s stuff; more that he’d just hidden it away so he didn’t have to think about it. He was glad now, obviously, but he didn’t want any more credit than he was due.
雷穆斯不知道该说什么，于是他耸了耸肩。他并不是想留着小天狼星的东西；更多的是他只是把它们藏起来，好让自己不必去想它们。他现在显然感到很高兴，但他不想获得超出应有的赞誉。

They finished eating, and Sirius wiped his greasy hands on the legs of his pyjama bottoms, and Remus tried not to wince. Sirius used to be so fastidious about cleanliness - Remus’s disorganisation had always irritated him. Another change.
他们吃完了，小天狼星用睡裤的裤腿擦拭油腻的手，雷穆斯尽量不去皱眉。小天狼星以前对清洁是如此讲究——雷穆斯的无序总是让他感到恼火。这是另一个变化。

Grant got up to collect the plates and cutlery for washing up. Sirius sat up, “I can do that, let me,” he withdrew a wand from his baggy sleeve.
格兰特站起来去收拾盘子和餐具。小天狼星坐起身来，“我可以做的，让我来。”他从松垮的袖子里拿出一根魔杖。

“Where did you get that?” Remus asked, frowning.
“你从哪里弄来的？”雷穆斯皱着眉头问。

“Stole it,” Sirius looked down, turning it in his hand, “Took a while to get used to, but I can handle it ok now. Here, let me...”
“偷来的，”小天狼星低下头，转动着手里的魔杖，“花了一段时间才习惯，但我现在可以应付得很好。来，让我……”

“It’s fine.” Grant said. He was smiling, but you couldn’t hear it in his voice. “I’d prefer to do it normally.” He turned, carrying the pile of plates into the kitchen.
“没关系。”格兰特说。他在笑，但声音里听不出笑意。“我更愿意用正常的方式做。”他转身把一堆盘子拿进了厨房。

“ Muffliato .” Sirius muttered. Remus blinked, surprised. He hadn’t heard that spell in a very long time, and he had never, ever used something like that with Grant present. It felt disloyal, sneaky. “Is the floo connection working?” Sirius asked, urgently.
“小声音术。”小天狼星喃喃道。雷穆斯眨了眨眼睛，感到惊讶。他已经很久没听到过这个咒语了，而且他从未在格兰特在场时使用过类似的东西。这感觉不忠诚，阴险。“火焰通道连接正常吗？”小天狼星急切地问。

“No.” Remus said. “I never re-connected. I don’t actually do very much magic at home, because--”
“没有。”雷穆斯说。“我没有重新连接。我在家里实际上不怎么使用魔法，因为——”

“Yeah, because of the muggle,” Sirius finished, and Remus could have sworn he rolled his eyes. “He’s made a lot of changes, I see.” He gave the TV a very pointed look.
“是的，因为麻瓜，”小天狼星接过话茬，雷穆斯可以发誓他翻了个白眼。“他做了很多改变，我看到了。”他非常明显地看了一眼电视。

“It’s his home too,” Remus said, defensively.
“这也是他的家。”雷穆斯辩解道。

“Whatever, I don’t care. Right, we’ll need to re-connect it. If I’m staying here, that is. We’ll need to be able to communicate with the rest of the Order.”
“随便，我不在乎。好吧，我们需要重新连接。如果我要留在这里的话。我们需要能够与其他成员保持联系。”

“The rest of the--”
“其他的——”

“--have you got an owl?” Sirius glanced around.
“——你有猫头鹰吗？”小天狼星环顾四周。

“No,” Remus said. He chewed his lip, “I’ve got a phone.” He offered, trying to lighten the mood.
“没有，”雷穆斯说。他咬着嘴唇，“我有个电话。”他提议道，试图缓解气氛。

“For merlin’s sake, Moony!” Sirius barked, his rough voice crackling with urgency, “What have you been doing all these years, moping about?!”
“天啊，月亮！”小天狼星吼道，他粗糙的声音中带着紧迫感，“这些年你都在做什么，发愁吗？！”

Remus flinched - both at being called Moony, which nobody ever did, and at the cruel accusation.
雷穆斯感到一阵颤抖——既因为被称为月亮，这没人会这样称呼，也因为那个残酷的指责。

“I’ve been surviving.” He said, trying to stay calm, “How easy do you think it is for me to hold down a job? And it’s not as if I’ve had anyone I need to keep in touch with.”
“我一直在生存。”他说，试图保持冷静，“你觉得我维持一份工作有多容易？而且我也没有需要联系的人。”

Sirius didn’t say anything, but pursed his lips and scowled, staring at the carpet. Remus sighed, closing his eyes. “Look,” he said, gently, “I can imagine how you must feel. I know you want to do everything at once, now you’re free, but let’s just take things slowly tonight, ok? Get a proper night’s sleep and we’ll work on a plan tomorrow.”
小天狼星没有说话，只是抿着嘴唇，皱着眉头盯着地毯。雷穆斯叹了口气，闭上了眼睛。“看，”他说，温柔地，“我可以想象你一定是什么感受。我知道你现在自由了，想要一次性做所有的事情，但今晚我们还是慢慢来，好吗？好好睡一晚，明天我们再制定计划。”

Sirius nodded, mollified. Remus felt proud of himself. He hadn't cried, or shouted, and that was pretty good progress, at least as far as Sirius Black was concerned. Grant re-entered the room, and Remus quickly undid the muffliato charm.
小天狼星点了点头，显得平静了下来。雷穆斯感到很自豪。他没有哭泣，也没有大喊大叫，这在小天狼星·布莱克看来已经是很大的进步了。格兰特重新进入房间，雷穆斯迅速解除了小声音术的咒语。

“Shall I stick the telly on?” He asked the silent room. Remus nodded. Sirius returned to scowling.
“我把电视打开吗？”他问着寂静的房间。雷穆斯点了点头。小天狼星又开始皱眉。

The news was on, and then the weather. Then some American hospital drama, which made Grant tut and switch over. There was a documentary on about Fleetwood Mac, which they all vaguely watched. No one really spoke, except Grant every now and then.
新闻开始播放，然后是天气预报。接着是一部美国医院剧，格兰特发出了不满的声音并换台了。之后有一部关于Fleetwood Mac的纪录片，他们都模糊地看着。除了格兰特偶尔发言，大家没有人真正交谈。

Remus was in turmoil, his brain whirring into overdrive as too many conflicting thoughts and feeling flashed past. It had been so long since he’d been in the same room as Sirius, and now they couldn’t even talk to each other without hitting some immeasurable barrier, whether it was the war, or lost friends, or their mutual betrayal. And now the order was reforming, and it looked like everyone expected Remus to sign himself up, once again, without hesitation. But he wasn’t the boy he’d been last time. He was old, and he was tired. He had other responsibilities - he had Grant.
雷穆斯心乱如麻，他的大脑高速运转，冲突的思想和情感闪过。自从他和小天狼星在同一个房间里已经很久了，现在他们甚至无法相互交谈而不遇到某种无法测量的障碍，无论是战争，还是失去的朋友，还是彼此的背叛。现在，凤凰社正在重组，看起来每个人都希望雷穆斯再次毫不犹豫地加入。但他已不再是上次那个少年。他老了，也累了。他还有其他责任——他有格兰特。

At about ten o’clock, Sirius yawned.
大约十点钟，小天狼星打了个哈欠。

“Yeah, me too.” Grant commented, yawning back. “Got work in the morning, maybe it’s time for bed.” He looked at Remus, obviously hoping for some sort of direction.
“嗯，我也是。”格兰特回应道，也打了个哈欠。“明天早上要上班，也许是时候上床睡觉了。”他看向雷穆斯，显然希望得到一些指示。

“Yeah,” Remus said, uncertain. He placed his hands on the arms of his chair to push himself up, stiff from sitting so rigidly all evening. “Um. Sirius, are you ok here? I’ll get you a cushion and a duvet.”
“嗯，”雷穆斯说，语气不确定。他把手放在扶手椅的扶手上，试图站起身来，身体因整晚坐得过于僵硬而感到僵硬。“呃。小天狼星，你在这里还好吗？我去给你拿个靠垫和一条被子。”

“No need.” Sirius said. He stretched again, and transformed into Padfoot. Grant breathed in, sharply, at the surprise, but said nothing. The big black dog curled up on the couch and closed its eyes.
“没必要。”小天狼星说。他再次伸展了一下，然后变成了帕德弗特。格兰特对这一惊讶深吸了一口气，但没有说话。那只大黑狗在沙发上蜷缩起来，闭上了眼睛。

“Can you do that?” Grant whispered, half an hour later, once he and Remus were both in bed. “Turn into a wolf whenever you like?”
“你能这样做吗？”格兰特在半小时后，雷穆斯和他都躺在床上时，低声问道。“你可以随时变成狼吗？”

“No.” Remus said. “He’s an animagus. He learnt how to do it. I’m a werewolf, I got bitten, I don’t get a choice.”
“不能。”雷穆斯说。“他是个变形人。他学会了怎么做。我是狼人，我被咬了，我没有选择。”

“Bad luck.” Grant said, “Mind you, don’t think I’d like it much, if you could.”
“真是不走运。”格兰特说，“不过，你别以为我会喜欢，如果你能变的话。”

“He won’t hurt you, he’s still got his normal mind when he’s a dog.” Though Remus wasn’t sure what Sirius’s ‘normal mind’ was like, anymore. Everything else about him was rumpled and damaged in some way.
“他不会伤害你，他作为狗的时候，头脑还是正常的。”虽然雷穆斯不确定小天狼星的“正常头脑”现在是什么样的。他身上的其他一切都以某种方式变得皱巴巴和受损。

“Are you ok?” Grant said, turning his head to watch Remus’s face.
“你还好吗？”格兰特说，转头看着雷穆斯的脸。

“I think so.” Remus said, honestly, “But it’s weird. It’s going to be difficult, I think.”
“我想是的。”雷穆斯诚实地说，“但这很奇怪。我觉得这会很困难。”

“How long will he be here?”
“他会待多久？”

“Oh. I don’t know. A while, maybe. He’s talking about… about another war. I might need to help.”
“哦。我不知道。也许有一段时间。他在谈论……另一场战争。我可能需要帮忙。”

“Remus…”
“雷穆斯……”

“I know, I know,” Remus screwed up his face. “I’m sorry, the whole situation is… it’s a fucking nightmare, really. I need some time to think.”
“我知道，我知道，”雷穆斯皱起了脸。“对不起，整个情况……这真是一场恶梦。我需要一些时间来思考。”

“I wish I could help.” Grant said. “I wish I understood.”
“我希望我能帮忙。”格兰特说。“我希望我能理解。”

“You’re so good with Sirius.” Remus offered, “I don’t know what to say to him, he’s so… I dunno, prickly. I’m scared I’ll say something wrong and he’ll bite my head off.”
“你对小天狼星很好。”雷穆斯说，“我不知道对他说什么，他现在很……我不知道，难对付。我担心我会说错话，他会把我的头咬掉。”

“Hmm, well I have a bit of experience with those types.” Grant said, his lips curling, “Anyway, he’s obviously been through the mill. Just gotta be patient. Kind. You can’t force him to get better, I’m afraid.”
“嗯，我对这些类型有一点经验。”格兰特说，嘴角微微翘起，“不管怎样，他显然经历了很多磨难。只需要耐心。友善。恐怕你不能强迫他变好。”

* * *

Sirius slept for a very long time. Long after Grant had left for work, and Remus had eaten breakfast and marked a few exam papers. He stayed in the kitchen, but he could see the living room couch through the door, just in case.
小天狼星睡了很长时间。格兰特离开去上班后，雷穆斯吃了早餐，还批改了一些试卷。他待在厨房里，但可以透过门看到客厅的沙发，以防万一。

It was almost half past eleven when Padfoot jerked awake, and began barking loudly, leaping off the couch.
快到十一点半时，帕德弗特突然惊醒，开始大声吠叫，跳下了沙发。

“Shh!” Remus ran into the living room anxiously, “Sirius, it’s me! You’re here, you’re with me!”
“嘘！”雷穆斯焦急地跑进客厅，“小天狼星，是我！你在这里，你和我在一起！”

The dog stopped, cocked its head, then transformed back into Sirius. His eyes were wide and his jaw shadowy with stubble. He looked like a mad person. Remus tried to be patient, and kind, like Grant said. “Sorry,” he said, steadying his voice, “It’s just that we’re not allowed pets, here, and if the neighbours hear you…”
那只狗停了下来，歪着头，然后变回了小天狼星。他的眼睛睁得很大，脸颊上有胡茬，看起来像个疯子。雷穆斯试图耐心和友善，就像格兰特说的那样。“对不起，”他稳住声音说，“只是这里不允许宠物，如果邻居听见了……”

“Sorry.” Sirius looked down, embarrassed. “You’d think I’d be used to it now. Been out for a year.”
“对不起。”小天狼星低下头，显得很尴尬。“你会觉得我现在应该习惯了。我已经离开一年了。”

“It’s fine.” Remus shook his head, “Sorry I shouted.”
“没关系。”雷穆斯摇头说，“对不起，我吼了。”

Things stayed that awkward for most of the day. They went out to the garage after Sirius had eaten breakfast.
整个上午都是那种尴尬的气氛。在小天狼星吃过早餐后，他们去了车库。

The door took a few goes to heave open, and Sirius had to stay in dog form while they were out of the flat, so it fell to Remus. Still, they got in eventually, and everything was very much as they remembered. No motorbike, of course, though all the tools were still there. Sirius’s clothes and books were neatly stacked in labelled boxes, without so much as a layer of dust on them.
门好几次才被推开，而小天狼星在他们离开公寓时必须保持狗的形态，所以这份任务落在了雷穆斯身上。不过，他们最终还是进去了，一切和他们记忆中的样子一样。当然没有摩托车，不过所有工具还在。小天狼星的衣服和书籍整齐地叠放在标记好的箱子里，连一层灰尘都没有。

“Mary must have done some sort of preserving spell,” Remus commented.
“玛丽一定做了什么保养咒语，”雷穆斯评论道。

Sirius nodded vaguely, walking through the piles of relics like an ancient monk. He selected a few things to take back to the flat - or rather, for Remus to carry back. Sirius chose robes and wizard clothes, none of his muggle stuff, not even his old leather jacket, which Remus found stuffed inside a box under some records. He had to resist the urge to bury his face in it and inhale the gorgeous scent; as if the jacket had more of Sirius in it than the man standing next to him.
小天狼星含糊地点了点头，像古老的僧侣一样穿过一堆堆遗物。他挑选了一些东西带回公寓——更准确地说，是让雷穆斯带回去。小天狼星选择了长袍和巫师服，没有他的麻瓜用品，连他旧的皮夹克都没有。雷穆斯在一些唱片下的箱子里发现了它。他不得不抑制住想把脸埋在上面，吸入那迷人气味的冲动；仿佛这件夹克里包含了比他身边站着的那个男人更多的小天狼星的气息。

Back at the flat, Sirius changed into the robes at once. Remus could see why - he looked much better already, in his own things, having had a few good meals and a proper wash. His hair was a bit straggly, and still had knots in it despite the fact that he’d clearly used half a bottle of shampoo on it.
回到公寓后，小天狼星立刻换上了长袍。雷穆斯明白为什么——他穿上自己的衣服，吃过几顿好饭，洗了个彻底的澡，看起来好多了。他的头发有些蓬乱，尽管显然用了半瓶洗发水，仍然有结。

He slept again, after lunch. Remus didn’t see how, he’d only been awake a few hours. Still, despite Sirius’s inability to stay still, he exhausted easily. He curled up on the couch again, in the nest of blankets he’d created, and Remus sat beside him with the TV on very low. At least when Sirius slept he was a dog, and therefore easier to share a room with.
午餐后，他又睡着了。雷穆斯不明白怎么回事，他才醒了几个小时。不过，尽管小天狼星无法安静地待着，他很容易疲惫。他再次蜷缩在他创造的毯子窝里，而雷穆斯坐在他身边，电视声音调得很低。至少当小天狼星睡觉时，他是只狗，因此和他共处一室更容易一些。

He was grumpy, when he woke up. He squinted at the TV, then at Remus.
他醒来时很脾气不好。他眯着眼睛看着电视，然后看向雷穆斯。

“Don’t you read any more?”
“你不再读书了吗？”

“Of course I do.” Remus gestured at the bookcases either side of the fireplace, which were sagging under the weight. “TV is just background noise.”
“当然读。”雷穆斯指着壁炉两侧的书架，那些书架都因书的重量而下垂。“电视只是背景噪音。”

Sirius grunted, sitting up and straightening his clothes. He ran his fingers through his hair, and they got caught. He winced.
小天狼星发出一声闷哼，坐起身来，整理衣服。他用手指梳理头发，但卡住了。他皱起了眉头。

“Do you want to try washing it again?” Remus asked, “If you put loads of conditioner on, then comb it through, that might help?”
“你想再试着洗一次吗？”雷穆斯问道，“如果你多涂一些护发素，然后梳理一下，可能会有帮助。”

He remembered Grant telling him that about two brothers who’d come to the remand centre. They’d been neglected, and had never had their hair cut or brushed, and they were frightened of the clippers. Grant remembered Matron’s brutal buzz cuts, and he immediately promised them he wouldn’t cut their hair. He’d spent hours gently combing it through, instead, and his hands were wet and cold for so long his eczema flared up and his palms were rough and chapped for weeks.
他记得格兰特告诉他关于两个来到拘留中心的兄弟的事情。他们被忽视，从未剪过头发或梳过头发，害怕剪发器。格兰特记得护士长那残酷的剃发，他立即答应他们不会剪他们的头发。他花了几个小时轻柔地梳理他们的头发，结果手在湿冷中呆了很久，湿疹发作，手掌粗糙干裂了好几周。

Sirius seemed to appreciate the suggestion, so Remus went to run the bath. Sirius followed him. He didn’t seem to want to be left alone at all, even if he didn’t want to talk.
小天狼星似乎很感激这个建议，于是雷穆斯去准备浴缸。小天狼星跟着他。他似乎不想被留下一个人，即使他不想说话。

Remus rooted around in the medicine cabinet for a good strong comb, and some scissors, just in case. He set them on the edge of the bathtub, and stepped back. “Er… shall I leave you to it?” He asked, as the bathwater steamed gently. Sirius rubbed his arm, looking around.
雷穆斯在药柜里翻找了一把好的结实的梳子和一些剪刀，以备不时之需。他把它们放在浴缸边缘，然后退后一步。“呃……我还是让你自己来吧？”他说，浴水轻轻冒着蒸汽。小天狼星揉了揉手臂，四处张望。

“No I think I’d rather… if you don’t mind?”
“不，我想……如果你不介意的话？”

“Anything you like,” Remus said. Let him lead the way, Grant had suggested. Go with the flow. He thought about turning around as Sirius undressed, but that seemed redundant if he was staying in the room, and anyway, Sirius had no scruples about stripping off in front of him. There was nothing sensual about it; he did it in the same way he now ate with his hands, or wiped his mouth with his sleeve, or curled up tightly on the sofa; he did it because he had forgotten how to act around other people.
“随你喜欢，”雷穆斯说。让他来主导，格兰特建议过。顺其自然。他考虑了一下是否应该转身，小天狼星脱衣服时，但如果他还在房间里，这似乎没什么必要，而且小天狼星在他面前脱衣服毫无顾忌。没有任何情色的意味；他这样做就像现在用手吃东西，或者用袖子擦嘴，或者在沙发上紧紧蜷缩；他这样做是因为他忘记了如何在其他人面前表现自己。

He was so thin, so frail, his elbows jutted out like knives and his hollow ribs moved under his paper white skin. His once warm, slender wrists, which Remus had adored, were now so narrow they looked like they'd snap as he lowered himself into the bath.
他太瘦了，太虚弱了，肘部突出得像刀子一样，空洞的肋骨在他苍白的皮肤下移动。他曾经温暖而纤细的手腕，雷穆斯曾经钟爱，现在却如此狭窄，看起来像是他在低下身体时会断裂一样。

Remus pretended to be tidying the bathroom, and started folding up the flannel hanging off the side of the sink, straightening the towels slung over the radiator. He was embarrassed, he didn't want to stare. Though, to be honest, Sirius probably wouldn't notice, either way.
雷穆斯假装整理浴室，开始折叠挂在水槽边上的毛巾，整理挂在暖气上的毛巾。他感到尴尬，不想盯着看。不过，说实话，小天狼星可能也不会注意到。

Eventually, Remus sat on the closed toilet lid, crossing his legs in an effort to look nonchalant - and because the bathroom was much too small for his annoying gangly body. Sirius leaned back into the hot water, making small slow waves slop gently against the plastic sides of the tub. He closed his eyes, and tilted his head back into the water, exposing his throat, his adam’s apple protruding.
最后，雷穆斯坐在盖上的马桶盖上，交叉双腿以显得若无其事——而且因为浴室太小，不适合他那烦人的长腿。小天狼星靠在热水里，轻轻搅动水面，慢慢地在塑料浴缸的侧面溅起水波。他闭上眼睛，仰头靠在水中，露出喉咙，喉结突出。

Remus had to remember to close his mouth as Sirius resurfaced, opening his eyes and sweeping his hair back. Now it was wet, the grey had vanished, and he became suddenly younger, more recognisable.
小天狼星浮出水面时，雷穆斯不得不记得合上嘴巴，他睁开眼睛，将头发往后梳。现在头发湿了，灰色消失了，他突然变得年轻了，更加容易识别。

He started lathering his hair with the shampoo, sitting up, leaning forward. Remus watched his bony white fingers clawing through the foam, and remembered how graceful Sirius had been as a young man, how every movement was perfectly weighted, how he used to treat his own body with such tenderness. The steam from the hot water stung Remus’s eyes, and he had to blink away tears.
他开始用洗发水给头发起泡，坐起身，向前倾。雷穆斯看着他那骨瘦如柴的白色手指在泡沫中抓挠，想起了小天狼星年轻时的优雅，每一个动作都恰到好处，他曾经如此温柔地对待自己的身体。热水的蒸汽刺痛了雷穆斯的眼睛，他不得不眨眼以拭去泪水。

Sirius rinsed out the shampoo, then started on the conditioner, using loads of it, Remus would have to buy more.
小天狼星冲洗掉洗发水，然后开始使用护发素，涂了很多，雷穆斯需要去再买一些。

“We ought to make a list.” Sirius said, abruptly.
“我们应该列个清单。”小天狼星突然说。

“What?” Remus frowned.
“什么？”雷穆斯皱眉。

“A list.” Sirius said, picking up the comb. “We ought to make one. People to get in contact with, for Dumbledore.”
“清单。”小天狼星说，拿起梳子。“我们应该做一个。要联系的人，为邓布利多。”

“For Dumbledore.” Remus repeated. He suddenly felt very tired.
“为邓布利多。”雷穆斯重复道。他突然感到非常疲惫。

“Yeah, he said get in touch with the old crowd. Only my memory’s shot, so you'll have to help. The names, you know.” He tugged the comb through his knots, hard.
“是的，他说要联系老朋友。只是我的记忆力糟糕，所以你得帮忙。那些名字，你知道的。”他用力地拉梳子，梳理结。

“You really want to go right back to war, don’t you?” Remus said.
“你真的想立刻回到战争中去，对吧？”雷穆斯说。

Sirius turned and gave him a look of disbelief, and with a horrible sinking feeling Remus realised that in Sirius’s mind the war had never ended.
小天狼星转过身，用不敢置信的目光看着他，雷穆斯突然有种可怕的沮丧感，意识到在小天狼星的心目中，战争从未结束。

“Look,” Remus tried to explain, “It’s not that I don’t believe in the cause, it’s just… I remember how it went last time.”
“看，”雷穆斯试图解释，“这不是我不相信这个事业，只是……我记得上一次的经过。”

“As if I don’t!” Sirius hissed, yanking at the comb in his hair, “I haven’t been on holiday for twelve years!”
“就像我不记得一样！”小天狼星嘶嘶地说，一边用力梳理头发，“我已经十二年没休假了！”

“No, I know, but…” Remus wished he’d stop saying it like that. Twelve years . What forgiveness could there ever be, for that?
“是的，我知道，不过……”雷穆斯希望他别再那样说。十二年 。对于这点，能有什么宽恕呢？

“It's all we can do.” Sirius said, fiercely, “It's the only thing that matters.” He raised the comb again, looking as if he was about to stab himself with it, rather than groom himself. Remus couldn't stand it.
“这是我们能做的唯一事情。”小天狼星激烈地说，“这是唯一重要的事。”他再次举起梳子，看起来像是要用它刺自己，而不是梳理头发。雷穆斯无法忍受。

“Stop that,” he said, getting up. “You'll rip all your bloody hair out, come on. Let me do it.”
“别那样，”他说，站起来。“你会把自己的头发都撕掉的，来吧。让我来。”

He rolled up a towel and put it on the floor to kneel on, grabbing the comb out of Sirius's hand. Sirius looked at him warily for a moment, and Remus realised that they had not been this close yet - they had hugged, in the Shack a year ago, but that had been pure adrenaline. It had not been intimate. This was.
他卷起一条毛巾放在地上跪着，拿过小天狼星手里的梳子。小天狼星警惕地看了他一眼，雷穆斯意识到他们还没有如此亲密过——他们曾在一年前在狼屋里拥抱过，但那是纯粹的肾上腺素，并不亲密。这才是。

“May I?” Remus asked, softening his voice.
“我可以吗？”雷穆斯问，语气变得柔和。

Sirius nodded, slowly, then turned his head, so that Remus could reach. Leaning in, not too much, Remus began to work, sliding his fingers carefully through the slick black locks, gently easing the comb through in sections from the bottom up. Slowly, slowly, the knots began to loosen, giving way to that familiar old silken texture.
小天狼星缓慢地点头，然后转过头，让雷穆斯能够触及。雷穆斯轻轻靠近，开始工作，小心翼翼地用手指穿过湿漉漉的黑发，从下往上逐段梳理。渐渐地，结开始松开，露出那熟悉的光滑质感。

It was difficult work, and took a lot of patience, and the rest of the bottle of conditioner, but Remus finally felt like he was helping; he was in control and he was doing something positive. Sirius was so quiet and still the whole time; tense at first, but gradually relaxing, bit by bit - Remus could practically see his tendons slackening.
这是一项艰难的工作，需要很大的耐心，以及用完了剩下的护发素，但雷穆斯终于感觉到自己在帮忙；他掌握了控制，并做了一些积极的事情。小天狼星一直非常安静，最初有些紧张，但逐渐放松，一点一点地——雷穆斯几乎能看到他的肌腱在放松。

Once he was finished, Remus leaned back to survey his work, the muscles in his back ached like they were on fire, but it was worth it. He stood up, shakily, a hand on the sink. Sirius raised his hands, moved them gingerly over his head, fingers skimming the smooth surface.
完成后，雷穆斯靠后坐下，检查自己的工作，背部的肌肉像着火一样疼痛，但这是值得的。他颤抖着站起来，一只手撑在水槽上。小天狼星抬起双手，轻柔地移动在头顶，手指滑过光滑的表面。

“Thanks.”
“谢谢。”

“Any time.” Remus smiled, sitting back on the loo seat.
“随时可以。”雷穆斯笑着，坐回马桶盖上。

Sirius rinsed his hair a few more times, then climbed out and dried himself, getting dressed again. Remus expected him to look at himself in the mirror, but he didn't, he purposefully avoided it, keeping his eyes down.
小天狼星再冲洗了几次头发，然后爬出浴缸，擦干身体，再次穿上衣服。雷穆斯期待他会看镜子里的自己，但他没有，他故意避免了这一点，眼睛低垂。

Back in the living room, Remus made them tea and some cheese on toast, because he wanted Sirius to eat as often as possible. He expected Sirius to fall asleep again, but he didn't. He took some paper from Remus’s pile of exams, and flipped it over, picking up a biro too.
回到客厅，雷穆斯为他们准备了茶和奶酪吐司，因为他希望小天狼星能尽可能多吃点东西。他原以为小天狼星会再睡一觉，但他没有。他从雷穆斯的试卷堆里拿出一张纸，把它翻过来，还拿了一支圆珠笔。

“Ok,” he said, “Moody, obviously, top of the list - after he's recovered of course, wait til you hear what happened to him at Hogwarts! Then the Weasley's, and Mary…”
“好了，”他说，“摩地，显然，排在首位——当然是在他康复之后，等着听听他在霍格沃茨发生了什么！然后是韦斯莱一家，还有玛丽……”

“No, not Mary.” Remus said. “She won't… she's settled down, she's got kids. And the Weasley's, they've got seven kids, Sirius, you can't ask that of people…”
“不，玛丽不行。”雷穆斯说。“她不会……她已经安顿下来，有了孩子。还有韦斯莱一家，他们有七个孩子，小天狼星，你不能这样要求他们……”

“I don't need to.” Sirius said, sharply. “They'll do what's right.”
“我不需要。”小天狼星尖锐地说。“他们会做正确的事。”

“I can't see it that way.” Remus said, “All I can see is the cost of another war…”
“我看不到这样。”雷穆斯说，“我只看到另一场战争的代价……”

“We don't have a choice!”
“我们没有选择！”

“I know, I know, I just want us to think , before we--”
“我知道，我知道，只是希望我们在——之前考虑清楚。”

What’s happened to you, Remus?! This isn’t like you. You’re supposed to be a Gryffindor!”
你怎么了，雷穆斯？！这不像你。你应该是个格兰芬多！”

That struck a nerve. How dare he!?
这戳中了痛点。他怎么敢！？

“Quite a bit has happened to me, actually.” Remus said, acidly. “I lost everyone I ever cared about in the last war, so forgive me if I’m not thrilled about marching straight into battle again. I’m not twenty-one any more.”
“其实发生了不少事。”雷穆斯酸涩地说。“我在上一场战争中失去了我关心的所有人，所以请原谅我如果我对再次直接投入战斗不感到兴奋。我已经不再二十一岁了。”

Sirius shook his head, still unable to comprehend. “We owe it to them! To Lily and James!”
小天狼星摇了摇头，仍然无法理解。“我们欠他们的！给莉莉和詹姆斯！”

“I don’t owe them anything!” Remus shouted, his face burning with anger, “Maybe you feel like you do, ‘secret keeper’, but if you recall, I wasn’t fucking consulted on that one!”
“我什么都不欠他们！”雷穆斯大声喊道，脸上充满了愤怒，“也许你觉得你欠他们，‘秘密守护者’，但如果你还记得，我他妈的没有被咨询过！”

He didn't know why he said it; it just all came tumbling out before he could stop himself. He hasn't realised how angry he really was, until that moment. Clearly Sirius hadn't, either,
他不知道自己为什么这么说；这些话在他能阻止自己之前全都涌了出来。他直到那一刻才意识到自己有多生气。显然，小天狼星也没有意识到。

“Moony--”
“小天狼星——”

“Don’t you dare call me ‘Moony’! Don’t act like we’re still… like nothing’s changed! Like everything’s fine, and I'm just going to do everything you say!”
“别你敢叫我‘小天狼星’！别装作我们仍然……像什么都没变一样！像一切都没问题，我就会照你说的做！”

He stood up, he needed to get out, he needed a break. He turned on his heel, heading for the door.
他站起来，需要离开一下，他需要休息一下。他转过身，朝门口走去。

“No, Remus, please!” Sirius cried out, his voice so taut and strangled, it frightened Remus. He turned back. Sirius stared up at him from the couch, so small and wide-eyed. “Please don't leave me alone.” He said.
“不，雷穆斯，请！”小天狼星喊道，他的声音紧绷而压抑，让雷穆斯感到害怕。他转过身来。小天狼星从沙发上抬头看着他，显得如此渺小和惊恐。“请不要把我一个人留下。”他说。

Remus relented, his temper draining away to nothing. He returned to his armchair, and sat down again. He pursed his lips. He rubbed his eyes. “I won’t,” he said, wearily. “I'm not going anywhere.”
雷穆斯妥协了，他的怒气消失殆尽。他回到自己的扶手椅上，再次坐下。他抿了抿嘴唇，揉了揉眼睛。“我不会的，”他说，疲倦地说。“我不会离开的。”

 

Chapter 186: Summer 1995: GrantA long time ago

I watched him struggle with the sea.

I knew that he was drowning,

And I brought him into me

Now today

Come morning light

He sails away

After one last night

I let him go.

 

Mr Chapman,

We are very pleased to extend the following offer of employment to you on behalf of Brighton & Hove City Council:

Social Worker - Child and Youth Welfare

Please see the attached brochure for details on your salary and working hours. You have thirty working days to respond to this offer, by either post or telephone.

We look forward to hearing from you.

A.P. Green
Head of Social Services, Brighton & Hove.

 

Grant read the letter three times, just to make sure.

Well. He really ought to be happy. Thrilled. This was amazing news. News worth celebrating. It was one way out of the mess he currently found himself in, anyway.

 

He shook his head, feeling terrible for thinking of Remus’s life a ‘mess’. Even if that was a little bit true.

 

 嗯。他确实应该感到高兴。兴奋。这真是个好消息。值得庆祝的消息。无论如何，这是一种摆脱他当前困境的方式。

He shook his head, feeling terrible for thinking of Remus’s life a ‘mess’. Even if that was a little bit true.
他摇了摇头，觉得把雷穆斯的生活称为“混乱”实在太糟糕了。即便这有点真实。

He had gone down for the interview a few weeks ago, telling Remus he was working late. Not that he wanted to hide anything from Remus - more like he just didn’t want to jinx things. Grant wasn’t a very lucky person, generally; stuff like this never, ever happened to him.
几周前，他去面试了，告诉雷穆斯他工作到很晚。并不是他想隐瞒什么，而是他不想给事情带来厄运。Grant通常不是一个很幸运的人；这种事情从来没有发生在他身上。

Grant didn’t believe in god, or guardian angels, or Buddha or Brahman - or anything other than his own willpower, but something about this job offer smacked of divine intervention. This was his dream job, after all. Perhaps this was the sign he was waiting for - as if old ex-boyfriends returning from prison wasn’t enough of an omen.
Grant不相信上帝、守护天使、佛陀或梵天——或者任何其他东西，除了自己的意志力，但这份工作邀请似乎有着神圣的介入。这毕竟是他的梦想工作。也许这就是他一直等待的信号——仿佛旧情人从监狱回来还不够预兆。

He’d been toying with the idea of moving for years. Grant loved London; it would always be in his blood, but they were both in their mid-thirties now, and maybe it was time for a change. He wanted to get Remus out to the countryside, to fresh air and sea and space. A fresh start, away from the miserable little flat. So when the position came up, and Grant’s manager mentioned it to him, he leapt at the chance.
他已经考虑搬家好几年了。Grant爱伦敦；它永远在他的血液里，但他们俩现在都三十多岁了，也许是时候改变一下了。他想把雷穆斯带到乡村，去享受新鲜的空气、海洋和空间。一个全新的开始，远离那令人痛苦的小公寓。所以当这个职位出现时，Grant的经理提到它时，他抓住了这个机会。

Of course; that was all before Sirius came back.
当然；那一切都发生在小天狼星回来之前。

Grant re-read the letter again, from the top. He stared at his name, in official black and white printed text. A letter with my name on it, and it’s not even a court summons, he joked to himself. He wished he could show his dickhead grandfather. Show him what nancy-boy delinquents can amount to when they put their minds to it.
Grant再次从头读了这封信。他盯着自己的名字，上面印着官方的黑白文本。他自嘲地说：“一封写着我名字的信，而且还不是法院传票。”他希望能把这件事告诉他的混蛋祖父。让他看看那些被称为“娘娘腔”的小混混当他们用心做事时能有什么成就。

He was proud of himself, and no matter what the situation was right now, he knew Remus would be proud of him too. He wished he could tell him straight away, but Remus was out, and Grant was hiding in the bedroom from Sirius.
他为自己感到自豪，无论现在的情况如何，他知道雷穆斯也会为他感到骄傲。他希望能立刻告诉雷穆斯，但雷穆斯出去了，Grant正躲在卧室里躲避小天狼星。

Grant was supposed to be keeping an eye on him, he’d promised, but as soon as Remus was out the door, Sirius had said something nasty about not needing a ‘nursemaid’ (bloody hell, how posh was he?!) and turned into a dog again.
Grant本该留意雷穆斯，他已经承诺了，但雷穆斯一出门，小天狼星就说了一些恶意的话，说不需要“保姆”（天哪，他怎么这么高贵？！），然后又变成了一只狗。

It was so painfully obvious that Black hated Grant’s guts, so hiding out in the bedroom felt like the best solution.
小天狼星明显讨厌Grant的肠子，所以躲在卧室里感觉是最好的解决办法。

He’d have to wait for Remus to get home, then, to break the news. He hoped it wouldn’t be too long, but he had no idea, really. Remus had gone to some sort of meeting, and hadn’t given Grant any details.
所以他得等雷穆斯回家后才能传达这个消息。他希望不会等太久，但他真的不知道。雷穆斯去参加了某种会议，没有给Grant任何细节。

He’d talked to Sirius about it, though - at length. They muttered together in the living room, thinking Grant wouldn’t notice. The pitch of their whispering swung wildly to and fro - one moment angry staccato hissing, the next soothing, low apologies. Their body language was the same - Grant learnt quickly that the important stuff between Sirius and Remus was the stuff neither of them said out loud. It was all in looks, gestures, tilted heads and raised eyebrows. Impossible for an outsider to keep up with - and Grant felt very much the outsider. He had never known two people could be simultaneously so angry with each other and so much in love.
不过，他和小天狼星谈过这个问题——很详细。他们在客厅里窃窃私语，以为Grant不会注意到。他们耳语的语调时而愤怒的短促嘶嘶声，时而抚慰的低声道歉。他们的肢体语言也是如此——Grant很快就学会了，小天狼星和雷穆斯之间重要的事情都是他们未曾说出口的。这一切都体现在眼神、姿势、倾斜的头和挑高的眉毛上。对外人来说，简直不可能跟上——Grant感到自己确实是个外人。他从未知道两个人可以同时对彼此如此愤怒和深爱。

And it was love. Without a doubt.
而且那确实是爱。毫无疑问。

Grant got a sick feeling in his stomach. He’d been ignoring it for days.
Grant感到胃部一阵恶心。他已经忽略了好几天。

Remus had been different for a while, but until that bloody black dog showed up Grant had thought there might be hope for recovery. A bit more time, a bit of space, some distance from all that darkness. Grant would pull Remus back from the edge; he had done it before, he could do it again.
雷穆斯有一段时间变得不同，但直到那只该死的黑狗出现，Grant才觉得可能还有康复的希望。再多一点时间，再多一点空间，远离那些黑暗。Grant会把雷穆斯从悬崖边缘拉回来；他以前做过，他可以再做一次。

But now it looked impossible - Remus did not want things back the way they were. He hadn’t said it - maybe he didn’t know it - but it was very obvious to Grant.
但现在看起来是不可行的——雷穆斯不想让事情恢复原状。他没有说出来——也许他自己都不知道——但这对Grant来说非常明显。

Look, ok, Grant knew he was not the brightest bulb in the box. Not as clever as Remus, anyway. Probably not as clever as Sirius. That had never bothered him much, because after all, he couldn’t be anyone but himself, and he had plenty else going for him. He worked hard, and he cared about people, and people cared about him, and those things were ingredients for a very happy life, in Grant’s opinion.
看，好吧，Grant知道自己不是最聪明的。他比雷穆斯聪明的多。可能也比小天狼星聪明。这从来没有困扰过他，因为毕竟，他只能做自己，他还有很多其他的优点。他工作努力，关心别人，人们也关心他，这些在Grant看来是幸福生活的要素。

So, he wasn’t a genius, but he did know some things. He liked to think that at the very least, he knew when it was time to make a graceful exit.
所以，他不是天才，但他确实知道一些事情。他喜欢认为，至少，他知道什么时候该优雅地退出。

Grant loved Remus very much. He’d probably loved him ever since that first day, twenty years ago, when the lanky, exhausted, skittish teenager had loped into the dorm room at St Edmund’s.
Grant非常爱雷穆斯。他可能从二十年前那个瘦长、疲惫、不安的青少年第一次走进圣埃德蒙宿舍的那一天开始就爱他了。

He was so quiet, and so closed up, even though there was clearly a universe inside of him. Remus was never the same person twice; he was jaded and world-weary one moment, naive and blushing the next. He was bubbling with rage and love at the same time, and most of the time he let love win.
他如此安静，如此封闭，即使他内心显然有一个宇宙。雷穆斯从来不是同一个人；有时他疲惫不堪，厌世，有时则天真而脸红。他同时充满愤怒和爱意，大多数时候他让爱赢。

Grant liked to think he’d had a bit of a hand in that. Especially over the past few years - Grant had worked hard to keep the softest parts of Remus safe. And he had; he’d done a good job. He’d taken care of him, until Remus didn’t really need taking care of anymore. It was perhaps time to let go.
Grant喜欢认为他在其中起了一些作用。特别是在过去的几年里——Grant努力保护雷穆斯最柔软的部分。而且他确实做得很好。他照顾了他，直到雷穆斯真的不再需要被照顾。也许是时候放手了。

He still didn’t want to just hand him back like a borrowed book.
他还是不愿意就这样像还书一样把他交还。

Grant had said goodbye to plenty of people over the course of his short yet colourful life, and not one of them had meant a thing, until Remus. Grant knew how pathetic that sounded. Nearing thirty-six, and only one real relationship - only one true friendship.
Grant在他短暂而多彩的生命中告别了很多人，而他们中没有一个人曾经意味着什么，直到雷穆斯。Grant知道这听起来多么可悲。快到三十六岁了，只有一段真正的关系——只有一段真挚的友谊。

Whatever happened, they would stay friends - there was no question of that. But Grant knew he had to be practical, and he had to look after himself, for once. Remus had always belonged to another world; that was partly what made him so attractive.
无论发生什么，他们都会保持朋友关系——这毫无疑问。但Grant知道他必须务实一次，他必须照顾自己。雷穆斯一直属于另一个世界；这部分也是他如此吸引人的原因。

The time had come for Remus to go back where he belonged, and though Grant knew that for a while the absence would hurt, it was completely necessary.
是时候让雷穆斯回到他应该去的地方了，尽管Grant知道，缺席会让他受伤一段时间，但这是完全必要的。

It reminded him of that Suzanne Vega song - Grant was never one for reading too much into lyrics, not like Remus - he didn’t have a poetic soul. But when the Solitude Standing album came out, it had been all over the radio, and Grant quite liked it - he always meant to buy the album, but never got around to it. She had a haunting voice, and this one particular tune was ghostly and strange.
这让他想起了苏珊·维加（Suzanne Vega）的一首歌——Grant从来不是那种喜欢过度解读歌词的人，不像雷穆斯——他没有诗意的灵魂。但是当Solitude Standing专辑发行时，它在广播中到处播放，Grant非常喜欢——他一直想买这张专辑，但一直没来得及。她的声音如同幽灵，这首特别的歌曲也是如此诡异。

Then Remus had told him what it was about, and he hated it.
然后雷穆斯告诉他这首歌的含义，他讨厌它。

He didn’t usually like fairy tales - having recognised his sexuality at the age of six, the idea of brave knights rescuing damsels in distress had never inspired him much. But something about Calypso really struck a nerve.
他通常不喜欢童话故事——因为在六岁时就认清了自己的性取向，勇敢的骑士拯救困境中的少女的想法从未给他带来过启发。但《Calypso》中的某些东西真的触动了他。

He knew he wasn’t a siren, sitting on the rocks jiggling his tits at passing sailors, but he knew Remus. He knew Remus inside out. He’d seen the change in him, since Sirius came back.
他知道自己不是坐在岩石上对经过的水手摇摆的海妖，但他了解雷穆斯。他非常了解雷穆斯。他看到了雷穆斯自小天狼星回来后的变化。

At first, Remus had clung to Grant as his protector, which made sense; a bit of regression was probably to be expected, and Grant had always done his best to be solid ground for Remus. But after the stress of the first few days had passed, Remus and Sirius had both relaxed a little bit, and everything was different. So different it was shocking.
最初，雷穆斯紧紧依赖Grant作为保护者，这很有道理；有些倒退是可以预见的，Grant一直尽力成为雷穆斯坚实的依靠。但在最初几天的压力过去后，雷穆斯和小天狼星都稍微放松了一些，一切变得不同了。变化如此之大，令人震惊。

Grant hadn’t really known what their relationship was like when they were young, but he caught glimpses of it now. The way Remus stared at Sirius, as if he was the most gorgeous creature on earth. The heat in his eyes, the way his tongue played in the corner of his mouth, like he was daydreaming something utterly filthy. Remus had never looked at Grant like that, not really.
Grant当年并不知道他们的关系是什么样的，但他现在捕捉到了一些细节。雷穆斯看着小天狼星的方式，就像他是地球上最迷人的生物。眼中的热情，舌头在嘴角玩弄的方式，仿佛他在幻想一些极其肮脏的东西。雷穆斯从未如此看过Grant，至少不是真的。

And Sirius lit up, when Remus spoke to him.
而当雷穆斯和小天狼星交谈时，小天狼星眼中闪烁的光芒。

Yes, they were obviously still in love, and it was not the same kind of love Grant and Remus had. He didn’t know if it was better or not, but he could practically feel the conflict tearing Remus apart. He didn’t want to tear Remus apart; he never had. He still wanted to keep him safe.
是的，他们显然仍然相爱，这种爱和Grant与雷穆斯之间的爱不同。他不知道这是否更好，但他几乎可以感觉到冲突正在撕裂雷穆斯。他不想撕裂雷穆斯；他从未想过。他仍然想保护他。

And there was Sirius himself - prim and poisonous, lurking like a spider all the time, glaring daggers whenever Grant entered the room. He made his feelings perfectly clear, and it made Grant indignant, made him want to fight harder to keep Remus.
而小天狼星本身——端庄而毒辣，像蜘蛛一样潜伏，总是在Grant进房间时瞪着他。他明确表达了自己的感受，这让Grant感到愤慨，让他更想努力留住雷穆斯。

But that wasn’t up to Grant, any more. Remus was going somewhere Grant couldn’t follow him. They’d reached a crossroads, and it was all very clear. Maybe the letter really was an omen.
但这不再由Grant决定。雷穆斯要去一个Grant无法跟随的地方。他们已经到了一个十字路口，一切都很清楚。也许这封信确实是一个预兆。

He conjured up the image he’d been toying with - of him and Remus, in a house by the sea, reading books and eating breakfast in bed and going for walks into town. Getting older, making new friends. If they had a big enough house, they could begin fostering - Grant had been interested in doing that for years; he wanted to take care of kids no one else wanted, and if he was going to be a social worker then he’d be a perfect candidate.
他想象了自己和雷穆斯的画面——在海边的一所房子里，读书、吃床上早餐、去镇上散步。变老，交新朋友。如果他们有足够大的房子，他们可以开始寄养——Grant对这件事感兴趣多年；他想照顾那些无人关心的孩子，如果他要成为一名社会工作者，那么他将是一个完美的候选人。

He let the fantasy wash over him one last time, and then he began to dismantle it. Because deep down Grant knew that Remus would never have left London, anyway, and Remus would never want to foster children - he’d be too afraid he’d hurt them on a full moon. That future had always been a bit of wishful thinking; it was more about Grant than Remus.
他最后一次让幻想涌上心头，然后开始拆解它。因为Grant内心深处知道，雷穆斯无论如何都不会离开伦敦，雷穆斯也不会想要寄养孩子——他太害怕在满月时会伤害他们了。那个未来一直有些像是空想；更多是关于Grant而不是雷穆斯。

It was time to stop worrying about Remus, and what Remus needed. That wasn’t his responsibility any more. Perhaps there would be someone else for Grant - he hoped so, he would never stop looking. Perhaps someone would want to keep him safe, for a change. Stranger things happened at sea.
是时候停止担心雷穆斯和雷穆斯的需求了。这不再是他的责任了。也许会有其他人出现——他希望如此，他会一直寻找。也许会有人愿意保护他，换个方式。海上发生的事情比这更奇怪。

The decision was made. Grant wrote a formal response, accepting the job offer. He’d post it on his way out.
决定已经做出。Grant写了正式的回应，接受了工作邀请。他会在离开时寄出它。

He began to pack quietly, hoping that Remus wouldn’t come home until he was finished. There was so much to do - but at the same time, not a lot. Grant found himself surprised by just how easily the plan came together. He had his own bank account, and he didn’t have any stake in the flat - he could stay at his aunt’s pub down in Hove until he found his own place to live. He even had friends in Brighton, from when he’d lived there as a kid. Easy peasy lemon-squeezy.
他开始安静地打包，希望雷穆斯在他完成之前不要回家。有很多事情要做——但同时，又不多。Grant对计划如此顺利地展开感到惊讶。他有自己的银行账户，对公寓没有任何权益——他可以住在他姑姑在Hove的酒吧里，直到找到自己的住所。他甚至在布莱顿有朋友，是他小时候住在那里时认识的。简单得不能再简单了。

So once he’d packed, he’d just need to say goodbye. He hoped he could say it the right way, and not sound bitter or self-pitying. He hoped Remus would understand that Grant would always be there if he needed him; he’d come running in a heartbeat.
所以，一旦他打包完成，他只需要说再见。他希望他能以正确的方式说再见，不要听起来苦涩或自怜。他希望雷穆斯明白，Grant会永远在他需要的时候在那里；他会在一瞬间跑去。

At the same time he hoped that Remus would not need him. He hoped that he was leaving him in safe hands.
同时，他希望雷穆斯不会需要他。他希望自己把雷穆斯留在了安全的手中。

Finished packing, Grant sat on the bed. He could hear the TV in the other room, up a bit too loud. Sirius left it on all night, sometimes, and it woke Grant up. But if he went through to turn it off, that hideous black dog would wake up and start growling at him in the dark. Probably a trauma thing; Grant didn’t blame Sirius, but he wished it didn’t have to manifest like that.
打包完成后，Grant坐在床上。他能听到另一间房里的电视声音有点儿太大了。小天狼星有时整晚开着电视，这让Grant醒来。但如果他过去关掉它，那只可怕的黑狗会在黑暗中醒来，对他咆哮。这可能是创伤反应；Grant不怪小天狼星，但他希望不必以这种方式表现出来。

Could he really trust a man like that to take care of anyone? Grant’s heart ached as he imagined Remus - sweet, serious, sensitive Remus - being treated like a mental punching bag. He would just put up with it, Grant could tell; Remus felt so guilty about Sirius’s imprisonment that he was willing to take all sorts of abuse for it. But that wasn’t right.
他真的能相信这样一个人去照顾任何人吗？Grant的心痛如绞，他想象着雷穆斯——甜美、认真、敏感的雷穆斯——被当作心理出气筒。他能看出来，雷穆斯会忍受这些；雷穆斯对小天狼星的监禁感到内疚，以至于愿意忍受各种虐待。但这不对。

Grant stood up. He had to do one more thing, then, before he could leave.
Grant站了起来。他还有一件事要做，然后才能离开。

He had to talk to Sirius.
他必须和小天狼星谈谈。

Chapter 187: Summer 1995: SiriusWell, my friends are gone and my hair is grey

I ache in the places where I used to play

And I'm crazy for love.

But I'm not coming on.

I'm just paying my rent every day in the Tower of Song.

 Sirius sat curled up on the couch, his arms around his legs. He was watching television. It was a bizarre muggle invention - a bit like the cinemas he’d been to in his youth, only smaller… oh no, oh no … that brought back a memory of James. That summer they’d gone to see the same film every day, and met those muggle girls. Had it been summer? Or Christmas? It might have been raining, and someone punched him. James or Remus? Surely Remus; James was never violent, even when Sirius really deserved it.

小天狼星蜷缩在沙发上，双臂抱住双腿。他在看电视。这是一个奇怪的麻瓜发明——有点像他年轻时去过的电影院，只是更小一点……哦不，哦不……这让他想起了詹姆斯。那个夏天他们每天去看同一部电影，还遇到了那些麻瓜女孩。是夏天吗？还是圣诞节？可能在下雨，有人打了他一拳。詹姆斯还是雷穆斯？肯定是雷穆斯；詹姆斯从不暴力，即使小天狼星真的很配受罚。

Sirius shut his eyes to drown out the cold, cruel voices in his head which wanted to drag him back through time, back to the very worst moments. He thought he could taste blood, but when he opened his eyes again, all he saw was the living room, and the silly talking muggle box.
小天狼星闭上眼睛，试图驱散脑海中那些冰冷、残酷的声音，它们想把他拖回过去，回到那些最糟糕的时刻。他觉得自己能尝到血腥味，但当他再次睁开眼睛时，他看到的只是客厅，还有那个傻乎乎的说话的麻瓜盒子。

It was his living room. Or it had been, once. It looked different, and Sirius had a hard time working out whether it was different, or he was just remembering wrong. The walls hadn’t been repainted, the fireplace was there. It didn’t stink of cigarette ash anymore, but there was still a burn mark in the carpet under the windowsill - had that been there before? Or had it happened in the years between?
这是他的客厅。或者曾经是。看起来有些不同，小天狼星很难分辨是客厅不同了，还是他记错了。墙壁没有重新粉刷，壁炉还在。空气中不再有烟灰的味道，但窗台下的地毯上仍然有一个烧痕——以前就有吗？还是在这些年中出现的？

The TV was the worst change; the most noticeable. Sirius had a strong memory of arguing against having one, a long time ago. Noisy, ugly muggle light-boxes. He still thought it was awful, but somehow he couldn’t bring himself to stop watching it. It distracted him. It was a break from thinking; from remembering.
电视是最糟糕的变化；最明显的变化。小天狼星清楚记得很久以前曾争论过是否要有电视。嘈杂、丑陋的麻瓜光箱。他仍然认为它很糟糕，但不知为何他无法让自己停止看电视。这分散了他的注意力。这是一个摆脱思考和回忆的休息。

He had spent too much of his life remembering. Turning over events, over mistakes and half understood conversations. Sifting through it all again and again, until everything in his head was shaken loose in tiny fragments, no structure or narrative. He didn't want to sit and think anymore. He wanted to act. He wanted to do. And no one would let him.
他花了太多的时间在回忆中。翻来覆去地思考事件、错误和半懂的对话。一次又一次地筛选所有内容，直到他脑海中的一切都被打散成微小的碎片，没有结构或叙事。他不想再坐着思考了。他想要行动。他想要做事。但没有人允许他这样做。

He huffed, shifting position, tightening his grip on the arm of the couch. Remus had been invited to a meeting, and Sirius had been told to stay at home with the muggle. It would have been fine if he'd gone as Padfoot, he knew it would have, but no one would listen. They were treating him like a loose cannon, like someone who needed to be contained . As if he hadn't spent a whole year alone, looking out for himself, without any help from anyone.
他嘟囔着，换了个姿势，紧握着沙发的扶手。雷穆斯被邀请参加一个会议，而小天狼星被告知要留在家里和麻瓜待在一起。如果他以Padfoot的身份去，他知道一切都会好的，但没有人愿意听。他们把他当成一个脱缰的炮弹，需要被控制。就好像他没有独自度过整整一年，靠自己照顾自己，没有任何人的帮助。

He wasn't going to be treated like a kid. He wasn't going to let them. Hadn't he earned his place?
他不打算被当作孩子对待。他不打算让他们这样做。他不是已经赢得了自己的位置吗？

But Moony - Remus, he had given Sirius that pained, pleading look, and it shut him up. He hated making Remus uncomfortable, it made him worried he would never get better. He knew he wasn't right in the head, he knew he was going about things all wrong, and that he was not himself. But Sirius had hoped a year would be enough. He was out, now, he was free, everyone who mattered finally knew the truth. It should make a difference. He should be normal again, by now.
但Moony——雷穆斯，他给了小天狼星那种痛苦、恳求的眼神，这让他闭嘴。他讨厌让雷穆斯感到不舒服，这让他担心自己永远不会好起来。他知道自己脑袋不对劲，他知道自己处理事情的方式全错了，而且他不是自己。但小天狼星希望一年足够了。他现在出来了，他是自由的，所有重要的人终于知道了真相。这应该会有所改变。他现在应该恢复正常了。

Remus wasn't helping, Sirius thought, darkly. How could he get his head straight, when everything was so weird? When Remus, his only friend left, could barely look at him without wincing, could barely speak to him without trailing off, glancing away. And the boyfriend. Sirius wondered how quickly that had happened, how soon the muggle had wormed his way in. Infected Remus with his mundanity; made his Moony quiet and cautious. No better than a muggle himself.
小天狼星黑暗地想着，雷穆斯并没有帮助。他怎么能理清头绪，当一切都如此奇怪？当雷穆斯，他唯一剩下的朋友，几乎无法看着他而不面露痛苦，几乎无法与他说话而不支支吾吾，眼神游离。还有那个男朋友。小天狼星想知道这发生得有多快，麻瓜是怎么快速钻进来的。让雷穆斯感染了麻瓜的平凡；让他的Moony变得安静和谨慎。简直和麻瓜没有什么区别。

It was like a light in Remus had dimmed. Sirius looked for signs of the old Moony, but there was none of that wicked, mischievous energy, the blistering strength of Remus Lupin when he had an exciting plan.
就像雷穆斯身上的光芒黯淡了。小天狼星寻找旧Moony的迹象，但没有那种邪恶、顽皮的能量，没有雷穆斯·卢平在有激动计划时那种炽热的力量。

It had taken Sirius ages to convince Remus just to go to the meeting. In the end, he had the impression Remus only went as a favour to him; to keep him calm. That was fine, as long as he went. And when he got back, he would tell Sirius everything, Sirius would make him. It was the least Remus could do.
小天狼星花了很长时间说服雷穆斯去参加会议。最后，他觉得雷穆斯只是为了帮他才去的；让他平静下来。这样就好，只要他去了。当他回来时，他会告诉小天狼星一切，小天狼星会逼迫他。这是雷穆斯能做的最少的事情。

Remus would come around. He would see there was no other way. He would want to do it for Harry.
雷穆斯会慢慢接受的。他会明白别无选择。他会为了哈利愿意这样做。

Sirius couldn't help smiling to himself, thinking about Harry. That incredible, brilliant, brave kid. James would be so proud…
小天狼星忍不住对自己微笑，想到哈利。那个令人难以置信、聪明、勇敢的孩子。詹姆斯一定会非常骄傲……

James, James I'm so sorry….
詹姆斯，詹姆斯，我很抱歉……

He shuddered, shut his eyes again, bracing himself against the cold. He wanted Remus so badly. He didn't want to be alone, not again, please...
他打了个寒颤，再次闭上眼睛，抵御寒冷。他非常想要雷穆斯。他不想再孤单，请不要再这样……

“Orright?” Grant, sauntered the room as if to remind Sirius that he was not alone at all. Grant smiled at him cheerfully as he came in. Sirius watched him warily. Always bloody smiling. Weirdo.
“还好吗？”格兰特悠闲地走进房间，好像要提醒小天狼星他并不孤单。格兰特进来时笑容满面。小天狼星警惕地看着他。总是笑得该死。真怪。

“Good afternoon,” Sirius replied, deliberately accentuating his annunciation to counter Grant’s horrific butchered English.
“小下午好，”小天狼星回答道，故意强调他的发音，以反击格兰特糟糕的英语。

Sirius had spent no time whatsoever with muggles, even before Azkaban, and found them confusing at best; like an alien species. And he hated Grant’s cheerfulness with every inch of his being.
小天狼星在阿兹卡班之前也没有和麻瓜待过，发现他们充其量也只是令人困惑；像是外星人。他对格兰特的快乐感到无比厌恶。

“Feelin’ better?”
“感觉好点了吗？”

Sirius grunted noncommittally. He didn’t see that he owed any kind of explanation to this man. He tolerated him, for Remus’s sake, but that was it.
小天狼星发出不置可否的哼声。他不认为自己对这个人有任何解释的义务。他为了雷穆斯的缘故忍受他，但就这样了。

“Good to hear,” Grant nodded, dimples in his cheeks.
“听到这个很好，”格兰特点了点头，脸颊上出现了酒窝。

Sirius thought he must be incredibly stupid.
小天狼星认为他一定非常愚蠢。

Wipe that inane grin off your face! barked the spectre of Walpurga Black.
擦掉你那愚蠢的笑容！沃尔普加·布莱克的幽灵吼道。

Sirius remembered Grant as a teenager, and he hadn’t even been that good looking then. Fifteen years hadn’t improved on his hairline or his skin. Sirius had no idea what Remus was still doing with Grant at all, and if he was stupid as well as plain looking, then Sirius was even more baffled as to why Moony would want him around.
小天狼星记得格兰特是个青少年时，他当时甚至都不怎么好看。十五年没有改善他的发际线或皮肤。小天狼星完全不知道雷穆斯还和格兰特在一起是为了什么，如果他又愚蠢又平凡，那么小天狼星更加困惑为什么Moony会想让他在身边。

The Remus he knew - his Remus would never suffer a fool.
他认识的雷穆斯——他的雷穆斯永远不会忍受愚蠢的人。

“When he gets back,” Grant was saying, now, still cheerful, still smiling, showing crooked teeth and a white scar in the corner of his mouth, “I’ll go.”
“等他回来，”格兰特现在还在说，依旧愉快，依旧微笑，露出歪斜的牙齿和嘴角的白色伤疤，“我就走。”

“Oh, ok.” Sirius shrugged. He searched for something to say, “...we need milk.”
“哦，好吧。”小天狼星耸耸肩。他找了找话题，“……我们需要牛奶。”

“No,” Grant chuckled, shaking his head lightly. He sat on the coffee table, directly opposite Sirius - so close their knees almost touched - and looked him in the eye, “I’m not popping out to the shops - I mean I’m leaving.”
“没有，”格兰特轻笑着摇摇头。他坐在咖啡桌上，直接对着小天狼星——他们的膝盖几乎碰在一起——直视着他的眼睛，“我不是去商店——我是说我要离开。”

“What?” Sirius frowned, “Why? Did Remus tell you to? Because it wasn’t my idea.”
“什么？”小天狼星皱眉，“为什么？雷穆斯让你这样做的？因为这不是我的主意。”

“It’s my idea,” Grant said, no longer smiling. He had tired eyes, and Sirius realised that though Grant was smiling, he wasn’t happy. He was very, very sad. Sirius didn’t know what to do about it; he had his own problems.
“这是我的主意，”格兰特说道，不再微笑。他的眼神疲惫，小天狼星意识到尽管格兰特在微笑，他并不开心。他非常非常伤心。小天狼星不知道该怎么办；他自己也有问题。

Grant kept talking, “I realised it a while ago. When he came back from the school, all shook up from seeing you again. I think I must’ve known then. Should ‘ave called time, but I couldn’t just leave him alone...”
格兰特继续说，“我早就意识到了。当他从学校回来时，被见到你搞得很震惊。我想我那时就应该知道。应该早点说，但我不能就这样离开他……”

“Look, I don’t know what you think--”
“听着，我不知道你怎么想——”

“I was only ever looking after him for you,” Grant said, raising a hand to keep Sirius quiet, “I was never it for him. That’s been you, all these years.”
“我只是为了你照顾他，”格兰特说，抬手让小天狼星安静，“我从来不是为了他。这是你，这些年来一直是你。”

“And yet here you are.” Sirius muttered. He drew his knees back up, closing inwards. He wanted Grant to just go away, if he was leaving; get lost. He’d have liked to transform into Padfoot, but he knew it wouldn’t help matters and he’d promised Remus not to.
“而你现在还在这里。”小天狼星低声说道。他把膝盖收回，蜷缩起来。他希望格兰特离开，如果他要走的话；快走。他本来想变成Padfoot，但知道这样做不会有帮助，而且他答应了雷穆斯不这样做。

“See, now this is what I wanted to talk about.” Grant said, his brows knitting together. “If I go, then you’ve got to look after him, ok? Not blame him for whatever’s happened to you in the last ten years.”
“看，这就是我想谈的。”格兰特说道，眉头紧锁。“如果我走了，你必须照顾好他，好吗？不要因为过去十年发生在你身上的事而责怪他。”

“Twelve years.” Sirius corrected.
“十二年。”小天狼星纠正道。

“Don’t care,” Grant shrugged, “It’s not been an easy life for any of us, sunshine, you’re not special. Remus is.”
“没关系，”格兰特耸耸肩，“我们的生活都不容易，亲爱的，你并不特别。雷穆斯才是。”

Grant’s voice was suddenly hard and dangerous - almost aggressive “He’s special to me , and if you’re not man enough to be kind to him, then you don’t deserve him. He’s been waiting for you. He’s never stopped waiting. He won’t say it, because Remus doesn’t say stuff like that. But he feels it. He feels everything , you must know that.”
格兰特的声音突然变得严厉而危险——几乎带有攻击性。“他对我很特别，如果你不够男人去善待他，那么你不配拥有他。他一直在等你。他从未停止过等待。他不会说出来，因为雷穆斯不说那种话。但他感受到了。他感受到了所有的，你必须知道。”

Sirius didn’t reply.
小天狼星没有回答。

“He loves you.” Grant said, steadily. “You have to love him back.”
“他爱你。”格兰特坚定地说道。“你必须回报他的爱。”

“I do love hi--”
“我爱他——”

“--No,” Grant was shaking his head again, “No, not like this. You have to be here ; a real, flesh and blood person. Not a dog. Not a ghost.”
“——不，”格兰特再次摇头，“不，不能这样。你必须在这里；一个真实的，有血有肉的人。不是一只狗。不是一个幽灵。”

Sirius couldn’t meet Grant’s eyes anymore, he bowed his head and nodded.
小天狼星再也无法直视格兰特的眼睛，他低下头点了点。

“I will.”
“我会的。”

“Good,” Grant smiled again, his face gentle once more. “Now, when he gets moody - and he will get moody - don’t let him mope, and don’t let him drink. He’ll want it, after a full moon, but it only takes him longer to get well again if he does.”
“好，”格兰特再次微笑，他的脸上重新变得温柔。“现在，当他情绪低落时——他会的——不要让他闷闷不乐，也不要让他喝酒。他会想要的，在满月之后，但如果他这样做，恢复起来会更慢。”

“I know what he needs after a full moon!” Sirius growled, affronted. “I’ve known him since I was eleven, who do you think you are, telling me--”
“我知道他在满月之后需要什么！”小天狼星生气地咆哮，“我从十一岁就认识他，你觉得你是谁，告诉我——”

“I’m the one who’s been here.” Grant returned, shortly. “I don’t think you get how hard it's been. I don’t think you… look; you had him at his best, ok? I had his worst.” He smiled, a little, “And I was glad to do it. I have one part of him. You have the other. Can we agree?”
“我是那个一直在这里的人。”格兰特简短地回道。“我认为你不了解这有多么困难。我认为你……看，你得到了他最好的一面，好吗？我得到了他最糟糕的一面。”他微笑了一下，“我很高兴这样做。我拥有他的一个部分。你拥有另一个部分。我们可以达成一致吗？”

Sirius stared at him a bit longer. Grant held out a hand to shake, and Sirius took it,
小天狼星多看了他一会儿。格兰特伸出手来握手，小天狼星握住了他的手，

“Ok.” he said.
“好。”他说。

“Lovely.” Grant released him, and stood up. He went into the bedroom and came back with a large hold all, which he placed very purposefully by the door. “Going to have to leave a few books and things here for a bit.” He said, “But I'll be back for ‘em when I'm settled. S'pose you don't need a key, eh? Can you get in the magic way?”
“太好了。”格兰特放开他的手，站起身来。他走进卧室，拿出一个大手提袋，特意放在门边。“得把一些书和东西留在这里一会儿。”他说，“但我会在安顿好之后回来拿。估计你不需要钥匙，对吧？你能用魔法进来吗？”

Sirius nodded, struck dumb. He couldn't believe this was happening. He wanted his heart to soar, he wanted to feel finally satisfied - but he couldn't help worrying. Grant had been a nuisance, but he had been a buffer, too. Would Remus blame him for it? Would he convince Grant to stay, or even worse, would he leave Sirius here, alone with the flat and the war and…
小天狼星点了点头，呆若木鸡。他无法相信这正在发生。他希望自己的心情高涨，希望能感到最终的满足——但他忍不住担心。格兰特曾经是个麻烦，但他也充当了缓冲。雷穆斯会责怪他吗？他会说服格兰特留下，还是更糟糕的是，他会把小天狼星留在这里，独自面对公寓和战争……

There was a quiet shuffling noise outside the front door, and Sirius’s ears pricked. Remus was back! His heart began to thrum against his ribcage, he licked his lips and sat up straighter, focussed in the door as it opened.
前门外传来轻微的窸窣声，小天狼星的耳朵竖了起来。雷穆斯回来了！他的心脏开始猛烈跳动，他舔了舔嘴唇，坐直了身子，专注地看着门打开。

Remus entered, head bowed, frowning a bit. Sirius couldn't believe how little Remus had changed, when everything else in the world was so different now. He was greyer, but he was still Moony, he was still completely devastatingly handsome and completely unphased about it.
雷穆斯进来了，低着头，微微皱眉。小天狼星无法相信雷穆斯变化如此之小，而世界上其他一切都变了。他变得更灰了，但他依然是Moony，依然完全魅力四射，对此毫无波动。

He gave Sirius a smile as he came in, which was so like the teenage Remus, it took Sirius right back to Hogwarts - arriving at the breakfast table to find Remus already there, on his third helping of bacon and eggs, grinning at something stupid Sirius had just said. See, he told himself, there are still some good memories left.
他进门时给了小天狼星一个微笑，那笑容与少年时期的雷穆斯如此相似，让小天狼星仿佛回到了霍格沃茨——到达早餐桌时发现雷穆斯已经在那儿，第三份培根和鸡蛋，笑着对小天狼星刚刚说的某件傻事。看，他对自己说，还有一些美好的回忆留下来。

“Hello,” he said, to the room.
“你好，”他说，向房间里的人打招呼。

“Hiya.” Grant replied. “Cup of tea?”
“嗨。”格兰特回答。“来杯茶吗？”

“Ooh, yes please,” Remus nodded, now giving Grant a friendly smile. The muggle went into the kitchen.
“哦，好的。”雷穆斯点头，现在对格兰特露出友好的微笑。麻瓜走进了厨房。

“How did it go?” Sirius asked, already agitated, “Did you see Dumbledore? What did he say?”
“怎么了？”小天狼星问，已经很激动了，“你见到邓布利多了吗？他说了什么？”

“Oh, nothing much. Nothing I haven't heard before. The Order needs a new HQ, we're all supposed to come up with ideas. Look, let's talk about it later?” Remus shot a glance at the kitchen, where Grant was making the tea.
“哦，没什么。没什么我没听过的。秩序需要一个新的总部，我们都应该提出建议。看看，我们稍后再谈？”雷穆斯瞥了一眼厨房，格兰特正在泡茶。

“Did he say anything about me? Dumbledore? How’s Harry?
“邓布利多说了关于我的事吗？哈利怎么样？”

“Harry's perfectly fine, back at his aunt and uncle's for the summer. What's this bag doing here?”
“哈利很好，正在他姨妈和姨父家过夏天。这个包怎么在这里？”

Remus was looking down at the brown hold all packed with Grant's things. He looked at Sirius. Sirius shrugged, slouching down in the sofa. Remus frowned, and called out, “Grant? What's this bag doing?”
雷穆斯低头看着装满格兰特物品的棕色手提袋。他看了看小天狼星。小天狼星耸耸肩，靠在沙发上。雷穆斯皱了皱眉，喊道，“格兰特？这个包怎么了？”

Grant popped his head around the kitchen door, looking sheepish.
格兰特探出头来，从厨房门口看过来，显得有些羞愧。

“Ah. Can I have a quick word?”
“啊。我可以和你说几句话吗？”

Remus paled, visibly, and went into the kitchen.
雷穆斯脸色明显变白，走进了厨房。

 

Chapter 188: 'Til the End 

 

I just want to see you

When you're all alone

I just want to catch you if I can

I just want to be there

When the morning light explodes

On your face it radiates

I can't escape

I love you 'till the end

 

I just want to tell you nothing

You don't want to hear

All I want is for you to say

Why don't you just take me

Where I've never been before

I know you want to hear me catch my breath

I love you 'till the end

 

I just want to be there

When we're caught in the rain

I just want to see you laugh not cry

I just want to feel you

When the night puts on it's cloak

I'm lost for words - don't tell me

All I can say

I love you ‘till the end.

 “Where are you going!?” Remus hissed, as he marched into the kitchen. He didn’t want Sirius to hear them fighting, but things didn’t look good at all, from the way Grant was calmly stirring his tea, not making eye contact.

“你要去哪儿！？”雷穆斯嘶声问道，他走进厨房。他不想让小天狼星听到他们争吵，但格兰特平静地搅拌着茶水，不看他，看来情况并不乐观。

“Brighton.” Grant said, “I’ve had a job offer - a really good one. Better pay, and I can help more people, I can really make a difference.”
“布赖顿。”格兰特说，“我收到了一份工作邀请——一份非常好的工作。薪水更高，我可以帮助更多的人，我真的能有所作为。”

“But we live in London.”
“但我们住在伦敦。”

“Remus…”
“雷穆斯……”

“You’re just up and leaving me for a job ?!” Remus was gearing up to start shouting; to shame Grant into staying. Grant just smiled sympathetically and shook his head,
“你就这样为了工作离开我？！”雷穆斯准备开始大喊；想要让格兰特感到羞愧，留下来。格兰特只是同情地微笑着，摇了摇头，

“Don’t be silly, now. You know it’s about more than that.”
“别傻了，你知道这不仅仅是因为那个。”

Remus’s heart was beating hard, he felt sick, woozy, as if the floor was rocking back and forth. “You can’t do this!”
雷穆斯的心跳得很快，他感到恶心，头晕目眩，就像地板在前后摇晃。“你不能这样做！”

“I’m just making things easier for you,” Grant said - and from anyone else that might have sounded bitter. “Haven’t I always tried to do that?”
“我只是想让事情对你更容易些，”格兰特说——如果是别人说这话可能会听起来有些苦涩。“我不一直都在努力做到这一点吗？”

“But I love you!”
“但我爱你！”

“I love you too, my darling, but I’m not sure that’s all there is to it.”
“我也爱你，亲爱的，但我不确定这就是全部。”

“So you’re just making the decision for me?!“
“所以你是在替我做决定？！”

“I’m making a decision for me.” Grant said, very firmly. He looked at Remus now, dead in the eye, and Remus could see there would be no more arguing. “Sirius needs you now, and you’ll go to war, because that’s who you are, you’re mad and brave and incredible. There isn’t a place for me in all that, so I need you to let me go. We’ll always be friends, won’t we? Care home yobs together?”
“这是我为自己做的决定。”格兰特非常坚定地说道。他现在直视雷穆斯，雷穆斯能看出他们不会再争论下去了。“小天狼星现在需要你，而你将要去打仗，因为这就是你，你疯狂、勇敢、不可思议。在这一切中没有我的位置，所以我需要你放手。我们永远是朋友，不是吗？一起在养老院混日子？”

Remus wanted to wail. He wanted to fall to his knees and clutch Grant around the waist and hold him there forever, to beg and plead. He knew that was selfish. Grant was right; Remus had already decided to re-join the Order, he had decided the moment Sirius returned. It wasn’t fair to keep Grant around for that, it was downright dangerous. But he needed him, oh, he really, really needed Grant. Remus wasn’t sure he could do it all alone, not with Sirius the way he was.
雷穆斯想要哀嚎。他想跪下来抱住格兰特的腰，永远地留住他，请求和乞求。他知道这是自私的。格兰特说得对；雷穆斯已经决定重新加入凤凰社，那是小天狼星回来的那一刻。他不应该因为这个而让格兰特留在身边，这样做简直是危险的。但他需要他，哦，他真的非常需要格兰特。雷穆斯不确定自己能否独自完成所有事情，尤其是在小天狼星现在这样的时候。

“You’ll break my heart if you go now.” Remus said, aware he sounded sulky and petulant.
“如果你现在离开，你会伤透我的心。”雷穆斯说道，意识到自己听起来很闹脾气。

Grant shook his head lightly, holding his ground. “I’m sorry, love. But it’s breaking my heart to stay.”
格兰特轻轻摇了摇头，坚定地站着。“对不起，亲爱的。但留下来真的让我心碎。”

And in an instant, Remus understood. He saw Grant properly for the first time, not as his protector, his champion, but as a person who was not so very different from him, who was just as vulnerable to suffering.
瞬间，雷穆斯明白了。他第一次真正看到了格兰特，不再是他的保护者、他的支持者，而是一个和他没什么不同的人，同样容易受苦。

“It’s not a proper goodbye, eh?” Grant said, softly. “You’re not shot of me yet.”
“这不是真正的告别，对吧？”格兰特柔声说道。“你还没有摆脱我。”

“I haven’t always been fair to you.” Remus said. He had wanted to say it for a long time now. He wanted some kind of forgiveness.
“我对你并不总是公平。”雷穆斯说道。他想了很久才说出这句话。他渴望某种宽恕。

“You’ve been fine,” Grant smiled, without a trace of blame. “You’ve been my little bit of magic.”
“你很好，”格兰特笑了笑，没有一丝责备。“你是我一点点魔法。”

Remus made a strangled noise, and tried not to cry. Grant hugged him, and they held each other for the last time.
雷穆斯发出了压抑的声音，努力不让自己哭出来。格兰特抱住了他，他们最后一次拥抱在一起。

Grant left Remus in the kitchen, with two cups of tea - one for Remus, one for Sirius. Remus stood in silence and waited for the door to go. When he heard it shut, he covered his mouth with his hand and closed his eyes. He breathed in and out for a few moments, then walked into the living room. Sirius was still on the couch. He looked anxious, rubbing his hands together.
格兰特把雷穆斯留在厨房，带着两杯茶——一杯给雷穆斯，一杯给小天狼星。雷穆斯默默地站着，等待门声。当他听到门关上的声音时，他用手捂住了嘴巴，闭上了眼睛。他深呼吸了几下，然后走进了客厅。小天狼星仍然坐在沙发上。他看起来很焦虑，搓着手。

“Remus, I--”
“雷穆斯，我——”

“No.” Remus held up his hand, shaking his head, “No, I need a minute.”
“不。”雷穆斯举起手，摇了摇头，“不，我需要一分钟。”

He went into the bedroom and closed the door. He sat on the bed and cried and cried. Once that was done with, he washed his face and went back to Sirius.
他走进卧室，关上了门。他坐在床上哭泣了一阵。完成后，他洗了脸，回到了小天狼星身边。

There was so much work to do.
还有很多工作要做。

Monday 10th July 1995

Things were harder, after Grant left. Remus felt as though he had lost his rock; the person who had kept him safe for thirteen years. The man Remus was left with was practically a stranger; a gaping hole of misery and fear and vengeful rage. Remus was on eggshells, and the war stretched ahead of them - would it always be like this?
格兰特离开后，一切变得更加困难。雷穆斯觉得自己失去了支柱；那个在过去十三年里保护他的那个人。雷穆斯留下来的那个男人简直是个陌生人；一个充满痛苦、恐惧和复仇愤怒的巨大空洞。雷穆斯如履薄冰，战争在他们面前延展——会一直这样下去吗？

They kept focussed on the war, mostly because Remus refused to discuss Grant, or his feelings. It was too much, in those early days. They spent their time working on lists of contacts, getting in touch with the old crowd, digging up old information from the last war. Sirius hooked them back into the floo network, using a secret connection only accessible to the right people, and time and time again the two of them knelt on the hearth rug, speaking into the flames; Sirius explaining his story to each member. Few of them took much convincing. All of them believed that Voldemort was back, and wanted to do something about it.
他们将注意力集中在战争上，主要是因为雷穆斯拒绝讨论格兰特或他的感受。在那些早期的日子里，这太过沉重。他们花时间处理联系人名单，联系老朋友，挖掘上一场战争的旧信息。小天狼星将他们重新接入了火焰网络，使用一个只有正确的人才能访问的秘密连接，一次又一次，他们俩跪在壁炉地毯上，对着火焰说话；小天狼星向每个成员讲述他的故事。他们中的大多数人很容易被说服。他们都相信伏地魔回来了，并且想要做点什么。

When they weren’t working for Dumbledore, Remus put the TV on and more often than not, Sirius would transform into Padfoot and doze off. Remus did all of the cooking - Sirius offered, but Remus wouldn’t allow it. He said he wanted Sirius to rest, to recuperate, but really he just wanted to be in a different room, most of the time. Sirius still slept on the couch, because neither of them were able to broach the subject.
当他们不为邓布利多工作时，雷穆斯会打开电视，更多的时候，小天狼星会变成帕德弗特，打盹。雷穆斯做了所有的饭——小天狼星主动提议，但雷穆斯不允许。他说他想让小天狼星休息、恢复，但实际上他只是大部分时间想待在另一个房间里。小天狼星仍然睡在沙发上，因为他们都无法谈论这个话题。

“Full moon on Wednesday,” Remus said, one afternoon. They’d just signed off with Kingsley - an Auror Moody had brought in, who seemed pretty capable. Remus wasn’t sure what that was worth; he’d seen plenty of capable wizards die.
“周三是满月。”雷穆斯在一个下午说道。他们刚刚和金斯利结束了谈话——一个由穆迪带来的傲罗，看起来很有能力。雷穆斯不确定这有什么用处；他见过许多有能力的巫师死去。

“I know.” Sirius replied, brusquely.
“我知道。”小天狼星冷冷地回答道。

They sat side by side on the couch, blankly watching the TV. It was only the muggle news, but it might as well have been static, for all they cared. Just a reason not to look at each other.
他们并排坐在沙发上，呆呆地看着电视。只是麻瓜新闻，但对他们来说，它可能就像静态一样。他们只是找个理由避免互相看。

“I usually leave an hour or so before sunset,” Remus continued. “Gives me time to clear the area, if I need to.”
“我通常在日落前一个小时左右离开，”雷穆斯继续说道。“这给我时间清理区域，如果需要的话。”

“I remember how it works.” Sirius said.
“我记得是怎么回事。”小天狼星说。

“Ok, sorry.” Remus muttered, irritated. “Just thought you’d want to know. But if you’ve got other plans, then by all means, stay here.”
“好的，对不起。”雷穆斯有些恼怒地嘟囔道。“只是觉得你可能想知道。不过如果你有其他计划，那就留在这里吧。”

Sirius looked at him. “Oh. You want me to come?”
小天狼星看着他。“哦。你想让我来吗？”

“Only if you want to,” Remus said, hurriedly, “I don’t mind either way.”
“只有你愿意的话，”雷穆斯匆忙说道，“无论怎样我都不介意。”

“Dumbledore said I need to stay here at all times…”
“邓布利多说我需要随时待在这里……”

“Fine. Stay here then.” Remus folded his arms tightly across his chest, feeling hurt.
“好吧，那就待在这里。”雷穆斯紧紧抱着手臂，感到受伤。

“No, I’ll come with you.” Sirius said.
“不，我会跟你一起去。”小天狼星说。

“Great.” Remus drawled, sarcastically.
“太好了。”雷穆斯带着讽刺地说道。

It was how almost all of their conversations seemed to go. One of them would deliberately misunderstand, or become unreasonably defensive about a tiny matter. Then the other would bite back, and around and around, until they both just stopped talking and ignored each other. But if Remus got up, or made to leave the room, Sirius would give him that terrified look; “Where are you going??” and Remus would sit back down again, and the whole scene would re-set.
几乎所有的对话都是这样的。总是一个人故意误解，或者对微不足道的事情变得不合理地防御。然后另一个人会反击，来来回回，直到他们都停止交谈，互相忽视。但如果雷穆斯站起来，或准备离开房间，小天狼星就会给他那个害怕的眼神；“你要去哪儿？”雷穆斯就会坐回去，整个场景重新设定。

He thought that bringing up the full moon might cheer Sirius up a bit. Sirius had always loved full moons, and it meant he could leave the flat for once. Can’t you just be normal?! Remus found himself thinking, angrily, I don’t want to live with a stranger, I want my best friend back. I need help.
他想着提到满月可能会让小天狼星开心一点。小天狼星一直喜欢满月，这意味着他可以离开公寓一次。你就不能正常一点吗？！雷穆斯愤怒地想着，我不想和一个陌生人生活，我想要回我的最好的朋友。我需要帮助。

Then he felt guilty. Because obviously Sirius couldn’t help it, and if he really thought about it, they had always been a fractious couple; they were both hotheaded Gryffindors, after all.
然后他感到内疚。因为显然小天狼星无能为力，如果他真的想一想，他们一直都是一个争吵不断的情侣；毕竟他们都是脾气火爆的格兰芬多。

Still. Sirius may not be a complete stranger, but he was certainly strange. Had he always been so watchful, so quick to anger? Or had Azkaban done that to him? Or - worst of all - was it all Remus’s fault?
不过，小天狼星可能不是完全的陌生人，但他确实很奇怪。他一直都这么警惕、容易生气吗？还是阿兹卡班让他变成了这样？或者——最糟糕的是——这一切都是雷穆斯的错？

Without Grant there, Remus began to wonder whether he seemed different himself. Perhaps years of living like a muggle had made him less interesting. He was slower than he’d been as a teenager, more cautious. He rarely laughed.
没有了格兰特，雷穆斯开始怀疑自己是否也变得不同了。也许多年的麻瓜生活让他变得不那么有趣。他比年轻时更慢了，更小心了。他很少笑。

It was stupid, but Remus was even more worried about how he looked. He had never been a vain person; he’d always been very ordinary looking, scarred and a bit gangly, even when Sirius had known him. But at least back then Remus had been young. Now, his hair was grey all over, only a few strands of the original mousey shade left. He had more scars than ever, and sometimes he still smoked, which made him cough like an old coal miner.
这很愚蠢，但雷穆斯甚至更担心自己的外貌。他从未是一个爱慕虚荣的人；他一直看起来非常普通，满身伤疤，有点瘦弱，即使在小天狼星认识他的时候也是这样。但至少那时雷穆斯还年轻。现在，他的头发全是灰色，只剩下几缕原本的鼠灰色。他的伤疤比以前更多，有时候他还抽烟，这让他像个老煤矿工人一样咳嗽。

He was so much less than he had been before.
他远不如以前了。

“This isn’t going to work, is it?” Sirius said, abruptly, breaking Remus’s thoughts.
“这行不通，对吧？”小天狼星突然说道，打断了雷穆斯的思绪。

No tact. Once he had been so silver tongued he could talk anyone into anything; could reel off dirty jokes like they were romantic poetry. But now everything Sirius said was sudden and blunt and full of raw urgency.
毫无圆滑。他曾经口才极佳，能说服任何人做任何事；能像讲情诗一样讲脏话。但现在，小天狼星说的一切都突然而直接，充满了原始的紧迫感。

“What isn't?” Remus asked, shaken. He kept his eyes fixed on the TV.
“什么行不通？”雷穆斯问道，感到震惊。他的目光始终盯着电视。

“This. You and me. In the same room. Trying to act like… trying to be ok with each other. After everything that’s happened, and fourteen years… it's just going to be too much.”
“这。你和我。在同一个房间里。试图表现得……试图和彼此相处好。在发生了所有事情之后，十四年了……这实在是太多了。”

Remus finally turned to look at him, ready to be annoyed again, but found that Sirius was staring down at his hands, twisting them hard in his lap so that the skin pulled and his knuckles whitened. He had scars too, now.
雷穆斯最终转身看着他，准备再次感到恼火，但发现小天狼星正盯着自己的手看，把它们紧紧地扭在大腿上，皮肤被拉紧，关节变白了。他现在也有伤疤了。

He didn’t look so old and strange, then; he just looked like Sirius. And he was frightened.
那样看起来他不那么老和奇怪了；他只是看起来像小天狼星。并且他很害怕。

“Oh, I don’t know,” Remus said softly. He reached over and stilled Sirius’s hands with his own, weaving their scarred bony fingers together. He caught his eye and smiled encouragingly. “You were always too much for me. I never minded.”
“哦，我不知道，”雷穆斯柔声说道。他伸手过去，用自己的手稳住小天狼星的手，将他们那些伤疤满布的骨指交织在一起。他捕捉到小天狼星的目光，鼓励地笑了笑。“你总是对我来说太多了。我从来不介意。”

The look of relief which flooded Sirius’s face was worth every lost moment. It was an entire lifetime. He raised Remus’s hand to his lips, and gently kissed the inside of his palm.
小天狼星脸上充满的释然的神情值得每一个失去的时刻。这是一个整整一生的时刻。他将雷穆斯的手举到嘴唇上，轻轻吻了吻手掌内侧。

They returned to the TV after that, but kept holding hands.
然后他们回到了电视前，但仍然保持着牵手。

* * *

Thursday 14th July

Thankfully, the full moon was a welcome change of pace. They apparated to the Brecon Beacons together, and both transformed on a mountainside. The wolf was thrilled to be reunited with its old companion, and they spent their time chasing foxes through the grasslands, running together for miles and miles. They were better together, in their canine bodies; more natural, more at ease. Perhaps the lack of inhibition, or perhaps the bond forged between them as dog and wolf was not as easily broken.
值得庆幸的是，满月成为了一个受欢迎的变换节奏。他们一起使用隐形术到达布雷肯比肯山脉，并在山坡上变身。狼很高兴能和它的老伙伴重聚，他们在草地上追逐狐狸，跑了好几英里。他们在狗和狼的身体里更加默契，更自然。也许是缺乏抑制，或者是作为狗和狼之间的纽带不容易被打破。

When Remus turned back, at dawn, Padfoot licked his face gleefully, nuzzling into him, and Remus laughed, for the first time since Sirius had returned to London.
当雷穆斯在黎明时分变回人形时，帕德弗特高兴地舔着他的脸，依偎着他，雷穆斯笑了，这是自从小天狼星回到伦敦后第一次笑。

They were still smiling when they got back to the flat, and it felt bigger than before; less of a cage.
他们回到公寓时仍在微笑，这感觉比以前更宽敞；不再像个牢笼。

“I forgot how strong you were,” Sirius beamed, full of energy, “I forgot you were faster than me.”
“小天狼星笑容满面，充满了活力，”我忘了你有多强壮，“我忘了你比我快。”

“Of course you did,” Remus grinned, “Arrogant prick. I could always beat you.”
“当然忘了，”雷穆斯咧嘴一笑，“傲慢的混蛋。我总是能打败你。”

He picked up the post sitting on the doormat and flicked through, as Sirius flung himself onto the couch, sprawling out. It was the first time Remus had seen him look really relaxed in their flat again, and it made him feel warm inside.
他拿起坐在门垫上的邮件翻看，而小天狼星则扑在沙发上，伸展开来。这是雷穆斯第一次看到他在他们的公寓里显得如此放松，这让他感到内心温暖。

Flicking through the bills and takeaway leaflets, Remus stopped short as he reached a postcard. It had Grant’s new address on it. Nothing else, just the address, neatly printed. The needle sharp sting of regret hit Remus, and he sighed, heavily. There was no phone number. Either Grant didn’t have one yet (which seemed very unlikely, as he was barely off it normally, and needed one for work), or he was telling Remus not to get in touch.
翻看账单和外卖传单时，雷穆斯停下了，因为他看到了一张明信片。上面写着格兰特的新地址。别的什么也没有，只是地址，印得很整齐。内心刺痛的遗憾击中了雷穆斯，他重重地叹了口气。上面没有电话号码。要么是格兰特还没有电话号码（这似乎很不可能，因为他通常几乎离不开电话，还需要一个工作用），要么是他在告诉雷穆斯不要联系他。

“What’s up?” Sirius said, from the couch, ever watchful.
“怎么了？”小天狼星在沙发上问，依旧警惕。

“Nothing. Grant’s new address, that’s all.” Remus put it on the mantelpiece. “I really need a lie down, I think I’ll go to bed.”
“没什么。格兰特的新地址，仅此而已。”雷穆斯把它放在壁炉架上。“我真的需要躺下，我想我去睡觉。”

He downed some painkillers - only over the counter stuff, nothing exciting - and went to sleep. Luckily that was easy enough, after a full moon. When he woke up, the bedroom felt cold and empty. It was long after midday, and he could smell bacon cooking, the salty, savoury scent wafting its way through the flat.
他吞下了一些止痛药——只是非处方的，没有什么刺激的——然后去睡觉。幸运的是，满月后这很容易。当他醒来时，卧室感觉冷而空旷。已经过了中午很久，他能闻到培根煎熟的香味，咸咸的、可口的气味在公寓里飘荡。

He got up and followed the scent to the kitchen, where Sirius was standing over the hob, agitating a sizzling pan of bacon and eggs. He turned, seeing Remus and smiled,
他起床，跟着香味来到厨房，小天狼星正站在炉灶上，搅拌着煎锅里的培根和鸡蛋。他转过身，看见雷穆斯，笑了

“Thought you’d be hungry. You’re always hungry.”
“我想你会饿的。你总是饿。”

“Yeah,” Remus nodded, yawning and scratching his head. “Cheers.”
“是啊，”雷穆斯点点头，打了个哈欠，挠了挠头。“谢谢。”

Remus made the toast quickly, with his wand - he was getting back into the habit of using magic again now that his last ties to the muggle world had been cut.
雷穆斯迅速用魔杖做了吐司——既然他和麻瓜世界的最后联系已经切断，他正在重新养成使用魔法的习惯。

They sat at the table in the living room, and Sirius even made an effort to use a knife and fork. Remus smiled at that, remembering James and Sirius’s impeccable pureblood table manners. He will come back to me, Remus told himself, as Sirius buttered his toast daintily, bit by bit.
他们坐在客厅的桌子旁，小天狼星甚至努力使用刀叉。雷穆斯对这一点微笑，记起詹姆斯和小天狼星无可挑剔的纯血统餐桌礼仪。他告诉自己，他会回来找我，雷穆斯看着小天狼星小心翼翼地抹黄油在吐司上，一片片地。

The postcard from Grant was still sitting up on the mantelpiece. The image on the front was of Brighton Pavillion. “I’d better start boxing up the rest of his things,” Remus said, thinking out loud. “Find a way to get them to him.”
格兰特的明信片仍然放在壁炉架上。明信片上的图像是布莱顿皇家亭。“我最好开始打包他的其他东西，”雷穆斯说，想到声。“找个办法把它们送给他。”

“He said he’d come back, when he was settled.” Sirius said, unexpectedly.
“小天狼星意外地说：“他说他会回来，等他安定下来时。”

“Oh.” Remus blinked, “Did you talk, then?”
“哦。”雷穆斯眨了眨眼，“那你们聊过了？”

“A little bit,” Sirius shrugged, faking nonchalance, “Just to say goodbye. He told me to look after you.”
“小天狼星耸耸肩，假装冷漠，“聊了一点。只是说再见。他让我照顾你。”

“Oh, I see.” Remus said, quietly. “Well, sorry about that. That wasn’t his place to say.”
“哦，我明白了。”雷穆斯安静地说道。“抱歉，那不是他该说的。”

He wanted very much to keep these two halves of his life separate.
他非常希望将这两个生活的部分分开。

“No, it was ok,” Sirius said. They were quiet for a bit, eating. And then… “When did it happen?” Sirius asked, back to his sharp abruptness.
“不，没关系，”小天狼星说。他们安静了一会儿，吃着饭。然后……“什么时候发生的？”小天狼星问，回到了他那种尖锐的突然性。

“When did what happen?”
“什么什么时候发生的？”

“You and him. How soon after… after I went to prison?”
“你和他。多快后……我进了监狱之后？”

Remus set down his fork. “Why are you asking me that?”
雷穆斯放下了叉子。“你为什么问我这个？”

“I’m just trying to fill in the gaps - the stuff I missed.”
“我只是想填补空白——我错过的东西。”

Something inside Remus grew hot and fierce.
雷穆斯心里某处变得炙热而激烈。

“I don’t see what Grant has to do with any of it. Do you want a list of everyone I’ve shagged since you’ve been gone?”
“我不明白格兰特和这些有什么关系。你要一份我自从你离开后和谁上过床的名单吗？”

Sirius breathed in, sharply, at that. “No, of course not.”
小天狼星对此吸了一口气。“不，当然不是。”

“Well, then. Leave him out of it. He’s gone now, that’s that.”
“那就好。别提他了。他现在走了，就是这样。”

“I shouldn’t have asked. I just thought... “
“我不该问的。我只是觉得……”

“I never cheated on you.” Remus said, hardening his voice, “So you can stop wondering. I never, ever betrayed you. Even if you think I did.”
“我从未背叛过你。”雷穆斯说，声音变得坚硬，“所以你可以停止怀疑。我从未，绝对未曾背叛过你。即使你认为我背叛了你。”

Sirius frowned, and looked down at his food. “You are still angry about that, then.”
小天狼星皱起眉头，看着自己的食物。“你仍然为此生气。”

“I don’t want to be.” Remus said. “I don’t want to be, but I am. You thought I was a spy, Sirius! You thought I would try to hurt Lily and James - you thought I would try to hurt you.”
“我不想生气。”雷穆斯说道。“我不想生气，但我确实生气了。你认为我是一名间谍，小天狼星！你认为我会试图伤害莉莉和詹姆斯——你认为我会试图伤害你。”

“I was confused,” Sirius said, his voice small, “Everything was such a mess, everything was so difficult, and no one knew anything, no one trusted anybody--”
“我很困惑，”小天狼星说，声音变得很小，“一切都很混乱，一切都很困难，没有人知道任何事情，没有人信任任何人——”

“I remember.” Remus snapped. “I was there. I still trusted my friends.”
“我记得。”雷穆斯厉声说道。“我在那儿。我依然信任我的朋友。”

Sirius kept staring at his food, but Remus wasn’t finished, this had to come out eventually, he knew how it felt to leave things unsaid.
小天狼星继续盯着他的食物，但雷穆斯还没说完，这些话总得说出来，他知道没说清楚的感觉。

“D’you know how stupid I was? D’you want to know how completely dense I was, in those last months? I thought you wanted to break up with me! I wanted to come back from the pack and see if we could make things up - it never crossed my mind that you thought I was a… I mean, fucking hell, Sirius. I loved you!”
“你知道我有多愚蠢吗？你想知道在最后几个月我有多完全笨吗？我以为你想和我分手！我想从狼群中回来，看看我们能否和好如初——我从未想到过你认为我会是个……我的意思是，天啊，小天狼星。我爱你！”

“Remus…”
“雷穆斯……”

“I loved you, and you left me with nothing, do you understand? I had nothing except a lot of scars and a drinking habit. So don’t start interrogating me about the bits of my life I’ve been able to put back together.”
“我爱你，你却把我留在了什么都没有的地方，你明白吗？我除了许多伤疤和一个喝酒的习惯外什么都没有。所以别再开始盘问我关于我重新拼凑起来的生活片段。”

Remus stood up and paced, the last of the full moon still hot in his veins. He stood by the window. He wanted to smoke, but he’d learnt by now not to give in to those kinds of urges - the kind that felt good, but would probably kill you in the end. The kind of urges he got when Sirius was around.
雷穆斯站起身，来回踱步，满月的余热仍在他血液中沸腾。他站在窗边。他想抽烟，但他现在已经学会了不去顺应那些冲动——那些感觉不错，但可能最终会杀了你的冲动。在小天狼星身边时，他会有这样的冲动。

“I’m sorry.” Sirius’s voice was still very small. He was hunched forward, his hair in his face. Pitiful.
“对不起。”小天狼星的声音仍然很小。他俯身，头发遮住了脸。显得很可怜。

Remus felt terrible, even though he knew he deserved an apology. He hadn’t meant to be hurtful. For fuck’s sake, Remus scolded himself, why can’t we ever get this right?
雷穆斯感到很糟糕，即使他知道他应该得到一个道歉。他并不想伤人。该死的，雷穆斯责怪自己，为什么我们总是做不好呢？

“No, I’m sorry.” He said, steadying his voice, remembering to be understanding. “I didn’t mean to be so…”
“不，我很抱歉。”他说，稳住声音，记得要理解。“我不是故意这样……”

“I understand. I swear, Moon--Remus, sorry - I swear, I thought about you every day. What you must think of me, what you must have heard… I was the stupid one, not you. I should have trusted you, I should have told you about Wormtail being made secret keeper - I mean, bloody hell, we should have made you secret keeper. Merlin, when I went to Godric’s Hollow that night… I just lost it.”
“我明白。我发誓，月亮——雷穆斯，对不起——我发誓，我每天都在想你。你一定对我怎么想，你一定听到了什么……我才是傻瓜，不是你。我应该相信你，我应该告诉你关于彼得佩提格鲁被任命为秘密守护者的事——我的意思是，天哪，我们应该让你做秘密守护者。梅林啊，当我那晚去戈德里克山谷时……我完全崩溃了。”

“I would have done the same.” Remus sighed, “I’d have killed Wormtail. Sirius, I'm sorry too. I wish I hadn’t believed them - I wish I’d tried to investigate, done something to help you. I was just such a state, I barely went out, I was never sober. That stuff’s all my fault. ...And that’s why I needed Grant.”
“我会做同样的事。”雷穆斯叹了口气，“我会杀了彼得佩提格鲁。小天狼星，我也很抱歉。我希望我没有相信他们——我希望我曾尝试过调查，做点什么来帮助你。我当时真的很糟糕，我几乎没出门，我从不清醒。那些都是我的错。……这就是为什么我需要格兰特。”

Sirius nodded, forlorn, still sitting at the table. It was too much, the air was too thick.
小天狼星垂头丧气地点了点头，仍坐在桌旁。气氛太沉重，空气太厚重。

“Here, are you finished?” Remus asked, needing a subject change, “I’ll do the washing up. Thanks for that, it was perfect.”
“好了，你吃完了吗？”雷穆斯问道，需要换个话题，“我来洗碗。谢谢，这真是完美的。”

He cleared up the plates and took them through to the kitchen. He folded up the last of Sirius’s fried egg in a piece of toast and scoffed it - waste not want not. Sirius came in just as he was chewing,
他收拾好盘子，拿到厨房里。他把小天狼星剩下的煎蛋折在一片吐司里吃掉——节约不浪费。小天狼星进来时正好看到他在咀嚼，

“Same old Remus,” he snorted, “Finishing everyone’s food.”
“还是那个老雷穆斯，”他哼了一声，“吃掉大家的食物。”

“I know,” Remus laughed, slightly abashed, turning on the taps. “Grant used to call me the human refuse unit. Once he ordered a set meal for four from the takeaway downstairs, but got stuck on a work call, and by the time he came back I’d eaten the lot.”
“我知道，”雷穆斯笑道，有些不好意思，转动水龙头。“格兰特以前叫我‘人类垃圾处理器’。一次他从楼下的外卖店订了四人份的套餐，但被工作电话困住了，当他回来的时候，我已经把所有的食物都吃掉了。”

Sirius took this anecdote pretty well. He came to stand beside Remus and took up a tea towel, so he could dry as Remus washed. They did this in companionable silence for a while, but Remus knew Sirius was building up to something. His body was giving off that agitated energy Remus recognised from long ago - were they going to have a fight again? He hoped not.
小天狼星对这个故事接受得还不错。他走到雷穆斯身边，拿起一条茶巾，雷穆斯洗碗时他擦干碗碟。他们在一种友好的沉默中做了一会儿，但雷穆斯知道小天狼星在酝酿着什么。他的身体散发出雷穆斯从很久以前就认识的那种焦躁的能量——他们要再争吵一次吗？他希望不是。

“How long was he here?” Sirius said, softly, “How long were you…”
“小天狼星软声问道：“他在这儿待了多久？你们在一起多久了……”

“A long time.” Remus replied, concentrating on the dishes.
“很长时间。”雷穆斯回答道，专注于洗碗。

“It’s good that you had someone.” Sirius said, with remarkable humility. “I’m glad you weren’t alone.”
“你有个人陪伴很好。”小天狼星说，语气中透露出异常的谦逊。“我很高兴你没有一个人。”

“He was better than I deserved.” Remus agreed, glancing at Sirius to check it was ok to continue. “I never thought I’d… I didn’t think I could ever love someone who wasn’t you. But I did. I loved him.”
“他比我应得的要好。”雷穆斯同意道，瞥了小天狼星一眼，确认是否可以继续。“我从未想到过我会……我没想到我能爱上一个不是你的人。但我确实爱过他。我爱过他。”

Sirius opened his mouth, but seemed to think better of it, and closed it again. He nodded, a shadow of disappointment crossing his face. He was trying so hard. Remus put down the last dish, carefully, and wiped his hands dry on his jeans.
小天狼星张了张嘴，但似乎考虑了下，还是闭上了。他点了点头，脸上露出了失望的阴影。他努力地控制自己。雷穆斯小心翼翼地放下最后一个盘子，把手上的水擦干在牛仔裤上。

He turned back to face Sirius, who was watching him like a hawk.
他转身面对小天狼星，小天狼星像老鹰一样注视着他。

“I loved him.” Remus said. “But he wasn’t you.”
“我爱过他。”雷穆斯说。“但他不是你。”

Sirius’s eyes widened, hopefully. Remus gave him a small, shy smile, and a tiny shrug. Sirius leaned in, and all of a sudden they were inches apart, and then they were kissing, clutching each other tightly, as if it was their first and last.
小天狼星的眼睛因希望而睁大了。雷穆斯给了他一个小小的、害羞的微笑，并轻轻耸了耸肩。小天狼星靠近了，两人突然之间只有几英寸远，然后他们接吻了，紧紧相拥，就像是他们的第一次也是最后一次。

It turned out you never really lost the knack. Like an unbroken spell, Remus felt every moment come flooding back to him as vividly as if it were yesterday; not the fights, or the war, or the emptiness, but the joy, the thrill of friendship, and the love - so, so much love; Remus felt as if he was being filled up with it; he was spilling over.
原来你从未真正丧失这种技巧。像一个未被打破的咒语一样，雷穆斯感到每一刻都像昨天一样生动地涌回他的记忆；不是争吵、战争或空虚，而是喜悦、友谊的激动，以及那份爱——如此如此的爱；雷穆斯感觉自己被充满了这份爱；他溢出来了。

Just as it had been the very first time, Remus’s brain seemed to be yelling yes, yes yes! and he held onto Sirius with both hands, you’re mine, you’re mine, you’re mine.
正如第一次那样，雷穆斯的脑海似乎在大喊“是的，是的，是的！”他用双手紧紧抓住小天狼星，你是我的，你是我的，你是我的。

When they broke apart, they were both grinning, pressing their foreheads together, holding each other’s shoulders as if they were fighting——或是在坠落。
当他们分开时，两人都在微笑，额头紧贴着彼此，抓住对方的肩膀，仿佛他们正在打斗——或是在坠落。

“I love you,” Sirius whispered, “I love you so much.” He squeezed his eyes shut, “Don’t worry, you don’t have to say it back.”
“我爱你，”小天狼星轻声说，“我非常爱你。”他紧闭着眼睛，“别担心，你不用回答。”

“Of course I love you, you idiot,” Remus gasped, not sure if he was laughing or crying, “I never stopped.”
“当然我爱你，傻瓜，”雷穆斯喘息道，不确定自己是在笑还是哭，“我从未停止过。”

Sirius laughed too, though his cheeks were wet, and kissed him again. And again, and again, and again.
小天狼星也笑了，尽管他的脸颊湿了，他再次吻了他。又一次，又一次，再一次。

They weren’t teenagers anymore. They finished the washing up, and returned to the couch. Sirius suggested playing a record, instead of the TV, and Remus acquiesced, willing to give him anything he wanted. He selected Diamond Dogs, first, but Remus thought the lyrics to ‘We are The Dead’ might be too hard to hear. In the end it was Hunky Dory, which had happier tunes on it.
他们不再是青少年了。他们洗完碗，回到沙发上。小天狼星建议播放一张唱片，而不是电视，雷穆斯答应了，愿意满足他的一切愿望。他选择了《Diamond Dogs》，但雷穆斯觉得《We are The Dead》的歌词可能太难听。最后选择了《Hunky Dory》，这张专辑上有更快乐的曲调。

Sirius stretched out, his head in Remus’s lap, and Remus stroked his hair and bent over to kiss him whenever he liked, because he could, at last, he could.
小天狼星伸展着身体，头靠在雷穆斯的膝盖上，雷穆斯抚摸着他的头发，并弯下腰随时亲吻他，因为他可以，终于可以。

“I missed you.” He whispered.
“我想你了。”他轻声说。

Sirius squeezed his hand and turned his head, slightly, obviously not wanting Remus to see the emotion on his face. He cleared his throat, “Tell you what I’ve missed,” he said, a smile playing on his lips - that Sirius Black grin - “Smoking. Haven’t got a fag, have you?”
小天狼星握紧他的手，稍微转过头，显然不想让雷穆斯看到他脸上的情感。他清了清嗓子，“告诉你我想念什么，”他说，嘴角露出笑容——那是小天狼星的笑容——“抽烟。你没有烟吧？”

“They’re bad for you.” Remus tutted. “They kill you.”
“它们对你不好。”雷穆斯啧了一声。“它们会杀了你。”

“We’re all dying,” Sirius replied.
“我们都在死去，”小天狼星回答道。

 

“Maybe.” Remus agreed, lacing their fingers together, “But shouldn’t life last longer, if it can be like this?”
“也许吧。”雷穆斯同意道，手指交缠在一起，“但如果生活能像这样，不应该更持久吗？”

* * *

They fell asleep on the couch, probably because they were both too shy to suggest moving to the bedroom. Remus awoke to birdsong in the early hours of the morning, still upright, stiff, hips aching, the warm weight of Padfoot in his lap. He scratched sleepily behind the dog’s ear, pushing him away to get up and use the loo.
他们在沙发上睡着了，可能是因为他们都太害羞，没敢提议去卧室。雷穆斯在清晨鸟鸣中醒来，仍然保持坐姿，僵硬，臀部疼痛，膝盖上有帕德福特的温暖体重。他迷迷糊糊地挠了挠狗的耳朵，把它推开以便起身去洗手间。

When he came back, Sirius was back to himself. “Sorry,” he said, “I keep turning in my sleep. I think I spent too long as a dog in Azkaban.”
当他回来时，小天狼星已经恢复了常态。“抱歉，”他说，“我睡觉时总是翻来覆去。我想我在阿兹卡班作为一只狗待得太久了。”

“It’s fine,” Remus smiled, “I don’t mind at all.” He stretched, “What do we need to do today, is there anyone left on the list to talk to?”
“没关系，”雷穆斯微笑道，“我完全不介意。”他伸了伸懒腰，“我们今天需要做些什么？还有谁在名单上需要联系吗？”

“No, we’ve done everything,” Sirius said. “Except find a new headquarters. Hey, I had a thought about that - what about that old church you stayed in with the werewolves?”
“没有，我们已经做完了一切，”小天狼星说。“除了找一个新的总部。嘿，我有个想法——你和狼人待过的那座老教堂怎么样？”

“Oh, that… no, probably a bad idea. Greyback knows where it is.”
“哦，那个……不，可能是个坏主意。格雷巴克知道它在哪里。”

“He’s still around, then.”
“他还在那儿，看来。”

“Mm hmm. Tea?”
“嗯。茶？”

“Please.”
“好的。”

Remus went into the kitchen and Sirius followed him, still talking, “I just thought that would be good, because it’s the middle of nowhere, so I can be there too. I hate the idea of you going off to meetings and me staying put.”
雷穆斯走进了厨房，小天狼星跟在他后面，继续说：“我只是觉得那样会很好，因为那是在荒郊野外，我也可以去那里。我讨厌你去开会而我却呆在这里的想法。”

“Don’t you like it here?” Remus raised an eyebrow. He loved his little flat, “Other than Hogwarts, it’s the only place I’ve ever really felt at home.”
“你不喜欢这里吗？”雷穆斯挑了挑眉。他喜欢他的小公寓，“除了霍格沃茨，这里是我唯一真正感到家的地方。”

“Oh Remus.” Sirius squeezed his arm, “You’ve gone all soft in your old age.”
“哦，雷穆斯。”小天狼星捏了捏他的胳膊，“你在老年时变得如此柔软。”

“Piss off.” Remus snorted, giving him a light nudge with his elbow. “We didn’t all grow up in mansions.”
“滚开。”雷穆斯哼了一声，用肘部轻轻碰了他一下。“我们不是都在豪宅里长大的。”

“No but-- hey! Hey, Remus, that’s it!” Sirius was shaking his shoulder now, jogging Remus as he tried to pour the milk.
“不是，但是——嘿！嘿，雷穆斯，就这样！”小天狼星现在在摇他的肩膀，一边让雷穆斯在试图倒牛奶的时候晃动。

“Oi, watch it! What?”
“喂，小心点！什么事？”

“My mansion! Or it’s mine now, anyway - my parents are both dead, I’m the Black heir! The house will answer to me!”
“我的豪宅！或者说现在是我的——我父母都死了，我是布莱克家族的继承人！这座房子会听我的！”

“Oh, I see,” Remus frowned, turning to look at Sirius properly, “Are you sure? I mean… you really want to go back there?”
“哦，我明白了，”雷穆斯皱起了眉头，转身正视小天狼星，“你确定吗？我意思是……你真的想回到那里吗？”

“Well, no, obviously I don’t. But it’s probably one of the most protected houses in Britain - the Blacks took home security really bloody seriously. There are enough rooms for all the Weasleys and then some - oh merlin, imagine my bitch mother’s face if she knew I’d invited the Weasleys over to stay! It’s something I can do to help, isn’t it?”
“嗯，显然我不想。不过那可能是英国最受保护的房子之一——布莱克家族对家庭安全非常重视。房子里有足够的房间给所有的韦斯利一家，还有更多——哦，梅林，想象一下我那个讨厌的母亲的脸，如果她知道我邀请了韦斯利一家来住！这是我能做的帮助，不是吗？”

“But Sirius, think about it, you’ll be in the home your parents lived in - all their things will be there…”
“但是小天狼星，想想看，你会在你父母曾经住过的家里——他们的所有东西都会在那儿……”

“We’ll chuck it all out,” Sirius waved a hand, “And it’s so safe - a safe place for Harry, Remus.”
“我们会把所有东西都扔掉，”小天狼星挥了挥手，“而且那里非常安全——对哈利来说是一个安全的地方，雷穆斯。”

“It does sound…” Remus thought hard, coming around to the idea. “If you’re sure ?”
“确实听起来……”雷穆斯深思熟虑，渐渐接受了这个想法。“如果你确定的话？”

“Of course I am! And anyway, it won’t be half as grim if I have you there with me, will it?”
“当然确定！而且，即使我有你在那儿，也不会那么阴郁的，不是吗？”

“Ha,” Remus poked him, “Now who’s gone soft?”
“哈，”雷穆斯戳了戳他，“现在谁变软了？”

They got in touch with Dumbledore via the fireplace, and even he sounded impressed with this idea. He wanted to know how to get in, what sort of charms and curses Sirius knew about, how soon he could alert the Order.
他们通过壁炉联系了邓布利多，连他也对这个想法感到印象深刻。他想知道如何进入，了解小天狼星知道的各种咒语和诅咒，以及他什么时候可以通知凤凰社。

“We’ll need to give the place a proper clean,” Sirius said, eagerly, “It’ll be full of junk, but I can help, if I’m going to be there all the time, and no one is better with magical pests than Remus!”
“我们需要对那个地方进行彻底清洁，”小天狼星热切地说，“那里会满是垃圾，但如果我要一直在那儿，我可以帮忙，而没有人比雷穆斯更擅长处理魔法害虫了！”

“An excellent idea, gentlemen,” Dumbledore’s eyes twinkled through the flames, “And right under Voldemort’s nose - in the home of his most loyal supporters! How soon can you both get there?”
“一个很好的主意，先生们，”邓布利多的眼睛在火焰中闪烁，“而且就在伏地魔的鼻子下——在他最忠实的支持者的家中！你们两个人什么时候能到那儿？”

“Tomorrow.” Remus said, quickly, because he knew Sirius had been about to say ‘right now!’ “We’ll go after dark, so it’s less suspicious.”
“明天。”雷穆斯迅速说道，因为他知道小天狼星本来要说‘现在就去！’“我们晚上天黑后去，这样就不那么引人注目了。”

“Good man, Lupin,” Dumbledore said, “In that case I shall await word from you.”
“好样的，雷穆斯，”邓布利多说，“那样的话，我会等你们的消息。”

His face vanished in a puff of smoke.
他的脸在一阵烟雾中消失了。

“Yes, Moony! Sorry, Remus…” Sirius cheered. “Amazing! Let's pack!”
“是的，月亮！抱歉，雷穆斯……”小天狼星欢呼道。“太棒了！我们来打包吧！”

Of course, Sirius had barely anything to pack, and was much too excited to be sensible anyway. That was left up to Remus, who began making a list of all the things they would need - books of course, all the notes from the first war. Clothes, food, bedsheets - Remus didn’t know how long Grimmauld Place had stood empty, he wasn't sure if any of it would be salvageable.
当然，小天狼星几乎没有什么东西需要打包，而且他太兴奋了，无法保持理智。这个任务留给了雷穆斯，他开始列出他们需要的所有东西的清单——当然是书，还有第一次战争的所有笔记。衣物、食物、床单——雷穆斯不知道格里莫德广场空置了多久，他不确定这些东西是否还可以使用。

“I can finally show you my bedroom!” Sirius trilled, “Ooh, teenage me would be so jealous, getting Remus Lupin in my bedroom!”
“我终于可以给你看看我的卧室了！”小天狼星欢呼道，“哦，青少年时期的我会非常嫉妒，能在我的卧室里得到雷穆斯·路平！”

“Ha,” Remus snorted, folding up robes and stuffing them into his trunk.
“哈，”雷穆斯哼了一声，把长袍叠起来塞进他的行李箱里。

“And just wait until Harry arrives! We can sort out a room for him, and when the war's over, it'll be his…”
“等哈利来了再说！我们可以为他安排一个房间，战争结束后，那将是他的……”

Remus smiled and kissed him and agreed it would all be lovely, it would be an adventure, because that was what Sirius needed from him just then. And he was determined to do everything Sirius needed for as long as he could.
雷穆斯微笑着吻了他，同意这一切都会很美好，这将是一次冒险，因为那正是小天狼星此刻需要他的。他决心尽可能满足小天狼星的所有需求。

“I can’t wait to see Andromeda - and her kid! Must be in seventh year now, surely? Hey, imagine if she and Harry fall in love, how completely mental would that be? Then he'd be… what, my second cousin?”
“我迫不及待想见到安德romeda——和她的孩子！现在肯定已经是七年级了吧？嘿，想象一下如果她和哈利坠入爱河，那会多么疯狂？那他会是……什么，我的表亲吗？”

“Once removed, or something like that,” Remus acknowledged, “What are you talking about, anyway, they're almost a decade apart. We were thirteen when Andromeda had that kid.”
“一次移除，或者类似的东西，”雷穆斯确认道，“你到底在说什么，他们差不多有十岁。安德romeda生下那个孩子时我们才十三岁。”

“And Moody, the old codger, and Arthur, and Gideon and…”
“还有穆迪，那老家伙，还有亚瑟，吉迪恩和……”

“Sirius, no,” Remus said, gently, “Remember, Gid and Fab died.”
“小天狼星，不要，”雷穆斯温柔地说，“记住，吉德和法布死了。”

“Oh… oh yeah…” Sirius's face fell, and Remus felt dreadful. Perhaps he couldn't just go along with everything. He touched Sirius's hand, “It's ok, you're already remembering things much better than a few weeks ago.”
“哦……哦，对了……”小天狼星的脸色沉了下来，雷穆斯感到非常难过。也许他不能只是顺应一切。他摸了摸小天狼星的手，“没关系，你的记忆已经比几周前好多了。”

“Maybe.” Sirius said, uncertain. He rubbed his arm. “I think I'll go and have a rest, if that's ok?”
“也许吧。”小天狼星不确定地说。他搓了搓手臂。“我想我去休息一下，没关系吧？”

“Of course.”
“当然。”

Remus finished all of the packing, and when he went back to the living room, Padfoot was curled up on the couch again.
雷穆斯完成了所有的打包，当他回到客厅时，帕德福特又蜷缩在沙发上。

They ate a light meal for dinner, and Remus had the TV on because it was his last night around all of his muggle comforts. They still decided to take all of their old records - though plenty had warped over time, and gave off an unpleasant hissing sound over the music. With everything packed away in trunks and boxes, it felt very final, to Remus. But perhaps that was just nerves.
他们吃了简单的晚餐，雷穆斯开着电视，因为这是他在所有麻瓜舒适设施中度过的最后一晚。他们还是决定带上所有的旧唱片——虽然很多唱片由于时间的推移已经变形，发出不愉快的嘶嘶声。所有东西都打包在行李箱和盒子里，雷穆斯感到一切似乎非常终结。但也许这只是紧张。

He tried to stay calm, watching the sky outside turn a deeper shade of blue, the streetlights turning from pale pink to thick amber, and the stars beginning to show. Light pollution in London meant that stars were rare - you could only make out the very brightest ones.
他努力保持平静，看着外面的天空变成更深的蓝色，街灯从浅粉色变成浓厚的琥珀色，星星开始出现。伦敦的光污染使得星星很稀少——你只能看到最亮的几颗。

Sirius's head was nodding against his shoulder already, as the tv announced the nine o'clock news. Remus yawned and flicked his wand at the screen, turning it off for the last time. “Oi,” he whispered to Sirius, “Come on, let’s go to bed.”
当电视宣布九点新闻时，小天狼星的头已经在他的肩膀上点来点去。雷穆斯打了个哈欠，用魔杖轻轻一挥，关闭了屏幕，“喂，”他对小天狼星低声说，“来吧，我们上床睡觉。”

“Mmph.”
“嗯。”

Remus had to shake him a bit, but finally Sirius staggered up and wandered zombie-like down the hall. Remus brushed his teeth and washed his face, then followed him in.
雷穆斯不得不稍微摇醒他，但最终小天狼星摇摇晃晃地站起来，像僵尸一样在走廊里徘徊。雷穆斯刷牙洗脸，然后跟了进去。

Sirius was standing beside the bed, biting his lip.
小天狼星站在床边，咬着嘴唇。

“Come on,” Remus yawned, climbing under the covers, “What's wrong?”
“快点，”雷穆斯打了个哈欠，爬上被窝，“怎么了？”

“Um. Nothing.” Sirius got in, slowly.
“嗯。没事。”小天狼星慢慢地上了床。

Remus pulled him close, so happy to have him near again. He wrapped his arms around Sirius's body and inhaled the scent of him, and buried his face in that beautiful hair. He felt so good. He felt complete. He kissed Sirius’s cheek, searching for his mouth, “Love you.”
雷穆斯把他紧紧抱住，非常高兴再次把他拥在身边。他环抱着小天狼星的身体，吸入他的气息，把脸埋在那美丽的头发里。他感到非常舒适。感到完整。他吻了吻小天狼星的脸颊，寻找他的嘴唇，“爱你。”

“Love you too.” Sirius returned, though he was very tense, and turned his head away.
“我也爱你。”小天狼星回应道，尽管他非常紧张，转过头去。

“What's wrong?” Remus asked, pulling away, “Am I being too…?”
“怎么了？”雷穆斯问，拉开一点距离，“我是不是太……？”

“No, I just…” Sirius pulled back too. “Sorry, I just don't think I can… you know, any more.”
“不是的，我只是……”小天狼星也后退了一步。“抱歉，我只是觉得我可能……你知道的，再也不行了。”

“Oh.” Remus blinked, “Oh, Jesus, sorry, I didn't mean to… of course not, if you don't want to.”
“哦。”雷穆斯眨了眨眼，“哦，天啊，抱歉，我不是那个意思……当然了，如果你不想的话。”

“No, I want to,” Sirius squirmed, “I'm just not sure I can. Since Azkaban… um. There's not really been a lot ‘going on’, if you know what I mean. I might not… er. I just don't want you to think it's you.”
“不，我想要，”小天狼星扭动道，“我只是没把握。我在阿兹卡班之后……嗯。没有发生太多的事情，如果你懂我的意思。我可能……呃。我只是希望你不要觉得是你的问题。”

“ Oh!” Remus blinked again. He didn't really know what to say, or what to do. This was not a problem he'd ever encountered before. He wanted to be kind. “I’m just glad you're here,” he said, truthfully. “I don't need anything else.”
“哦！”雷穆斯再次眨了眨眼。他真的不知道该说什么，或者该怎么做。这是他从未遇到过的问题。他想要温柔。“我只是很高兴你在这里，”他说，真心话。“我不需要其他任何东西。”

“Really?”
“真的吗？”

“ Really.”
“真的。”

Sirius turned around, and took Remus's face in his hands, and kissed him, long and deep. That would have been enough; truly, honestly. Remus would have been happy with Sirius's lips, Sirius's taste and scent. But after a while, Sirius pulled back, and grinned,
小天狼星转过身来，用手捧住雷穆斯的脸，深情而漫长地吻了他。这已经足够了；真的，诚实地说。雷穆斯会很满足于小天狼星的嘴唇、小天狼星的味道和气息。但过了一会儿，小天狼星退开，露出了笑容，

“Doesn't mean I don't want you to try…”
“这并不意味着我不想让你尝试……”

And Remus just about dissolved.
雷穆斯几乎被融化了。

It took a very long time. There had to be a lot more kissing, a lot more coaxing and gentle caresses and heated whispers; it took hours and hours. But how could Remus complain, when he finally had Sirius sighing in his arms again? It was so tender and so, so beautiful.
这花了很长时间。需要更多的亲吻，更多的劝说和温柔的抚摸和热切的耳语；花了几个小时。但雷穆斯怎么会抱怨呢，当他终于再次抱着小天狼星时，小天狼星在他的怀里叹息。那是如此温柔，如此美丽。

Afterwards they lay exhausted, and hot, and happy. Remus felt as if every hair on his body was singing; every nerve ending humming. Sirius curled into his body, and stroked his scars, like he used to.
之后，他们躺在一起，疲惫、炎热而幸福。雷穆斯感觉到自己身体上的每根汗毛都在歌唱；每根神经末梢都在嗡嗡作响。小天狼星蜷缩在他的身体里，像以前一样抚摸着他的伤疤。

“Hmmm.”
“嗯。”

“Hmmm.”
“嗯。”

“Remus?”
“雷穆斯？”

“Yes?”
“是的？”

“Can I ask you one question?”
“我可以问你一个问题吗？”

“Oh,” Remus smiled, “If you really must.”
“哦，”雷穆斯微笑着，“如果你真的必须的话。”

“What have you been doing all these years, Moon--sorry.”
“这些年来你在做什么，月亮——对不起。”

“No, it’s ok. Call me Moony.”
“没关系。叫我月亮就好。”

“Moony.” he sighed, happily, “What have you been doing? When we called around everybody - they were as surprised to see you as me. They all said they hadn’t seen you for a long time.”
“小天狼星。”他幸福地叹了口气，“你这些年在做什么？当我们给大家打电话时——他们对见到你感到惊讶。他们都说很久没见到你了。”

“Since the war.” Remus confirmed. “Since Lily and James.”
“自从战争以来。”雷穆斯确认道。“自从莉莉和詹姆斯。”

“Why?” Sirius asked, frowning.
“为什么？”小天狼星皱着眉头问。

“I couldn’t bear it.” Remus said, simply. “Being around anyone who knew what had happened. I’ve seen Mary once or twice, but no one else. I wanted to be alone.”
“我无法忍受。”雷穆斯简单地说。“待在知道发生了什么事的人身边。我见过玛丽一两次，但没有其他人。我想要独处。”

Sirius shook his head, looking frustrated. “I don’t understand you, Moony.”
小天狼星摇了摇头，显得有些沮丧。“我不理解你，月亮。”

“No,” Remus smiled softly, “No, you never did, quite.”
“不，”雷穆斯柔和地笑了，“不，你从来没有完全理解过。”

“Fair enough.” Sirius accepted.
“那也够公平的。”小天狼星接受了。

He lay back onto Remus, with his whole weight - though that wasn’t much. It was pathetic, really. Two bony, wiry men, clinging together; both old before their time, and both so lost.
他把身体全力靠在雷穆斯身上——虽然那并不重。真的很可怜。两个骨瘦如柴的男人，紧紧相依；都在时光前显得苍老，都迷失了自我。

They had never understood each other, not really.
他们从未真正理解对方。

“You always tried, though.” Remus said, into Sirius’s hair. He wrapped an arm around him and kissed his head. “You still knew more than anyone else ever has. Ever will.”
“不过你一直在努力。”雷穆斯在小天狼星的头发里说道。他环住他，吻了吻他的头。“你仍然比任何其他人都更了解我。”

“Even though I thought you were--”
“即使我认为你是——”

“We don’t need to talk about that.”
“我们不需要讨论那个。”

Sirius gave half a sigh, and Remus knew he disapproved, but they’d done enough talking, for now. They were quiet for a long time, and Remus closed his eyes.
小天狼星叹了口气，雷穆斯知道他不赞成，但现在他们已经谈够了。他们安静了很久，雷穆斯闭上了眼睛。

Finally, Sirius spoke.
最后，小天狼星开口了。

“Even if we don’t talk about it, don’t you think we ought to try to forgive each other?”
“即使我们不谈论它，你不觉得我们应该尝试原谅彼此吗？”

“You sound like Dumbledore.” Remus snorted.
“你听起来像邓布利多。”雷穆斯哼了一声。

“Ha.” Sirius said. “Yeah, you’re right. Can you believe we’re back following orders from that old fool? I s’pose I don’t really know much about forgiveness.”
“哈。”小天狼星说。“是的，你说得对。你能相信我们又回到听那个老傻瓜的命令了吗？我想我真的不太了解宽恕。”

“Me neither.” Remus sighed.
“我也是。”雷穆斯叹了口气。

“I don’t know if it’s worth anything, really, with lives as short as ours.” Sirius said, sadly, “I think at this point, there’s only love and hate.”
“我不知道这是否真的有价值，考虑到我们如此短暂的生命。”小天狼星悲伤地说，“我认为到这个时候，只有爱和恨。”

“That’s very fatalistic of you.” Remus commented, “I thought I was supposed to be the pessimist.”
“你真是很悲观。”雷穆斯评论道，“我还以为我应该是悲观主义者。”

Sirius shuddered slightly, which Remus took for a laugh. He squeezed him tighter, and kissed his shoulder. “Love and hate.” He murmured, thoughtfully.
小天狼星轻微地颤抖了一下，雷穆斯以为这是在笑。他紧紧握住他，吻了吻他的肩膀。“爱和恨。”他若有所思地喃喃道。

“Love or hate, I s’pose.” Sirius clarified. “You make a choice.”
“我想是爱还是恨。”小天狼星澄清道。“你得做出选择。”

“It’s that simple, then?”
“就这么简单吗？”

“Yeah. I think it is.” Sirius reached for his hand under the duvet. He looked up at Remus, eyes now icy grey, but as piercing as ever. He was asking a question.
“是的。我认为是的。”小天狼星伸手去握雷穆斯的手。他抬起头看着雷穆斯，眼睛现在是冰冷的灰色，但依然犀利。他在问一个问题。

Remus squeezed his hand in answer,
雷穆斯握紧他的手回答，

“Love.” He said.
“爱。”他说。

And then he kissed him.
然后他吻了吻他。

 

END

AfterwordPlease drop by the Archive and comment to let the creator know if you enjoyed their work!

