Title : What's Past is Prologue
Author: ABitofWit
Description: <p>It's eight years after the war and Hermione Granger has taken a break from her career at the Ministry of Magic to compile an oral history of the conflict. She's interviewed just about everyone she can get her hands on but she wants to be thorough. And that means getting in contact with a very unwilling Lucius Malfoy.</p><p>- - - - -</p><p>"For your information, I'm not shopping it around yet because I still don’t have access to all of the sources I need.”</p><p>“You’ve got to be joking. You must have interviewed every living person that was even tangentially connected to the war.”</p><p>“Not everyone,” Hermione said, turning in her seat to reach up for the mug of tea she’d left on the kitchen counter.</p><p>“Who’s left? The trolley lady from the Hogwarts Express?”</p><p>“Your father.”</p><p>Malfoy opened his mouth and then closed it again with a click of his teeth, shaking his head. “You don’t want to do that, Granger.”</p>




Preface
前言What's Past is Prologue
过去的是序幕
Posted originally on the Archive of Our Own at http://archiveofourown.org/works/36025255. 
最初发布在 http://archiveofourown.org/works/36025255 的 Archive of Our Own 上。

Rating:
额定值：Explicit
明确Archive Warning:
存档警告：Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings
Creator 选择不使用存档警告Category:
类别：F/MFandom:
影迷：Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling
哈利波特 - JK 罗琳Relationship:
关系：Hermione Granger/Lucius Malfoy
赫敏·格兰杰 / 卢修斯·马尔福Characters:
字符：Hermione Granger, Lucius Malfoy, Harry Potter, Ginny Weasley, Ron Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood, Narcissa Black Malfoy, Draco Malfoy
赫敏·格兰杰、卢修斯·马尔福、哈利·波特、金妮·韦斯莱、罗恩·韦斯莱、纳威·隆巴顿、卢娜·洛夫古德、纳西莎·布莱克·马尔福、德拉科·马尔福Additional Tags:
其他标签：Slow Burn, Romance, Enemies to Lovers, Post-War, Conversations, Lucius Malfoy Being an Asshole, Bigotry & Prejudice, Sexual Tension, Eventual Smut, Eventual Romance, Smut, Implied/Referenced Alcohol Abuse/Alcoholism, Happy Ending
慢燃，浪漫，恋人的敌人，战后，对话，卢修斯·马尔福是个混蛋，偏执与偏见，性紧张，最终的色情，最终的浪漫，色情，暗示/提及的酒精滥用/酗酒，幸福结局Language:
语言：English
英语Collections:
收集：pensieve of my own, More Addictive than Dark Magic, Pensieve, I Love Shipping Unattainable Couples, ♕ Brightest Witch of Her Age ♕, ☆ Potterette's Neverland Treasure ☆, ⚲ coppia di tesori ⚲, The Best of Hermione Granger
我自己的 Pensieve， 比黑魔法更令人上瘾， Pensieve， 我爱航运高不可攀的情侣， ♕ 她这个年龄♕最聪明的女巫， ☆ Potterette 的梦幻岛宝藏 ☆， ⚲ coppia di tesori ⚲ ， 赫敏·格兰杰的最佳之选Stats:
统计：Published: 2021-12-28 Completed: 2022-11-26 Words: 244,611 Chapters: 43/43 
发布时间：2021-12-28 完成时间：2022-11-26 字数：244,611 章数：43/43What's Past is Prologue
过去的是序幕by ABitofWit
作者：ABitofWitSummary
总结

It's eight years after the war and Hermione Granger has taken a break from her career at the Ministry of Magic to compile an oral history of the conflict. She's interviewed just about everyone she can get her hands on but she wants to be thorough. And that means getting in contact with a very unwilling Lucius Malfoy.
战后八年，赫敏·格兰杰 （Hermione Granger） 从魔法部的职业生涯中抽身出来，编纂了一场冲突的口述历史。她几乎采访了所有她能接触到的人，但她想做到彻底。而这意味着要与一个非常不情愿的卢修斯·马尔福取得联系。

- - - - -

"For your information, I'm not shopping it around yet because I still don’t have access to all of the sources I need.”
“供您参考，我还没有货比三家，因为我仍然无法获得我需要的所有资源。”

“You’ve got to be joking. You must have interviewed every living person that was even tangentially connected to the war.”
“你得在开玩笑。你一定采访过每一个活着的人，哪怕是与战争有直接联系的人。

“Not everyone,” Hermione said, turning in her seat to reach up for the mug of tea she’d left on the kitchen counter.
“不是所有人，”赫敏说，在座位上转过身来，伸手去拿她留在厨房柜台上的茶杯。

“Who’s left? The trolley lady from the Hogwarts Express?”
“谁还剩下？霍格沃茨特快列车的手推车女郎？

“Your father.”
“你的爸爸。”

Malfoy opened his mouth and then closed it again with a click of his teeth, shaking his head. “You don’t want to do that, Granger.”
马尔福张开嘴，然后又咬牙切齿地闭上了，摇了摇头。“你不想那样做，格兰杰。”

Notes
笔记

Had a couple of binding questions regarding this fic and just wanted to add to the start to say: bindings for personal collections is fine. Outside of that, I don't allow any of my works to be bound for commission, sale, profit or distribution. Thank you ❤️
关于这个 fic 有几个绑定问题，只想补充一下：个人收藏的绑定很好。除此之外，我不允许我的任何作品被捆绑用于佣金、销售、利润或发行。谢谢 ❤️

See the end of the work for more notes
更多注释见作品结尾Chapter 1
第一章April 12th 2006
四月 12th 2006

“Well, Malfoy, I think that’s us finally done,” Hermione Granger said, tapping her voice recorder with her wand and wearing a tired but triumphant smile.
“嗯，马尔福，我想我们终于完成了，”赫敏·格兰杰说，用魔杖敲打着她的录音机，露出疲惫但得意洋洋的笑容。

“Not before time.”
“不早于时间。”

Lifting her Quick Quotes Quill from its matching parchment mid-word, Hermione raised her eyebrow at Draco Malfoy who merely smiled thinly in response. He sat across from her at her tiny kitchen table, his back to the rain-spattered window, with a faintly steaming mug of tea clutched in his pale, long-fingered hands. It was the mug he always used during their appointments—the biggest one she owned. 
赫敏从匹配的羊皮纸上拿起她的快速语录羽毛笔，向德拉科·马尔福扬起眉毛，而德拉科·马尔福只是淡淡地笑了笑作为回应。他坐在她对面的厨房小桌子旁，背对着被雨水溅起的窗户，苍白的长手指手里攥着一杯淡淡冒着热气的茶。那是他在他们约会时总是用的杯子——她拥有的最大的杯子。

Sometimes it occurred to Hermione how strange it was that Draco Malfoy of all people was a regular visitor in her flat and that he was there often enough to have developed an attachment to one of her mugs. But so much of her life had changed over the past two years and, really, he had become one of the more pleasant additions.
有时候赫敏会想，德拉科·马尔福是她公寓的常客，而且他经常在那里，以至于对她的一个杯子产生了依恋，这是多么奇怪。但在过去的两年里，她的生活发生了很大变化，真的，他已经成为了更令人愉快的人之一。

“You’re talking like you haven’t absolutely relished talking to me about yourself for nine straight weeks,” she said, her mouth pursed sceptically. 
“你说得好像你连续九周都不喜欢和我谈论你自己，”她说，怀疑地撅起嘴巴。

“ That I enjoyed,” he said, raising a corrective finger, then lowering it to point directly at her. “And I’m certain you did, too. What I did not enjoy was sitting at this increasingly alarming table.” 
“我喜欢，”他说，举起一根纠正的手指，然后放下它直接指向她。“而且我敢肯定你也这样做了。我不喜欢的是坐在这张越来越令人担忧的桌子上。

Hermione flushed and followed Malfoy’s gaze down. The formica surface of her small, rectangular kitchen table had not been visible for a long time. It was littered with books, folders, broken quills and endless piles of parchment scrawled with notes of varying legibility. The sense of disorganisation wasn't helped, she was sure, by the fact that they were crammed into the only corner of her boxy kitchen that wasn't occupied by a counter. There was only room for three chairs around the table and with her and Draco in two of them, the third was occupied by an increasingly precarious pile of books.
赫敏涨红了脸，顺着马尔福的目光往下看。她那张长方形的小厨房桌子的富美家表面已经很久没有出现过了。它散落着书籍、文件夹、破损的羽毛笔和无尽的羊皮纸，上面潦草地写着各种易读的笔记。她确信，这种杂乱无章的感觉并没有得到帮助，因为他们被塞在她四四方方的厨房里唯一一个没有柜台的角落里。桌子周围只有三把椅子的空间，她和德拉科坐在其中两把椅子上，第三把椅子被一堆越来越不稳定的书占据。

“It’s surely a cry for help. Have you ever tidied it?”
“这肯定是求救的呼声。你整理过它吗？

Hermione shuffled her Quick Quotes notes from that day into their own pile and marked them with a green sticker. Getting to her feet, she assessed the table with a frown, trying to determine the route through the mess that would cause the least amount of disturbance.
赫敏把她那天的快速报价笔记整理成一堆，然后用绿色的贴纸标记它们。她站起来，皱着眉头打量着桌子，试图确定穿过这片混乱的路线，才能造成最少的干扰。

“It’s an organised mess,” she murmured, tutting as she peered around different piles without touching them to find where she’d last placed Malfoy’s folder. “I know where everything is. Eventually.”
“真是一团糟，”她喃喃自语着，一边啧啧称奇地环顾着不同的书堆，却没有碰到它们，以找到她上次把马尔福的文件夹放在哪里。“我知道所有东西都在哪里。最终。

“You need an actual work space, Granger. This flat is barely large enough to live in, never mind to live in and to work in.”
“你需要一个真正的工作空间，格兰杰。这套公寓勉强够住，更不用说住和工作了。

“Well, we don’t all have manors to swan around in, Malfoy,” Hermione said scathingly. With a small whoop she found the folder she was looking for and slid his notes into it. Finally looking up, she found him watching her with faint exasperation. “This is all the space I have and I’ve managed for almost two years. It’s fine .”
“嗯，我们可不是都有庄园可以四处逛逛的，马尔福，”赫敏严厉地说。她呐喊一声，找到了她要找的文件夹，把他的笔记滑进去。最后，她抬起头来，发现他带着淡淡的恼怒看着她。“这就是我拥有的全部空间，我已经管理了将近两年。没关系。

“Seems it.” His tone was dry as he lifted his mug up for a drink, only to find that a sheet of parchment was stuck to its bottom. “I’d just like to be sure that I’m contributing to an academic work of value rather than an absolute bloody shambles.”
“好像。”当他举起杯子喝水时，他的语气很干涩，却发现一张羊皮纸粘在了它的底部。“我只是想确保我正在为一项有价值的学术工作做出贡献，而不是绝对的血腥混乱。”

He gingerly peeled the parchment away from his mug with a pointed look and Hermione reached out to snatch it from him. “You are contributing to a work of value. Oral history is a rapidly developing and valuable field of research and documentation.”
他小心翼翼地把羊皮纸从杯子上剥下来，目光尖锐地看着赫敏，赫敏伸手从他手里抢过来。“你正在为一项有价值的工作做出贡献。口述历史是一个快速发展且有价值的研究和记录领域。

“I’ll take your word for it.” Malfoy took another sip of his tea. “I also won’t miss that stupid little thing.” He nodded disdainfully at Hermione’s voice recorder and she made an offended noise, snatching it up from the table. 
“我会相信你的话。”马尔福又喝了一口茶。“我也不会错过那个愚蠢的小东西。”他轻蔑地对赫敏的录音机点了点头，她发出了冒犯的声音，从桌子上抢了过来。

It was a Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes product and Hermione’s favourite invention of George’s by far. Shaped like a tiny gramophone, it was charmed to record sound and spit it back out. It was much like a magical tape recorder, which made sense because George had made it after Hermione had introduced him to the concept of mix tapes. Fascinated, he’d been adamant that Angelina would have to have the magical equivalent for Valentine’s Day even if he had to make it himself. So he had. And Hermione had purchased one for each of her interviewees. 
这是韦斯莱的巫师喘息产品，也是赫敏迄今为止最喜欢的乔治发明。它的形状像一台小留声机，它被吸引来录制声音并将其吐出。它很像一个神奇的录音机，这是有道理的，因为乔治是在赫敏向他介绍混音带的概念后制作的。他着迷了，一直坚持认为安吉丽娜必须拥有相当于情人节的魔法，即使他必须自己制作。所以他做到了。赫敏已经为她的每个受访者买了一本。

“Excuse me, I think it’s clever and adorable. And extremely useful.”
“对不起，我觉得它很聪明，很可爱。而且非常有用。

“Why do I feel like that’s exactly the kind of thing you’d like someone to say about you,” Malfoy said, his lip curled. Hermione flushed and placed the Wheezebox back on the table.
“为什么我觉得那正是你希望别人对你说的那种话，”马尔福说，他的嘴唇弯了起来。赫敏脸红了，把喘息盒放回桌子上。

“I suppose now that you’ve got everything you need from me, I’m never going to hear from you again.” He placed a mocking hand over his heart. “You do know how to make a man feel cheap, Granger.”
“我想现在你已经从我这里得到了你需要的一切，我再也不会收到你的消息了。”他用一只嘲弄的手捂住了自己的心。“你确实知道如何让男人觉得自己很贱，格兰杰。”

“Oh, no, I’m afraid you’ve definitely not seen the last of me. I’ll be back in touch as I put your sections together. I might need to clarify some things with you. I imagine you’ll want to cast your eye over some proofs, too. I’m more than happy for you to have an input—a small input—until publication.”
“哦，不，恐怕你肯定没有看到我的最后一面。我会在整理您的部分时与您联系。我可能需要和你澄清一些事情。我想你也会想把目光投向一些证明。我非常高兴你能在出版之前有意见——一个小小的意见。

“And do you have a publisher yet?”
“那你有出版商吗？”

“No,” Hermione said, dropping into her seat with a frown at Draco. “But that’s only because I’ve not been shopping a proposal around.”
“不，”赫敏说，皱着眉头看着德拉科坐进座位。“但那只是因为我没有四处寻找提案。”

“Granger, just let me help you. The family name is far from what it was but I might be able to sway a few people. I could mention that you’re working on something and I’m sure they’ll snap it up. War hero bookworm writes war book.” He raised his hands in the air as though imagining the words on a poster. “Guaranteed interest. We’ll leave off the history part. Boring." Ignoring her huff of indignation, he added, "Not decided on the oral aspect. It could be good if we want to reach an audience that reads words but doesn't take in full sentences. Maybe ask Weasley about that."
“格兰杰，让我来帮你。这个姓氏与原来的样子相去甚远，但我也许能够影响一些人。我可以提到你正在做一些事情，我相信他们会抢购一空。战争英雄书写战争书。他将双手举向空中，仿佛在想象海报上的文字。“保证利息。我们先不讲历史部分。无聊。他无视了她的愤怒，补充道，“口头方面还没决定。如果我们想吸引一个能读字但不听完整句的受众，那就太好了。也许可以问问韦斯莱。

"Oh, for goodness sake," Hermione muttered. "For your information, I'm not shopping it around yet because I still don’t have access to all of the sources I need.”
“哦，看在老天爷的份上，”赫敏咕哝道。“供您参考，我还没有货比三家，因为我仍然无法获得我需要的所有资源。”

“You’ve got to be joking. You must have interviewed every living person that was even tangentially connected to the war.”
“你得在开玩笑。你一定采访过每一个活着的人，哪怕是与战争有直接联系的人。

“Not everyone ,” Hermione said, turning in her seat to reach up for the mug of tea she’d left on the kitchen counter.
“不是所有人，”赫敏说，在座位上转过身来，伸手去拿她留在厨房柜台上的那杯茶。

“Who’s left? The trolley lady from the Hogwarts Express?”
“谁还剩下？霍格沃茨特快列车的手推车女郎？

“Your father.”
“你的爸爸。”

Malfoy opened his mouth and then closed it again with a click of his teeth, shaking his head. “You don’t want to do that, Granger.”
马尔福张开嘴，然后又咬牙切齿地闭上了，摇了摇头。“你不想那样做，格兰杰。”

“Of course I do. The whole point of what I’m doing is to gather a variety of perspectives on the war and there are so few people from…”
“我当然知道。我所做的全部意义在于收集关于战争的各种观点，而来自......”

“My side.”
“我这边。”

“That’s not what I was going to say.”
“我不是想说的。”

“Well, you can say it. You were probably thinking it.”
“嗯，你可以这么说。你可能在想。

Hermione sighed, now deeply familiar with the way Malfoy tended to seize on every opportunity to invite people to treat him with disgust or disdain for his actions during the war. She always stepped around it where she could, though there were times when he made that difficult for her. “There are so few people who fought with Voldemort who are in any position to speak to me about their experiences.”
赫敏叹了口气，现在已经非常熟悉马尔福倾向于抓住每一个机会邀请人们对他感到厌恶或鄙视他在战争期间的行为的方式。她总是尽可能地绕过它，尽管有时他会让她感到困难。“很少有人和伏地魔一起战斗过，他们能和我谈论他们的经历。”

“You have me, is that not enough? I told you everything I went through during the war. You probably have the colour of pants I was wearing each day noted down in that folder somewhere.”
“你有我，这还不够吗？我告诉了你在战争期间经历的一切。你可能把我每天穿的裤子的颜色记在那个文件夹的某个地方。

“You have told me everything and it’s been fantastic ,” Hermione said. “But your father was there for two wars and he managed to survive both of them. He’d be an invaluable source.”
“你什么都告诉我了，这真是太棒了，”赫敏说。“但你父亲在那里参加了两场战争，他设法在两场战争中幸存下来。他将是一个非常宝贵的来源。

Draco drummed his fingers against the edge of his mug, his fingernails making a series of small tings as they bounced off the porcelain. “Look, I won’t stop you from asking him but the answer will be no.”
德拉科用手指敲打着杯子的边缘，他的指甲在瓷器上弹开时发出一连串的小叮叮当当。“听着，我不会阻止你问他，但答案是否定的。”

Shifting in her seat, Hermione looked down into her tea. “I have and it was. Multiple times.”
赫敏在座位上挪动了一下，低头看着她的茶。“我有，而且曾经是。好几次。

“ Granger .” Malfoy sounded exasperated and she looked up to see that, indeed, he was. “How have you been asking him? He’s been locked in the manor for eight years .”
“格兰杰。”马尔福听起来很生气，她抬起头来，发现他确实是。“你最近怎么问他？他已经被锁在庄园里八年了。

“I’ve been sending owls.” Hermione ran a finger around the rim of her cup, her gaze sliding over Draco’s shoulder to look out the window at the wet April weather. “For a few weeks now. He hasn’t answered a single one.”
“我一直在送猫头鹰。”赫敏用一根手指在她的杯边滑过，她的目光从德拉科的肩膀上滑过，看着窗外潮湿的四月天气。“现在已经有几周了。他一个都没回答。

Draco made a sound that was somewhere between a laugh and a moan of anguish. “So that’s why he’s been so irritable recently. Stop sending owls, Granger. One day one of them won’t come back and you’ll have that on your conscience.”
德拉科发出的声音介于笑声和痛苦的呻吟之间。“所以这就是他最近如此烦躁的原因。别再派猫头鹰了，格兰杰。总有一天，他们中的一个不会回来，你会良心无愧的。

“I thought maybe if you asked him—” Hermione began but Draco immediately shook his head and held up a hand. 
“我想，如果你问他——”赫敏开始说话，但德拉科立刻摇了摇头，举起了一只手。

“He’ll still say no.” At Hermione’s look of scepticism, Draco slid his mug to the side and leaned towards her, his elbow balanced on a book. “Granger, I live in the manor with him and he barely talks to me . I see him maybe once every four or five days and if I’m lucky I’ll get a full conversation out of him. Between the house arrest and the Magic Dampener, he’s not really been the most...agreeable company.”
“他还是会说不。”看着赫敏怀疑的眼神，德拉科把杯子滑到一边，靠向她，他的胳膊肘在一本书上保持平衡。“格兰杰，我和他住在庄园里，他几乎不和我说话。我可能每四五天见他一次，如果幸运的话，我会和他进行一次完整的交谈。在软禁和魔法阻尼器之间，他并不是真正最......令人愉快的伙伴。

Crossing her arms, Hermione leaned back in her seat. “Doesn’t he see that he’s pretty lucky to have avoided Azkaban? I mean—”
赫敏交叉双臂，向后靠在座位上。“他难道没有看到他很幸运地避开了阿兹卡班吗？我是说——”

“Yes,” Draco tilted his head and gave her a penetrating look. “I’m sure marching into his home and taking that approach is guaranteed to break through his barriers and unlock the loquacious man that still lies beneath.”
“是的，”德拉科歪着头，狠狠地看了她一眼。“我敢肯定，走进他的家并采取这种方法肯定会突破他的障碍，解开仍然隐藏在下面的懒散男人。”

Hermione flushed and shifted, not entirely sure why she felt a twinge of guilt. “Surely there must be something that would convince him.”
赫敏脸红了，动了动，不完全确定她为什么会感到一阵内疚。“肯定有什么东西能说服他。”

“I can hardly see what you can offer him. He’s short on freedom and magic but he’s still got plenty of money. And, no offence, but while I think company would be good for him I’m not sure he’d relish yours.”
“我几乎看不出你能给他什么。他缺乏自由和魔法，但他仍然有很多钱。而且，没有冒犯，但虽然我认为有人陪伴对他有好处，但我不确定他会不会喜欢你的。

They fell into silence, the only sounds being a steady drip coming from Hermione’s kitchen tap and the gentle patter of the rain against the window. Taking a drink, Hermione assessed Draco over the rim of her mug. He was skim-reading the top sheet of a pile of parchment that sat by his elbow. The red sticker told her it was a section of her interviews with McGonagall. She’d gathered so many perspectives from the war. Harry, Ron and the rest of the surviving Weasleys, of course, as well as many of the surviving members of the Order. Even Aberforth had consented to speak with her. 
他们陷入了沉默，唯一的声音是赫敏厨房水龙头不断滴落的声音和雨水轻轻拍打窗户的声音。赫敏喝了一口，隔着杯子的边缘打量着德拉科。他正在略读放在他手肘边的一堆羊皮纸的顶页。红色贴纸告诉她，这是她对麦格采访的一部分。她从战争中收集了很多观点。当然，哈利、罗恩和其他幸存的韦斯莱一家，以及许多幸存的骑士团成员。就连阿不福思也同意和她谈谈。

Draco had been a particularly big win. It had taken weeks of pestering just to get him to agree to meet her. But she was determined that she wouldn’t just record the voices of the Order; she wanted to connect narratives from across the battlefields for a more complete picture. Draco had, after much back and forth, come to appreciate what she was trying to do and believed that she wasn’t trying to trap him into some humiliating exposé. 
德拉科是一场特别大的胜利。他花了好几个星期的纠缠才让他同意见她。但她决心不只是记录教团的声音;她想将来自各个战场的叙述联系起来，以获得更完整的画面。经过多次来回，德拉科已经明白了她想要做的事情，并相信她并不是想让他陷入某种羞辱性的揭露中。

With so many former Death Eaters dead or locked in the depths of Azkaban, in some senses she needed Lucius Malfoy. He had been in Voldemort’s inner circle; he would surely know things that his son didn’t and have a perspective that no one else she had interviewed could have. 
有这么多前食死徒死去或被关在阿兹卡班的深处，从某种意义上说，她需要卢修斯·马尔福。他一直在伏地魔的核心圈子里;他肯定会知道他儿子不知道的事情，并且拥有她采访过的其他人无法拥有的观点。

“What if I could get the Magic Dampener removed? Or a reduction in his sentence?”
“如果我能把魔法阻尼器拿走呢？还是减刑？

Draco’s head snapped up, whatever had been occupying his attention on the parchment forgotten. “You think you could do that?”
德拉科猛地抬起头，把他注意力放在羊皮纸上的任何东西都忘了。“你觉得你能做到吗？”

“Maybe,” Hermione said, her face screwing up as she considered the conversations she would need to have. “I don’t think I could get his house arrest waived entirely but shaving a few years off doesn’t seem impossible.”
“也许吧，”赫敏说，她的脸在考虑她需要进行的对话时变得糟糕。“我不认为我能完全免除他的软禁，但减少几年的软禁似乎并非不可能。”

“Well, anything less than the twenty years he got would be an improvement,” Draco muttered. 
“嗯，任何少于他得到的二十年都会是一种进步，”德拉科咕哝道。

Hermione pressed her lips together, electing not to comment. After the war, Draco and Narcissa had walked free thanks to Narcissa’s actions and Harry’s testimony on their behalf. Lucius Malfoy, on the other hand, had fared less well. He had borne the brunt of the public’s anger at the Malfoy family and received a twenty year house arrest. To add insult to injury, he was fitted with a Magic Dampener which rendered him unable to use his magic. Hermione hadn’t been especially sorry and nor had anyone else.
赫敏紧紧抿着嘴唇，选择不发表评论。战后，德拉科和纳西莎多亏了纳西莎的行动和哈利为他们作证，才得以自由自在。另一方面，卢修斯·马尔福的情况就不那么好了。他首当其冲地承受了公众对马尔福家族的愤怒，并被软禁了二十年。雪上加霜的是，他被装上了魔法阻尼器，这使他无法使用他的魔法。赫敏没有特别抱歉，其他人也没有。

“You’ve already suggested you think my father deserved what he got, so why would you do this?”
“你已经说过了，你认为我父亲应得的，那你为什么要这样做呢？”

Setting her hands flat on the parchment in front of her, Hermione stretched her fingers wide to indicate that she was effectively laying her cards on the table. “Because I’m desperate. And it’s the only thing I think might even slightly persuade him.”
赫敏双手平放在面前的羊皮纸上，张大了手指，表示她实际上是把她的卡片放在桌子上。“因为我很绝望。这是我认为唯一可能稍微说服他的事情。

Nodding slowly, Draco leaned back to give her a sweeping look. “I think you’re probably right.” Sighing, Draco shrugged his shoulders and shook his head in a way that told Hermione she had him. “Alright, Granger, you win. I’ll put it to him.”
德拉科缓缓地点了点头，向后靠了靠，扫视了她一眼。“我想你可能是对的。”德拉科叹了口气，耸了耸肩，摇了摇头，仿佛在告诉赫敏她已经拥有了他。“好吧，格兰杰，你赢了。我会告诉他的。

“Thank you!” Hermione grinned widely and bounced in her seat. “Oh, you won’t regret this, Malfoy. I’ll get in touch with Kingsley to start a conversation.”
“谢谢你！”赫敏咧嘴一笑，在座位上蹦蹦跳跳。“哦，你不会后悔的，马尔福。我会联系 Kingsley 开始对话。

Running a hand through his short blonde hair, Draco stopped its progress at the back of his neck and rubbed a spot of tension he found there. “Merlin knows something needs to change. Just the other day Astoria was telling me she doesn’t want our child growing up in a house where they could reasonably mistake their grandfather for a ghost. Is that not the most depressing thing you’ve ever heard?”
德拉科用一只手抚摸着他的金发，在他的脖子后面停下了脚步，揉了揉他在那里发现的一丝紧张。“梅林知道有些事情需要改变。就在前几天，Astoria 告诉我，她不希望我们的孩子在一个他们可以合理地将祖父误认为鬼魂的房子里长大。这难道不是你听过的最令人沮丧的事情吗？

“Then tell him what I’m proposing and, if he’s amenable, I’ll see what I can do. How is Astoria, by the way?”
“然后告诉他我有什么建议，如果他愿意的话，我看看我能做什么。对了，阿斯托利亚怎么样了？

Draco’s face immediately brightened at the prospect of being able to discuss his wife but Hermione didn’t miss the tiredness around his eyes. “She’s doing well. Late pregnancy certainly agrees with her more than the early days, though she still has the odd day where her strength disappears entirely.” 
德拉科的脸上立刻因为能够讨论他的妻子而变得明亮起来，但赫敏并没有错过他眼中的疲惫。“她做得很好。怀孕晚期肯定比怀孕早期更符合她的观点，尽管她仍然有一天她的力量完全消失。

It was hard not to stretch a sympathetic hand out to Draco, so she did. He didn’t take it but he never did; Hermione just liked to let him know that it was there. In the relatively short time they had been developing a friendly relationship, Hermione had noticed that Draco Malfoy didn’t like to touch. He didn’t mind if she reached out and touched him but to meet in the middle, to extend his hand to meet hers, seemed to be too great an act of exposure for him. Learning what she had about his experiences in the war and the long periods of lonely isolation he had gone through, Hermione couldn’t say she was offended. Understandably, he had built walls. As Hermione saw it, she was there to help him communicate through them, maybe remove a brick or two at a time, rather than to knock them down. 
很难不向Draco伸出同情的手，所以她就伸出了手。他没有接受，但他从未接受;赫敏只是喜欢让他知道它就在那里。在他们建立友好关系的相对较短的时间里，赫敏注意到德拉科·马尔福不喜欢触摸。他并不介意她伸手触摸他，但在中间相遇，伸出手来碰她的手，对他来说似乎是一种太大的暴露行为。了解了他在战争中的经历和他所经历的长期孤独孤立，赫敏不能说她被冒犯了。可以理解的是，他筑起了围墙。在赫敏看来，她在那里帮助他通过他们进行交流，也许一次移走一两块砖头，而不是把他们推倒。

Draco had revealed his anxieties to Hermione about Astoria’s delicate constitution and how it might be worsened by pregnancy on their third meeting. In the end, they had spent their allotted time that week not having a recorded interview but simply chatting as friends might. It was then that Hermione had realised how few friends Draco Malfoy actually had and it had tugged at her sympathy in a way she could never have expected. He wasn’t the same boy she had known at Hogwarts and, though she wouldn’t tell him, she had decided she would be there for him as much as he would allow her to. That was her way of rebuilding and moving forward.
德拉科在他们第三次见面时向赫敏透露了他对阿斯托利亚脆弱的体质以及怀孕可能会如何恶化的焦虑。最后，他们在那一周分配的时间里没有进行录音采访，而只是像朋友一样聊天。就在那时，赫敏意识到德拉科·马尔福的朋友实际上是多么的少，这以一种她从未预料到的方式拉扯着她的同情心。他不是她在霍格沃茨认识的那个男孩，虽然她不肯告诉他，但她已经决定，只要他允许她，她就会尽可能多地陪在他身边。这就是她重建和前进的方式。

“It’s not long until you’ll have a child to occupy your every living moment. In fact,” Hermione raised her eyes to the ceiling as she counted up the months, “yes, Astoria must be due a little bit after Ginny Potter. She and Harry are having their second soon.”
“用不了多久，你就会有一个孩子来占据你生命中的每一刻。事实上，“赫敏抬起眼睛看向天花板，数着月份，”是的，阿斯托利亚肯定比金妮·波特晚了一点。她和哈利很快就会有他们的第二个孩子。

“Of course Potter’s already on number two,” Draco scoffed, shifting his position in his seat to cross his legs. “That’ll be the Weasley urge to propagate converging with his innate need to one-up me.”
“当然，波特已经排在第二位了，”德拉科嘲笑道，把座位上的位置挪了个弯，交叉着双腿。“那将是韦斯莱想要传播的冲动，与他与生俱来的需要汇聚在一起，以超越我。”

Hermione laughed, drawing a narrow-eyed glare from Draco. “Malfoy, do you really think Harry impregnated Ginny just so he could say he has one more child than you?” 
赫敏笑了起来，引来了德拉科眯起眼睛的目光。“马尔福，你真的认为哈利让金妮怀孕只是为了说他比你多一个孩子吗？”

“I said it was innate ; he might not even realise he’s doing it. Wouldn’t put it past him, though.”
“我说这是天生的;他甚至可能没有意识到自己在这样做。不过，他不会把球放过他。

“Your children will be attending Hogwarts together,” Hermione pointed out. “An olive branch extended now could be a good chance to stop history repeating itself.”
“你的孩子会一起去霍格沃茨的，”赫敏指出。“现在伸出橄榄枝可能是阻止历史重演的好机会。”

“Thank you for the advice, oh wise woman of history.” Malfoy gave her a mocking deferential wave before tipping his head back to drain the last of his tea. “Anyway, I’d best be off. I promised Astoria I’d bring her some cauldron cakes from Diagon Alley on the way back to the manor and it’s getting close to tea time.”
“谢谢你的建议，哦，历史上的智慧女性。”马尔福嘲讽地恭敬地向她挥了挥手，然后把头往后仰，把最后一口茶都喝光了。“不管怎样，我最好还是走吧。我答应过阿斯托利亚，我会在回庄园的路上从对角巷给她带一些大锅蛋糕，现在已经快到下午茶时间了。

“Oh!” Hermione slid from her seat, careful not to disturb any of her papers, and hurried to the kitchen, Malfoy watching her warily. Opening a tin on the counter, Hermione bustled around the tiny kitchen with her back to him, eventually returning to the table with a foil-wrapped square which she placed before him.
“哦！”赫敏从座位上滑下来，小心翼翼地不打扰她的任何文件，然后匆匆忙忙地走向厨房，马尔福警惕地看着她。赫敏打开柜台上的一个罐子，背对着他，在小厨房里忙碌着，最后拿着一个用铝箔包裹的方块回到桌子旁，放在他面前。

“What,” Malfoy said, raising the soft package to his eyes and inspecting it with faint disgust, “is this?”
“什么，”马尔福说，把软包裹举到眼睛前，带着淡淡的厌恶检查它，“这是吗？

“It’s lemon cake. I made it myself.”
“这是柠檬蛋糕。我自己做到了。

“ You cook? In here ?” He gestured to the table. “Isn’t that some kind of fire hazard?”
“你做饭？在这儿？他指了指桌子。“这不是某种火灾隐患吗？”

“I bake,” Hermione corrected, then hesitated before adding, “I bake this one thing. Ginny’s craved it through both of her pregnancies, so I’ve gotten into the habit of having a few slices ready to go at all times. Astoria might like it.”
“我烤，”赫敏纠正道，然后犹豫了一下，才补充道，“我烤这一样东西。Ginny 在她的两次怀孕中都渴望它，所以我养成了随时准备好几片的习惯。阿斯托利亚可能会喜欢它。

Draco looked doubtful and brought the package closer to his face to sniff it delicately. Hermione rolled her eyes and placed her hands on her hips. “Just throw it out if she doesn’t.”
德拉科一脸疑惑，把包裹凑近他的脸，小心翼翼地闻了闻。赫敏翻了个白眼，把手放在她的臀部上。“如果她不这样做，就把它扔掉。”

He shook his head but, to Hermione’s satisfaction, he also slipped the foil-wrapped cake into the pocket of his robes that were hanging over the back of his chair. 
他摇了摇头，但令赫敏满意的是，他还把铝箔纸包裹的蛋糕塞进了挂在椅背上的长袍口袋里。

“Don’t forget to ask your father,” she reminded him as he started moving to get to his feet.
“别忘了问你爸爸，”她提醒他，他开始站起来。

Draco grumbled something that sounded like “I bloody won’t”, his tall frame moving awkwardly in the cramped space to lift his robes. He managed to slide his right arm in successfully before hitting the elbow of his left against the wall beside him with a muttered curse.
德拉科咕哝着一句，听起来像是“我的不会”，他高大的身躯在狭窄的空间里笨拙地移动着，掀起了他的长袍。他成功地将右臂滑入，然后用左手的肘部撞在旁边的墙上，喃喃自语地咒骂着。

“Maybe you could convince your mother next?” Hermione asked hopefully as she lifted their empty mugs from the table and carried them to the sink.
“也许你接下来能说服妈？”赫敏满怀希望地问道，她从桌子上拿起他们的空杯子，把它们带到水槽里。

Draco choked out a laugh as he carefully adjusted his robes into a more comfortable position on his shoulders. “Check your ambition, Granger. You’re more likely to get him than you are to get her.” 
德拉科哽咽着笑了起来，他小心翼翼地把长袍调整到肩膀上更舒服的位置。“检查你的雄心壮志，格兰杰。你得到他的可能性比你得到她的可能性更大。

Placing his hand on the back of his chair to push it under the table, Draco stopped to watch Hermione rinse the mugs. Feeling the weight of his gaze, she turned, shaking droplets of water from her hands. “What?”
德拉科把手放在椅背上，把它推到桌子下面，然后停下来看着赫敏冲洗杯子。感觉到他目光的重量，她转过身来，抖掉了手上的水滴。“什么？”

“You really want to interview him, don’t you?” 
“你真的很想采访他，不是吗？”

“I wouldn’t be asking you to do this if I didn’t.”
“如果我不这样做，我就不会要求你这样做。”

“You know that you’d need to come to the manor.”
“你知道你得来庄园。”

Hesitating, her face scrunched at the thought, Hermione shifted her weight from one foot to the other. “Like I said: I’m desperate.”
赫敏犹豫了一下，她的脸因为这个想法而皱起了眉头，她把重心从一只脚转移到了另一只脚上。“就像我说的：我很绝望。”

“ And ,” Draco continued, “if he does actually agree to this, he won’t be nice to you, Granger. I love my father a great deal but I don’t think I could tell you in all honesty that the war has made him a better person.”
“而且，”德拉科继续说，“如果他真的同意了，他就不会对你好了，格兰杰。我非常爱我的父亲，但我认为我无法诚实地告诉你，战争使他成为一个更好的人。

Crossing her arms, Hermione raised an eyebrow. “Do you really think I’m expecting your father to be nice to me? I don’t want to braid his hair, Malfoy, I want to ask him some questions. More importantly, I want him to be honest with me when he answers them. I’m fully aware that asking for honesty from your father is likely to preclude any kind of niceness .”
赫敏交叉双臂，扬起了一道眉毛。“你真的以为我期待你爸爸对我好吗？”我不想给他编辫子，马尔福，我想问他一些问题。更重要的是，我希望他在回答问题时对我诚实。我完全知道，要求你父亲诚实很可能会排除任何形式的善意。

“Fine, fine,” Draco said, raising his hands in surrender. “It was just a friendly warning. I’ll keep up my end of the bargain and you see what you can do about yours.” Malfoy moved to leave the kitchen, pausing in the doorway with his hand on the frame. “See you next week?” he asked, without turning to look at her.
“好吧，好吧，”德拉科说，举起双手投降。“这只是一个友好的警告。我会继续履行我的协议，你看看你能做些什么。马尔福离开了厨房，在门口停了下来，手放在门框上。“下周见？” 他问道，没有转头看她。

Officially, their interviews were over; Hermione had learned all she could from Draco for her oral history. Rather than remind him of that, she smiled at his back. “Sounds great.” Draco departed without another word, leaving Hermione with a fond smile on her face.
正式地，他们的采访结束了;赫敏从德拉科那里学到了她能学到的一切口述历史。她没有提醒他，而是对着他的背影微笑。“听起来不错。”德拉科一言不发地离开了，留下赫敏脸上露出了深情的笑容。

With Malfoy gone, Hermione let time get away from her. Pulling her mixing bowl and some ingredients from her kitchen cupboard, she began the methodical process of baking a fresh lemon cake; she had given him her last slice. It was her mother’s recipe—one of only two recipes Hermione had learned from her, much to her regret—and it was so familiar that she didn’t need any kind of instructions. 
马尔福走后，赫敏让时间从她身边流走。她从厨房橱柜里拿出她的搅拌碗和一些配料，开始有条不紊地烘烤新鲜的柠檬蛋糕;她已经把最后一片给了他。这是她妈妈的食谱——赫敏从她那里学到的仅有的两种食谱之一，这让她很遗憾——而且它是如此熟悉，以至于她不需要任何形式的指导。

Hermione loved interviewing her sources but the activity required her to be utterly switched on and her sessions could last hours if she and her interviewee struggled to find a natural cut-off point. So, while baking required exactitude, making the lemon cake was a soothing and almost passive activity for her. She found, particularly in the aftermath of her interviews, that it was the perfect way to move her brain down a gear and recharge.
赫敏喜欢采访她的消息来源，但这项活动需要她完全开机，如果她和她的受访者努力找到一个自然的分界点，她的会议可能会持续几个小时。因此，虽然烘焙需要精确，但制作柠檬蛋糕对她来说是一项舒缓且几乎是被动的活动。她发现，尤其是在采访之后，这是让她的大脑降档并充电的完美方式。

After sliding the cake into her oven, jiggling the damaged door to the left as she closed it, Hermione glanced at the clock and turned her attention to her work station. Malfoy was right, not that she’d ever admit it to him: she did need more space. But it was hard to come by. She had considered asking McGonagall to let her use the Hogwarts library but the idea of being around loud students looking for any excuse to be distracted from their studies didn’t appeal in the least. Being on long-term leave from the Ministry meant that she didn’t have an office there anymore, either. Overall, in her poky one bedroom flat, it was the best she could do. 
把蛋糕滑进烤箱，关上门时把坏掉的门向左晃动，赫敏看了一眼时钟，把注意力转向了她的工作站。马尔福是对的，并不是说她永远不会向他承认：她确实需要更多的空间。但这很难获得。她曾考虑过让麦格让她使用霍格沃茨图书馆，但和吵闹的学生在一起，找任何借口分散学习注意力的想法一点也不吸引人。从魔法部长期休假意味着她在那里也不再有办公室了。总的来说，在她破旧的一居室公寓里，这是她能做的最好的事情。

Opening Malfoy’s folder, she collected a few loose sheets of parchment from around it and read them over before sliding them inside. They were just notes she’d taken on the Malfoy family history in preparation for her interviews with Draco. Unfortunately, it was a mind-numbingly long history—as they would undoubtedly be proud to point out—and the sheer amount of material available meant that Draco’s folder bulged larger than most. That wasn’t to mention the books she’d found in which the Malfoy name was repeatedly mentioned in connection with magical politics, wars and laws. Individual biographical details were harder to come by without properly digging but the family name was weaved through wizarding history.
打开马尔福的文件夹，她从周围收集了几张松散的羊皮纸，仔细阅读了一遍，然后把它们滑进去。它们只是她为了准备采访德拉科而记下的关于马尔福家族历史的笔记。不幸的是，这是一段令人麻木的漫长历史——正如他们无疑会自豪地指出的那样——而且可用的材料数量之多意味着 Draco 的文件夹比大多数文件夹都大。更不用说她找到的那些书中，马尔福的名字被反复提及与魔法政治、战争和法律有关。如果不适当挖掘，个人传记细节就很难获得，但这个家族的名字已经编织在巫师历史中。

In the end, she hadn’t really needed any of the information and hadn’t delved much deeper than their family tree. But, if she was going to end up interviewing Lucius, she wanted to keep all of the resources she’d gathered to hand. Hermione had a feeling that being prepared would be key to conversations with that particular Malfoy.
最后，她并没有真正需要任何信息，也没有深入研究他们的家谱。但是，如果她最终要采访 Lucius，她想把她收集到的所有资源都留在手头。赫敏有一种感觉，做好准备将是与那个特定的马尔福交谈的关键。

Closing the folder gently, Hermione considered the offer she’d asked Draco to pass onto his father. Her desperation had perhaps made her overly optimistic about what she could reasonably expect to ask of Kingsley. But she had to try.
轻轻地合上文件夹，赫敏考虑了她让德拉科转达给他父亲的提议。她的绝望或许使她对自己可以合理地期望对金斯莱的要求过于乐观。但她必须尝试。

The sharp beep of the oven extracted Hermione from her reverie and she returned to withdraw the cake so that she could leave it to cool on the counter. Pulling her apron over her head, Hermione threw it over the back of a chair and hurried to her bedroom to change for her weekly dinner at the Potters. 
烤箱尖锐的哔哔声将赫敏从遐想中拉了出来，她回去把蛋糕拿出来，这样她就可以把它放在柜台上冷却了。赫敏把围裙套在头上，把它扔在椅背上，然后匆匆忙忙地回到自己的卧室换衣服，为她每周在波特家的晚餐换衣服。

After the birth of James, they’d agreed as a group that a more structured social life was probably necessary if they had any hope of seeing one another with a degree of regularity. Hermione, adoring structure, had probably been the most enthusiastic about the idea. Ron had grumbled about the loss of impromptu trips to the pub with Harry, though a sharp whack from his sister had closed his mouth quickly enough. 
詹姆斯出生后，他们作为一个群体一致认为，如果他们有任何希望以一定程度的规律性见到彼此，那么更有条理的社交生活可能是必要的。赫敏，喜欢结构，可能是对这个主意最热衷的人。罗恩抱怨说自己失去了和哈利一起去酒吧的即兴旅行，尽管他姐姐的一记猛烈的打击让他很快就闭上了嘴。

Flicking through her wardrobe, Hermione sighed at the abundance of denim and polyester. Her time away from the Ministry on half-pay meant that her journey towards building a more mature wardrobe had slipped back somewhat and she found she was dressing more like her teenage self with every passing day. Settling on her jeans and a worn Breton stripe jumper, she swiftly changed and attempted to make her long, messy curls more presentable.
赫敏翻阅着她的衣橱，叹息着那里丰富的牛仔布和涤纶布。她以半薪离开魔法部的时间意味着她建立更成熟衣橱的旅程已经倒退了一些，她发现自己每天都穿得更像十几岁的自己。穿上牛仔裤和破旧的布列塔尼条纹套头衫，她迅速改变并试图让她那凌乱的长卷发更像样。

Another glance at the clock as she ran back into the kitchen told Hermione that she was only twenty minutes late. She grabbed her wand from the counter and pointed it at the cake, which immediately started depositing itself into a tin while she retrieved a cold bottle of white wine from the fridge. 
当她跑回厨房时，又看了一眼时钟，赫敏发现她只迟到了二十分钟。她从柜台上拿出魔杖对准蛋糕，蛋糕立即开始放入罐子里，同时她从冰箱里拿出一瓶冰凉的白葡萄酒。

After a final cursory inspection of her kitchen and double checking that the oven was off, Hermione bustled towards her living room fireplace, cake and wine bundled in her arms.
在最后粗略地检查了她的厨房并仔细检查了烤箱是否关闭后，赫敏匆匆忙忙地走向她客厅的壁炉，怀里掏着蛋糕和葡萄酒。

Chapter 2
第 2 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione has dinner at the Potters
赫敏在波特家吃晚饭

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Wow! I'm so flattered by the positive response to the first chapter. Thank you all so much. It's the last day of my Christmas holidays so, while it's sooner than planned, I'd like to wrap them up by posting another chapter. Happy 2022 and I'll see you again in a week or two!
哇！我对第一章的积极反应感到非常受宠若惊。非常感谢大家。今天是我圣诞假期的最后一天，所以，虽然比计划的时间早，但我想通过发布另一章来结束它们。2022 年快乐，一两周后再见！

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾A happy, wailing James Potter was the first thing that Hermione encountered when she stepped into the Potters’ living room. Just short of two years old, he was at the point where he could walk for extended periods but he still had moments where his head threw off his balance, sending him careening forwards with dangerous speed. He was just about to go headlong into Hermione’s legs when Harry swept him off his feet and up into the air, earning himself a delighted scream. 
当赫敏踏入波特家的客厅时，她首先看到的是快乐、哀嚎的詹姆·波特。刚满两岁，他已经到了可以长时间行走的地步，但他仍然有头部失去平衡的时刻，使他以危险的速度向前冲刺。他正要一头扎进赫敏的腿上，哈利把他从脚上扫到空中，让自己高兴地尖叫起来。

Grinning as he arranged his wriggling son in his arms, Harry eyed the cake and wine in Hermione’s. “Lemon cake and wine? Oh, you are most welcome, Hermione Granger, bringer of peace and joy.”
哈利咧嘴一笑，把他扭动的儿子搂在怀里，盯着赫敏家的蛋糕和酒。“柠檬蛋糕和葡萄酒？哦，不客气，赫敏·格兰杰，和平与欢乐的带来者。

“Hello, mister,” Hermione said fondly, leaning towards James to give him a kiss. He hid his face in Harry’s neck, abashed, and Hermione laughed. 
“你好，先生，”赫敏深情地说，俯身向詹姆斯亲吻。他把脸藏在哈利的脖子上，羞愧地笑了起来。

“Sorry,” Harry grinned, clearly not sorry at all. “He’s been really attached to me this past week. Ginny’s absolutely furious about it. Keeps threatening that she’ll raise the next one to be on her team. Whatever that means.”
“对不起，”哈利咧嘴一笑，显然一点也不抱歉。“在过去的一周里，他真的很依恋我。金妮对此非常生气。不断威胁说她会培养下一个加入她团队的人。不管这意味着什么。

Turning, Harry began walking out of the room, speaking over his shoulder to her. “Ron and Ginny are in the kitchen.” Hermione trailed after Harry and, to her amusement, spied James peeking at her over his father’s shoulder. She stuck her tongue out and he ducked down again, a messy tuft of black hair and two pudgy hands the only evidence that he was there at all. 
哈利转过身来，开始走出房间，转过头对她说。“罗恩和金妮在厨房里。”赫敏跟在哈利身后，令她好笑的是，她发现詹姆斯从他父亲的肩膀上偷看她。她伸出舌头，他又弯下身子，一簇凌乱的黑发和两只胖乎乎的手是他在那里的唯一证据。

“Hermione’s here!” Harry called, pushing the door to the kitchen open. 
“赫敏来了！”哈利喊道，推开了厨房的门。

Warm greetings from Ron and Ginny met Hermione as she followed Harry into the kitchen. Before she could even register where their voices had come from, they descended on her, Ginny plucking the cake from her arms while Ron grabbed the wine.
罗恩和金妮热情地问候了赫敏，赫敏跟着哈利走进了厨房。她甚至还没反应清他们的声音是从哪里传来的，他们就向她扑来，金妮从她怀里摘下蛋糕，而罗恩则抓起酒。

“You are a gem ,” Ginny said, cradling the cake over her large belly like a practice baby. “I’ve been thinking about this all day.”
“你是一颗宝石，”金妮说，像个练习婴儿一样把蛋糕抱在她的大肚子上。“我整天都在想这个问题。”

“And I’ve been thinking about this all day,” said Ron with a fond look at the wine as he pulled glasses from a cupboard on the opposite side of the kitchen. 
“我一整天都在想这个问题，”罗恩说，一边深情地看着酒，一边从厨房对面的橱柜里拿出玻璃杯。

The Potter’s kitchen was much larger than Hermione’s but that was the benefit of having a three-bedroom house in Godric’s Hollow over a one-bedroom flat in north London. Although they had spent the first years of their marriage in Grimmauld Place, when Ginny had gotten pregnant with James she’d managed to convince Harry to leave the house he’d inherited from Sirius. 
波特家的厨房比赫敏的要大得多，但那是在戈德里克山谷有一栋三居室的房子，而不是在伦敦北部的一套一居室公寓。虽然他们结婚的最初几年都在格里莫广场度过，但当金妮怀上詹姆斯时，她设法说服哈利离开他从小天狼星那里继承的房子。

Hermione hadn’t been there for the discussion but Harry had told her that Ginny had cited the “creepy vibe” of Grimmauld Place, as well as the less-than-stellar relationships of its former family, as evidence that it was an unsuitable place to raise children. Hermione couldn’t say she disagreed with Ginny but it was, she thought, a testament to how much Harry loved his wife that he’d been willing to leave the place for her. The incompatibility of Walburga Black's portrait and sleeping children probably helped him make the decision too.
赫敏没有去那里讨论，但哈利告诉她，金妮引用了格里莫广场的“令人毛骨悚然的氛围”，以及它以前家庭不那么光彩的关系，作为证明它不适合抚养孩子的地方。赫敏不能说她不同意金妮的观点，但她想，这证明了哈利有多么爱他的妻子，他愿意为她离开这个地方。沃尔布加·布莱克 （Walburga Black） 的肖像和熟睡的孩子之间的不相容可能也帮助他做出了决定。

From Hermione’s perspective, their home in Godric’s Hollow was much more suitable. Warm and welcoming, it was as much home to her as her own flat. Perhaps more so. With a pleased sigh, Hermione sank into one of the chairs at the large table in the centre of the room. Her fingers rubbed over the well-scrubbed wood, appreciating the lack of parchment littering its surface. She wondered if it was odd that she enjoyed coming to the home of her toddler-rearing friends for its comparatively soothing neatness. 
从赫敏的角度来看，他们在戈德里克山谷的家要合适得多。这里温暖而好客，对她来说就像她自己的公寓一样。也许更重要。赫敏高兴地叹了口气，坐进了房间中央大桌子旁的一把椅子上。她的手指在擦洗过的木头上摩擦，欣赏着表面没有散落的羊皮纸。她想知道她喜欢来到她蹒跚学步的朋友们的家里，因为它相对舒缓的整洁，这是否很奇怪。

“Sorry I’m late,” she said. “I had my last meeting with Malfoy today so I ended up starting on the cake a little later than I intended.”
“对不起，我来晚了，”她说。“我今天和马尔福有最后一次会面，所以我最终开始工作的时间比我预期的要晚一点。”

A noise of disgust from just over Hermione’s shoulder signalled Ron’s presence. He set a glass of white wine in front of her before sliding into the seat to her right with his own glass. “I still can’t believe you let the ferret in your flat.”
赫敏的肩膀上传来一阵厌恶的声音，表明罗恩的存在。他把一杯白葡萄酒放在她面前，然后拿着自己的杯子滑到她右边的座位上。“我还是不敢相信你让雪貂进了你的公寓。”

“Well, where would you rather we go, Ron?” Hermione asked, picking up her wine and rolling her eyes. “Someplace public where everyone can stare at us?”
“嗯，罗恩，你希望我们去哪儿？”赫敏问道，拿起她的酒，翻了个白眼。“一个每个人都可以盯着我们看的公共场所？”

“I think having as many witnesses as possible can’t hurt,” said Ron darkly. 
“我觉得有尽可能多的证人不会有什么坏处，”罗恩阴沉地说。

“Malfoy wouldn’t dare hurt Hermione, Ron,” Ginny said from across the room, where she was lifting the lemon cake from Hermione’s tin to deposit it in one of her own.
“马尔福不敢伤害赫敏，罗恩，”金妮在房间的另一头说，她正从赫敏的罐子里拿出柠檬蛋糕，把它放进她自己的罐子里。

“Not with the eye the Auror office still has on his family,” Harry added as he struggled to settle a wriggling James into his high chair at the far end of the table.
“不是用傲罗办公室还在关注他的家人，”哈利补充道，他努力让扭动着的詹姆斯坐到桌子远端的高脚椅上。

Hermione shook her head, swallowing a large gulp of wine. It had taken a while for her friends to come to terms with her desire to interview Malfoy. She’d spent numerous weeks repeatedly explaining the purpose of their meetings and what they’d mean for her oral history. Eventually they'd accepted it. Unfortunately, they still couldn’t quite grasp the idea that she actually didn’t mind Malfoy on a personal level. 
赫敏摇摇头，吞下了一大口酒。她的朋友们花了一段时间才接受她想采访马尔福的愿望。她花了好几个星期反复解释他们见面的目的，以及他们对她的口述历史意味着什么。最终他们接受了它。不幸的是，他们仍然无法完全理解她实际上在个人层面上并不介意马尔福的想法。

The only person who seemed remotely understanding was, surprisingly, Harry, who mostly avoided outrightly criticising Draco. Hermione supposed it had something to do with the fact that he had spoken up for Malfoy and his mother at their trials following the war and liked Hermione’s assurances that he had done the right thing. But Harry didn’t often speak up when Hermione attempted to defend Draco to Ron and Ginny. She imagined he thought it wasn’t an argument worth having; Weasley and Malfoy enmity went further back than their own school days, after all.  
令人惊讶的是，唯一一个似乎完全理解的人是哈利，他基本上避免直接批评德拉科。赫敏认为这与他在战后的审判中为马尔福和他母亲发声有关，并且喜欢赫敏保证他做了正确的事情。但是当赫敏试图向罗恩和金妮为德拉科辩护时，哈利并不经常发声。她想象他认为这不是一个值得争论的争论;毕竟，韦斯莱和马尔福的敌意可以追溯到他们自己的学生时代。

“I’ve already told you, Malfoy is fine . I like spending time with him.”
“我已经跟你说过了，马尔福没事。我喜欢和他在一起。

“Mental,” muttered Ron with a shake of his head. “Absolutely mental.”
“精神上的，”罗恩摇摇头咕哝道。“绝对是精神上的。”

“Spending literal weeks of your life with someone, exploring their memories and emotions, is a highly intimate experience, Ron,” Hermione snapped. “It’s perfectly natural for some kind of empathy and mutuality to develop. You might want to try something similar sometime.”
“和某人一起度过生命中的几周，探索他们的记忆和情感，是一种非常亲密的经历，罗恩，”赫敏厉声说。“发展出某种同理心和互惠互利是很自然的。你可能想在某个时候尝试类似的东西。

Ron choked into his glass and hurriedly brushed droplets of wine from his t-shirt as Harry and Ginny snickered at him. 
罗恩呛到他的杯子里，匆匆忙忙地从他的T恤上拂去酒滴，而哈利和金妮则对他嘲笑。

“Please, Hermione,” he said, raising a palm in a plea of mercy as he coughed. “Don’t mention Malfoy and intimacy in the same sentence again. I have a highly fertile imagination.”
“求求你了，赫敏，”他说，一边咳嗽一边举起一只手掌恳求怜悯。“不要再在同一句话里提到马尔福和亲密关系了。我有非常丰富的想象力。

“Moving on ,” said Ginny, lowering into the seat across from Ron with a huff and a quelling look at Hermione, who had just opened her mouth with a very nasty look in her eye. “I’ve ordered Chinese food so I hope you weren’t hoping for a home-cooked meal tonight.”
“继续，”金妮说，气喘吁吁地坐到罗恩对面的座位上，平静地看了赫敏一眼，赫敏刚刚张开嘴，眼神里露出非常难狠的神情。“我已经点了中餐，所以我希望你今晚不要指望吃家常菜。”

Once Hermione and Ron had backed down and assured Ginny that Chinese was exactly what they wanted, the evening followed its usual routine of drinking, talking and, once the food eventually arrived, eating. 
当赫敏和罗恩让步并向金妮保证中文正是他们想要的时，这个夜晚就按照往常的惯例喝酒、聊天，一旦食物最终上来，就吃东西。

As Harry, Ron and Hermione opened a second bottle of wine and the chatter began to get too loud, James attempted to draw the room’s attention back to himself by flinging his food at Harry and screaming excitedly. It was only after Harry was hit with a sixth boiled broccoli floret, much to Ron and Ginny’s delight, that he got to his feet with a tired sigh to take his son to bed. 
当哈利、罗恩和赫敏打开第二瓶酒时，喋喋不休的声音开始变得太大声，詹姆斯试图把房间里的注意力拉回到自己身上，把食物扔向哈利，兴奋地尖叫起来。直到哈利被第六个煮熟的西兰花小花击中后，罗恩和金妮才疲惫地叹了口气，站起来，把儿子抱到床上。

“You know, Hermione,” said Ginny in a tone that Hermione found suspiciously casual given the predatory intent with which she speared a piece of chicken on her fork. “Harry told me that Terry Boot was asking about you today in the Ministry lunchroom.”
“你知道的，赫敏，”金妮说，语气让赫敏觉得很随意，因为她在叉子上刺了一块鸡肉。“哈利告诉我，特里·布特今天在魔法部的午餐室里问你。”

From the corner of her eye, Hermione saw Ron’s head bob up to look at Ginny, a long noodle dangling from his lips. 
赫敏用眼角的余光看到罗恩歪着头看着金妮，一条长长的面条从他的嘴唇上垂下来。

“The Ravenclaw?” Hermione asked with a frown. Reaching for a napkin, she passed it to Ron for his chin without even glancing at him.
“拉文克劳？”赫敏皱着眉头问道。她伸手拿起餐巾纸，递给罗恩放在他的下巴上，甚至没有看他一眼。

“That’s the one.” Ginny cast a faintly disgusted look at her brother. “Works in the Ministry’s archives, although you'll obviously already be aware of that. He asked Harry how your project is coming along and how much longer you might be on sabbatical.”
“就是那个。”金妮向她的哥哥投去淡淡的厌恶眼神。“在魔法部的档案中工作，尽管你显然已经知道了。他问 Harry 你的项目进展如何，你可能会休假多长时间。

Hermione took a sip of wine, her eyes narrowed as she tried to see where Ginny was trying to take the conversation. “That’s...nice, I suppose?”
赫敏啜了一口酒，眯起眼睛，试图看清金妮试图把话题引向哪里。“那是......不错吧？

“It is, isn’t it?” said Ginny cheerfully. “I think you should ask him out.”
“是的，不是吗？”“我觉得你应该约他出去。”

“Ginny, no!” 
“金妮，不！”

Eyebrows raised, chin drawn down into her neck, Ginny looked back and forth between Ron and Hermione, both of whom had shouted her name at the same time. Glancing at one another, they then immediately focused on their plates as though their meals had suddenly become incredibly interesting.
金妮扬起眉毛，下巴贴在脖子上，在罗恩和赫敏之间来回打量，他们俩都同时喊着她的名字。他们互相看了一眼，然后立即专注于自己的盘子，仿佛他们的饭菜突然变得非常有趣。

“I’ll get to you in a minute,” Ginny said to Hermione, before turning to her brother with a stern look. “First, you .”
“我一会儿就来找你，”金妮对赫敏说，然后转身用严厉的眼神看向她的哥哥。“首先，你。”

Ron audibly gulped as Ginny raised a finger to point at him from across the table. “It’s none of your business who Hermione asks out, Ron Weasley. You two aren’t going out; you tried and it was a disaster. In fact, I don’t know if Hannah—your current girlfriend , remember?—would be all that pleased to hear that you’re having a jealous little fit over the idea of Hermione developing an interest in someone else.”
罗恩大口大口地喝了一口水，金妮从桌子对面举起一根手指指向他。“赫敏约谁不关你的事，罗恩·韦斯莱。你们俩不出去;你试过了，结果是一场灾难。事实上，我不知道汉娜——你现在的女朋友，还记得吗——听到你对赫敏对别人产生兴趣的想法感到嫉妒。

“It’s nothing to do with jealousy ,” Ron muttered, his ears and neck rapidly reddening. “It’s just...it’s Terry Boot, innit? Bit of a drip. Think Hermione could do with someone that’s got a bit... more to them.”
“这和嫉妒没关系，”罗恩咕哝着，他的耳朵和脖子很快就红了起来。“只是......是 Terry Boot，innit？有点滴。想想赫敏可以和一个有点...... 对他们来说更多。

Hermione couldn’t help the fond smile that Ron’s words brought to her face and she gently elbowed him in the side. He shifted away, embarrassed. 
赫敏忍不住露出罗恩的话给她带来的深情微笑，她轻轻地用手肘碰了碰他的侧面。他尴尬地移开了。

They had tried a relationship immediately after the war but it just hadn’t worked out for them. A combination of extreme busyness in the rebuilding efforts, Ron’s staunch certainty about his plans for the future and Hermione’s dissatisfaction with her present had led to their relationship falling apart after four years. It had been extremely difficult but, since then, Ron had started seeing Hannah Abbot and, as far as Hermione could tell, he was very happy with her. 
他们在战后立即尝试过一段关系，但对他们来说就是没有成功。重建工作的极度忙碌，罗恩对未来计划的坚定把握，以及赫敏对她现在的不满，导致他们的关系在四年后分崩离析。这非常困难，但从那以后，罗恩开始见到汉娜·艾伯特，据赫敏所知，他对她非常满意。

At first, it had been odd for Hermione to see Ron with someone else but she’d come to notice that Ron and Hannah were never impatient or aggravated with one another the way she and Ron had often been. In the immediate aftermath of their breakup, Hermione had been keen to lay the blame for all of their arguments solely at Ron’s feet, citing his short fuse and general argumentativeness. But seeing how calm and patient he was with Hannah had made Hermione realise that the fault couldn’t possibly lie with just one of them; it had simply been the way they were together as a couple. They weren’t compatible.
起初，赫敏看到罗恩和别人在一起很奇怪，但她逐渐注意到，罗恩和汉娜从来没有像她和罗恩经常那样不耐烦或生气。在他们分手后，赫敏一直热衷于将他们所有的争论都归咎于罗恩，理由是他短暂的导火索和普遍的争论。但看到他对汉娜的冷静和耐心，赫敏意识到，错不可能只在于他们中的一个;这只是他们作为一对夫妇在一起的方式。他们不兼容。

“I appreciate your concern, Ginny. Really, I do. But I don't want to ask Terry Boot out. I don’t want to ask anyone out.”
“我很感激你的关心，金妮。真的，我愿意。但我不想请 Terry Boot 出去。我不想约任何人出去。

“He won’t reject you, Hermione,” Ginny assured her with a sympathetic look. “Your hair is much better now.”
“他不会拒绝你的，赫敏，”金妮用同情的眼神向她保证。“你的头发现在好多了。”

Ron snorted into his wine as Hermione flushed a deep pink. “It’s not about rejection , Ginny. Or my hair. I just don’t have time for dating right now. I took my sabbatical from the Ministry to compile this oral history and I need to focus my efforts on finishing it. I’m coming up on two years away and Kingsley strongly hinted that was as much time as he would be willing to give me.”
罗恩哼了一声，赫敏脸红了一阵深粉色。“这不是关于拒绝的，金妮。或者我的头发。我现在没有时间约会。我从魔法部休假来编纂这段口述历史，我需要集中精力完成它。我还有两年的时间，金斯利强烈暗示这是他愿意给我的时间。

“But you told us you’ve finished your interviews with Malfoy,” Ginny pointed out hurriedly, hoping to trip Hermione up. “So, surely that frees you up a bit. You need to have some fun , Hermione. A couple of dates can’t hurt. Besides, Terry Boot is cute ! And you know that must be true because it rhymes.”
“但你告诉我们你已经完成了对马尔福的采访，”金妮急忙指出，希望能绊倒赫敏。“所以，这肯定会让你自由一点。你得找点乐子，赫敏。几次约会也无妨。此外，Terry Boot 很可爱！你知道这一定是真的，因为它押韵。

Hermione shook her head, managing to laugh at Ginny’s persistence. “No . Anyway, I might be starting a new set of interviews soon, so I have to prioritise those. I can’t be sure how much of my time they’ll take up.”
赫敏摇了摇头，勉强嘲笑了金妮的坚持。“不。无论如何，我可能很快就会开始一系列新的面试，所以我必须优先考虑这些。我不确定他们会占用我多少时间。

“More interviews?” asked Ginny, waving her fork in a fit of disbelief that sent rice flying across the table. “Who the hell else could possibly be left?”
“还有更多采访吗？”金妮问道，她难以置信地挥舞着叉子，让米饭在桌子上飞了起来。“还能留下谁？”

“Peeves?” Ron suggested. “Oh, or maybe that bloke that sells those weird little amulets outside the Three Broomsticks, you know the—”
“皮鬼？”罗恩提议道。“哦，或者是那个在三把扫帚外面卖那些奇怪的小护身符的家伙，你知道的——”

“It’s Lucius Malfoy.”
“是卢修斯·马尔福。”

The uproar was instantaneous. Ginny dropped her fork onto her plate with a clatter while Ron sloshed wine all over the table, each loudly and hastily talking over the other. There was something truly alarming, Hermione thought, about having two wide-eyed Weasleys leaning into your face, their words running together so as to be practically incomprehensible. She could only hear snippets of what they were saying but phrases like “got to be joking”, “evil bastard” and “absolutely mental ” broke through.
一片哗然瞬间就引起了。金妮咔嚓一声把叉子扔在盘子上，而罗恩则把酒洒满了桌子，两人都大声匆忙地互相交谈。赫敏想，有两个睁大眼睛的韦斯莱靠在你的脸上，他们的话语连在一起，几乎让人难以理解，这真是令人震惊。她只能听到他们所说的片段，但像 “一定是在开玩笑”、“邪恶的混蛋 ”和 “绝对精神 ”这样的短语突破了。

“What are you lot shouting about?” came Harry’s irate voice from the kitchen doorway. “I just got James to sleep so if you wake him then I will cry and that is so much worse.”
“你们这群人在喊什么？”哈利愤怒的声音从厨房门口传来。“我刚刚让詹姆斯睡着了，所以如果你叫醒他，我就会哭，情况更糟。”

Ron and Ginny turned to him, both speaking at once while Hermione looked on with her mouth slightly open. Harry held up his right hand to stop them, his left pushing up his glasses so that he could pinch the bridge of his nose. “One at a time. Please.”
罗恩和金妮转向他，两人同时说话，而赫敏微微张着嘴在一旁看着。哈利举起右手阻止他们，左手推起眼镜，这样他就可以捏住自己的鼻梁。“一次一个。 拜托了。

“Hermione is going to interview Lucius Malfoy for her oral history thingy,” Ginny finally managed to say, her cheeks pink. “Tell her how stupid and terrible that is as an idea.”
“赫敏要去采访卢修斯·马尔福，因为她是口述历史的事情，”金妮终于开口了，她的脸颊通红。“告诉她，这个主意是多么愚蠢和可怕。”

“I’m not definitely doing it,” Hermione interjected quickly. “I’m just trying to make it happen.”
“我肯定不会这么做，”赫敏迅速地打断道。“我只是想让它发生。”

“Wait, this is a thing you’re trying to force ?” asked Ron. “He doesn’t even want to do it? Hermione, are you okay ?”
“等等，这是你想强迫的事情？”“他甚至不想这样做？赫敏，你还好吗？

“I’m fine,” Hermione said through gritted teeth.
“我没事，”赫敏咬牙切齿地说。

“Honestly, Hermione, Malfoy junior was bad enough,” Ginny said, her hands cradling her stomach as though protecting her unborn child from Hermione's bad decisions, “but Malfoy senior ? I don’t remember any of those books about the Goblin Wars we read at school offering the perspective of the goblins. I mean, I don't actually really remember what those books said full stop. But the point still stands: no one wanted to hear what they had to say, so why do you want to hear what he has to say?”
“老实说，赫敏，小马尔福已经够坏了，”金妮说，她的手捂着肚子，仿佛在保护她未出生的孩子免受赫敏的错误决定，“但是老马尔福呢？我不记得我们在学校读过的那些关于哥布林战争的书中，有没有提供哥布林视角的书。我的意思是，我实际上并不记得那些书是怎么说的。但关键仍然是：没有人想听他们要说的话，那么你为什么想听他要说什么呢？

“Maybe those books should have offered that perspective,” Hermione said with a sigh. “Besides, I’ve already told you, I’m not doing this to establish a narrative. I’m doing it to record personal, contrasting perspectives side-by-side. It’ll help us create a fuller record of events. We don’t know all that much about the Death Eaters, you know, not really. His perspective would be pretty unique.”
“也许那些书应该提供那种视角，”赫敏叹了口气说。“此外，我已经告诉过你了，我这样做不是为了建立叙事。我这样做是为了并排记录个人的、对比鲜明的观点。它将帮助我们创建更完整的事件记录。我们对食死徒了解不多，你知道的，不是真的。他的观点会非常独特。

“Uniquely twisted,” muttered Ron, reaching for the bottle of wine.
“特别扭曲，”罗恩咕哝着，伸手去拿那瓶酒。

Ginny pointed at Ron. “Exactly! Why would you want his perspective? We already know how utterly evil he is; why do you need to hear it from his own slimy mouth?”
金妮指着罗恩。“正是！你为什么想要他的观点？我们已经知道他有多么邪恶;你为什么需要从他自己黏糊糊的嘴里听到呢？

“She wants his perspective because she’s Hermione. And I'm pretty sure we went over all this with the other Malfoy.” Harry spoke from the doorway with a knowing look at Hermione who mouthed her gratitude, hoping the the others wouldn't see her face. “After that, surely you both know she’s going to go ahead and do exactly what she wants regardless of how loudly you both shout at her, so give over.”
“她想要他的观点，因为她是赫敏。而且我很确定我们和另一个马尔福一起讨论过这一切。哈利从门口说，用会心的眼神看着赫敏，赫敏说着感激之情，希望其他人不要看到她的脸。“在那之后，你们肯定都知道她会继续做她想做的事，不管你们俩对她大喊大叫，所以让步吧。”

“Well, I just think that some perspectives aren’t worth having,” said Ginny. “And if he has any sense he’ll keep his foul mouth shut .” Seeing Harry looking at her with his eyebrows raised, Ginny held up her hands. “I’m done, I’m done.”
“嗯，我只是觉得有些观点不值得拥有，”金妮说。“如果他有任何理智，他就会闭上他的污言秽语。”看到哈利扬起眉毛看着她，金妮举起了手。“我完了，我完了。”

Keen for the evening to return to warm and friendly fun, Hermione elected not to tell Harry, Ron and Ginny what she was offering Malfoy to tempt him into speaking with her. There was, she felt, no point in having a bigger argument over something that might not even happen. Accepting Ron’s offer of another glass of wine, Hermione tried to ignore the unsettled feeling that was stirring low in her stomach. 
赫敏渴望让这个夜晚回到温暖友好的乐趣中，她选择不告诉哈利、罗恩和金妮她给马尔福什么东西，以诱惑他和她说话。她觉得，对于甚至可能不会发生的事情进行更大的争论是没有意义的。赫敏接受了罗恩再喝一杯酒的提议，试图忽略她胃里低处翻腾的不安情绪。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Next chapter we meet Lucius. A grumpy and somewhat (very) arsey version of him.
下一章我们遇见卢修斯。一个脾气暴躁、有点（非常）粗鲁的他。

Chapter 3
第 3 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Draco appeals to his father to contact Hermione
德拉科恳求他的父亲联系赫敏

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you for your lovely comments everyone! Here is Chapter 3.
感谢大家的可爱评论！这是第 3 章。

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾April 15th 2006
四月 15th 2006

When Draco Malfoy couldn’t find his father in his private study, the library, or the kennels, he knew he would be successful in the greenhouse. 
当德拉科·马尔福在他的私人书房、图书馆或狗窝里找不到他的父亲时，他知道自己会在温室里取得成功。

Lucius Malfoy’s world had shrunk rather dramatically when the Ministry had put him under house arrest eight years previously. He hadn’t said a word about it but Draco hadn’t failed noticed that, rather than expand to fill the sprawling manor, rather than chafe at its confines, Lucius had taken it upon himself to reduce his world even further to only a handful of rooms. Whether that was deliberate or not, Draco wasn’t sure but it never failed to make him feel slightly uncomfortable. It wasn’t the kind of reaction he’d expected from his father. It did, at least, make him easier to track down. 
卢修斯·马尔福的世界在八年前魔法部将他软禁时，已经急剧缩小了。他一句话也没说，但德拉科并没有注意到，卢修斯并没有扩大规模来填满这个庞大的庄园，也没有对它的界限感到恼火，而是主动将他的世界进一步缩小到只有几个房间。这是否是故意的，德拉科不确定，但这总是让他感到有点不舒服。这不是他所期望的父亲会做出的那种反应。至少，这确实使他更容易被追踪。

Sure enough, when Draco opened the door to the greenhouse, stepping out of the April drizzle and into its humid heat, he heard the rustles and sighs that signalled his father’s presence. 
果然，当德拉科打开温室的门，走出四月的细雨，走进潮湿的高温中时，他听到了沙沙作响和叹息声，这表明他父亲的存在。

It had taken Draco a few days to work up the courage to pass along Granger’s request. Astoria had been very taken with the idea, agreeing with his instinct that it might be good for his father to talk to someone, anyone, who wasn’t them. But when Draco had tried to talk tactics about how to broach the matter with Lucius, Astoria had become impatient.
德拉科花了几天时间才鼓起勇气把格兰杰的请求转达了。阿斯托利亚对这个主意非常感兴趣，他同意他的直觉，即他的父亲与不是他们的人交谈可能是件好事。但当德拉科试图讨论如何与卢修斯讨论这件事的策略时，阿斯托利亚已经变得不耐烦了。

“He’s your father,” she’d said as though that somehow solved his problem and didn't make it more difficult. “Just talk to him.” 
“他是你的爸爸，”她说，仿佛这以某种方式解决了他的问题，并没有让事情变得更困难。“跟他谈谈就好。”

As though it was that easy. The Greengrasses had always been a curiously communicative family. For Pure-bloods, anyway. Most of the time, Draco appreciated the positive influence that Astoria’s relatively pleasant upbringing brought to their own relationship; thanks to her insistence, they talked to one another, shared things. Against his expectations, the openness made him happier and, as far as he was concerned, better. But when she tried to encourage him to take the same approach with his father, he wondered how much she actually paid attention to, or understood, the family she had married into.
好像就这么简单。格林格拉斯一家一直是一个善于交流的家庭。无论如何，对于纯血统来说。大多数时候，德拉科很欣赏阿斯托利亚相对愉快的成长经历给他们自己的关系带来的积极影响;多亏了她的坚持，他们彼此交谈，分享东西。出乎他意料的是，这种开放让他更快乐，对他来说，这让他变得更好。但是，当她试图鼓励他对他的父亲采取同样的方法时，他想知道她实际上有多关注或理解她嫁入的这个家庭。

Ducking under damp hanging leaves and stepping around green tentacles that wriggled threateningly when he veered too close, Draco eventually found his father hunched over a workstation in the centre of the greenhouse. On hearing his son’s footsteps approaching, Lucius looked up from the notes he was taking.
Draco 躲在潮湿的垂叶下，绕过绿色的触手，当他转向太近时，这些触手会威胁性地蠕动，最终发现他的父亲正弯着腰坐在温室中央的一个工作站上。听到儿子的脚步声靠近，卢修斯从他正在记下的笔记中抬起头来。

“Draco,” he said in greeting, straightening up and setting his quill down. The stiffness of his tone was only ever matched by the stiffness of his posture these days.
“德拉科，”他打招呼说，直起身来放下他的羽毛笔。如今，他语气的僵硬与他的姿势僵硬相得益彰。

“Father,” Draco nodded and, hands in his pockets, approached the workstation to peer down at his father’s neat notes.
“爸爸，”德拉科点点头，双手插在口袋里，走近工作台，低头看了看他爸爸那整齐的笔记。

“The asphodel is coming along well,” Lucius said, pointing to a series of measurements he had recorded with accompanying scaled diagrams.
“水仙子进展顺利，”卢修斯说，指着他记录的一系列测量结果和随附的比例图。

After a quick glance at Lucius for permission, Draco slid the parchment towards himself so that he could read it better. He found he couldn’t entirely take it in—his mind was mostly occupied with how the hell he was going to ask his father to talk to Granger. 
德拉科快速看了一眼卢修斯，请求允许后，将羊皮纸滑向自己，以便他能更好地阅读。他发现自己无法完全理解——他的脑子里大部分时间都放在了他到底要如何让他的父亲和格兰杰谈谈。

Lucius hadn’t been best pleased when Draco had revealed his intention to take part in Granger’s project. The arguments had been numerous, long and, to Astoria’s exasperation, eventually rather loud. But, in the end, Lucius Malfoy had been forced to realise that it was no longer in his power to stop his son doing what he wanted. It hadn’t— still didn’t—sit well.  
卢修斯对德拉科透露他打算参与格兰杰的项目感到不高兴。争论很多次，很长，而且，令阿斯托利亚恼火的是，最终相当响亮。但是，到头来，卢修斯·马尔福被迫意识到，他已经没有能力阻止他的儿子为所欲为了。它没有——仍然没有——坐好。

“You’re right,” Draco murmured, sliding the parchment back across the workbench. “It won’t be long before I can collect it for my potions.”
“你说得对，”德拉科喃喃自语，一边把羊皮纸滑回工作台上。“用不了多久，我就可以收集它来制作我的魔药了。”

Lucius nodded and stepped back to remove the protective apron he wore while working in the greenhouse. Draco couldn’t help but shake his head when his father’s smart white shirt and suit trousers were revealed. He couldn’t count how many times he’d tried to tell Lucius that he might find casual clothes more comfortable for his work in the greenhouse but, without fail, his father would look down at what he was wearing and snap that it was casual. Probably because it didn’t involve a cravat. There was, Draco supposed, some comfort to be found in his father’s insistence in retaining his dress habits. He could take them as a sign that he didn’t have to worry that much.
卢修斯点点头，向后退一步，取下了他在温室工作时穿的防护围裙。当他爸爸的时髦白衬衫和西装裤被揭露时，德拉科忍不住摇了摇头。他数不清有多少次他试图告诉卢修斯，他可能会觉得休闲装更适合他在温室里工作，但毫无疑问，他的父亲会低头看他穿的衣服，说这是休闲装。可能是因为它不涉及领结。德拉科想，从他父亲坚持保持他的着装习惯中可以找到一些安慰。他可以把这些看作是他不必那么担心的标志。

“I will let you know when it’s ready,” Lucius said, neatly folding his apron and slotting it into a shelf under the workbench.
“等它准备好了，我会告诉你的，”卢修斯说，整齐地折叠他的围裙，把它塞进工作台下的架子里。

“Thank you, father. Are you sure I can’t help—”
“谢谢你，爸爸。你确定我帮不上忙吗——”

“Draco,” Lucius interrupted, his tone terse, “as I have told you multiple times: I do not require your assistance. I may not be able to use my magic anymore but I can still do this .” 
“德拉科，”卢修斯打断了他，语气简洁，“我已经告诉过你好几次了：我不需要你的帮助。我可能无法再使用我的魔法了，但我仍然可以做到这一点。

Draco swallowed his urge to ask his father if he’d ever considered that working in the greenhouse might be something they could do together as equals, without any implication that one of them was any more or less skilled than the other. But he knew he would be wasting his breath. The Magic Dampener had wounded his father’s pride and, as yet, Draco had not found a way to heal it that did not involve simply staying out of his way for prolonged periods.
德拉科忍住了自己的冲动，问他爸爸，他有没有想过在温室里工作可能是他们可以平等地一起做的事情，而没有任何暗示他们中的一个比另一个更熟练或更不熟练。但他知道他会浪费呼吸。魔法阻尼器已经伤害了他父亲的自尊心，到目前为止，德拉科还没有找到一种不涉及长时间不挡他的路的方法来治愈它。

Wearing a frown, Lucius began unrolling his shirt sleeves from their position at his elbows, picking up his cufflinks from where he’d left them on the table. “Why are you here, Draco?”
卢修斯皱着眉头，开始从肘部的位置解开衬衫袖子，从他放在桌子上的地方捡起他的袖扣。“你为什么在这里，德拉科？”

It was hard not to sigh. Couldn’t he just be coming to see his father? Was that really so hard for him to consider?
很难不叹息。他就不能来看他的爸爸吗？这对他来说真的很难考虑吗？

“I finished my meetings with Granger.”
“我结束了与格兰杰的会议。”

“Why,” Lucius drawled, inserting his second cufflink and pulling his sleeve straight with what Draco perceived to be an unnecessary sharpness, “do you think that would be of any interest to me?”
“为什么，”卢修斯抽出手，插上他的第二个袖扣，用德拉科认为不必要的尖锐方式拉直了他的袖子，“你觉得这会引起我的兴趣吗？

“Well, you were so concerned over my decision to take part in them, I thought you might be pleased to know that they’re over and that they actually went very well.”
“嗯，你对我参加比赛的决定如此担心，我想你可能会很高兴知道他们已经结束了，而且他们实际上进行得非常顺利。”

Lucius tsked and stepped around Draco, heading in the direction of the exit with surprising speed. “I would have been pleased had they not taken place at all. As it is, I care as little about how those meetings went as you cared about my opinion on them.”
卢修斯啧了一声，绕过德拉科，以惊人的速度朝着出口的方向走去。“如果它们根本没有发生，我会很高兴。事实上，我并不关心那些会议的进展情况，就像你关心我对它们的看法一样。

Whacking a hanging leaf out of his face and ducking under another, Draco followed his father. They were getting off to a bad start. “Are you really just not going to tell me that she’s been sending you owls for weeks?”
Draco从脸上捶下一片挂叶，躲在另一片树叶下，跟着他的父亲走。他们的开局很糟糕。“你真的不打算告诉我她已经给你送了好几个星期的猫头鹰了吗？”

“Why would I?”
“我为什么呢？”

“Well, you might find that talking about it is a better approach than marching around the manor wearing a scowl as you have been.”
“嗯，你可能会发现谈论这件事比像以前那样皱着眉头在庄园里走来走去要好。”

They exited the mugginess of the greenhouse and Draco appreciatively gulped down the cool, fresh spring air. Lucius stopped abruptly and turned to face Draco with his arms crossed.
他们走出了闷热的温室，德拉科感激地大口大口地呼吸着凉爽、清新的春天空气。卢修斯突然停下脚步，转身面对双臂交叉的德拉科。

“She will give up.”
“她会放弃的。”

Draco barked out a laugh. “You don’t know Hermione Granger.”
德拉科大笑起来。“你不了解赫敏·格兰杰。”

“And I do not want to,” Lucius snapped. “I’m not like you and Astoria; I am not willing to lower myself.”
“我不想，”卢修斯厉声说。“我不像你和阿斯托利亚;我不愿意降低自己。

“I have not lowered myself.” 
“我没有降低自己。”

“We will agree to disagree. As ever, these days.”
“我们会同意不同意。这些天一如既往。

Lucius spun on his heel and began to make his way through the grounds and back towards the manor. With an aggravated tut , Draco followed him, increasing his pace to a light jog to catch up and keep up.
卢修斯转身，开始穿过地面，回到庄园。德拉科恼怒地啧啧了一声，跟在他后面，加快了他的步伐，以轻快的慢跑来追上并跟上。

“She asked me to talk to you,” Draco said, just about managing to stop himself from reaching out to grab his father’s elbow. That would take them from bad to worse. “About taking part in her project.”
“她让我和你谈谈，”德拉科说，几乎要设法阻止自己伸手抓住他父亲的胳膊肘。这将使他们变得更糟。“关于参加她的项目。”

“My son: the Mudblood’s messenger. How wonderful. You can’t imagine my pride.”
“我的儿子：泥巴种的信使。多么美妙。你无法想象我的骄傲。

“Don’t call her that,” Draco said, coming up alongside Lucius. The light spring rain had started again and Draco impatiently brushed a damp lock of hair away from his forehead, glaring at the side of his father’s resolute and stony face.
“别这么叫她，”德拉科说，走到卢修斯身边。小春雨又开始了，德拉科不耐烦地拂去额头上的一缕湿漉漉的头发，瞪着他父亲坚毅而坚硬的脸庞。

“It’s what she is.”
“这就是她。”

“It’s not—she’s not—she’s not what that word means.”
“不是——她不是——她不是那个词的意思。”

Lucius did nothing more than scoff, his eyes fixed on the looming manor. It was clear he seemed to think that if he could just get inside, he’d be able to shake Draco off and end their conversation. Draco had no intention of letting him do that.
卢修斯只做了些嘲笑，他的眼睛盯着若隐若现的庄园。很明显，他似乎在想，如果他能进去，他就能把德拉科甩开，结束他们的谈话。德拉科无意让他那样做。

“She wants to interview you like she interviewed me,” Draco pressed.
“她想像采访我一样采访你，”德拉科追问道。

“I don’t care what she wants.”
“我不在乎她想要什么。”

“Fine then,” Draco snapped, his patience utterly frayed. “ I want her to interview you.”
“那就好，”德拉科厉声说，他的耐心完全被磨碎了。“我想让她采访你。”

They reached the entrance to the manor and Lucius stopped, forcing Draco to almost trip over his own feet to avoid crashing into the back of him. Lucius turned to look at his son and though he didn’t say ‘I don’t care what you want’, Draco had a feeling it was on the tip of his tongue. He found he was actually grateful that his father had managed to find it in himself to swallow the words. 
他们来到了庄园的入口，卢修斯停了下来，迫使德拉科差点被自己的脚绊倒，以免撞到他的后背。卢修斯转头看向他的儿子，虽然他没有说“我不在乎你想要什么”，但德拉科有一种感觉，这在他的舌尖上。他发现他其实很感激他的父亲设法在自己身上找到了吞下这些话的能力。

“What harm can it do to speak to her?” Draco asked, imploring.
“跟她说话有什么害处？”德拉科恳求地问。

“A great deal of harm, Draco. Are you really so naive?” Lucius asked, his eyes narrowing. “Our name is tarnished enough as it is. I will not allow some spiteful little Mudblood to take my words and twist them into whatever shape suits her for her book of post-war glorification.”
“伤害很大，德拉科。你真的这么天真吗？卢修斯眯起眼睛问道。“我们的名字已经被玷污得够厉害了。我不会允许一些恶毒的小泥巴种把我的话歪曲成任何适合她战后荣耀之书的形状。

“Granger wouldn’t do that. I’ve already told you that’s not what she’s trying to do. She’s not like the Prophet hacks that were snooping around, she’s…honourable.” The word sounded ridiculously old-fashioned to Draco’s ears but, really, that’s exactly what Granger was.
“格兰杰不会那样做。我已经告诉过你，那不是她想做的事情。她不像那些四处窥探的先知黑客，她是......尊敬的。这个词在德拉科的耳朵里听起来很老套，但实际上，这正是格兰杰的本质。

A mocking smile, closer to a sneer, crawled its way onto Lucius’ face. “Does dear Astoria know you defend the Granger girl so passionately ?”
一个嘲讽的笑容，更接近于冷笑，爬上了卢修斯的脸。“亲爱的阿斯托利亚知道你如此热情地保护格兰杰女孩吗？”

“Don’t try to change the subject by twisting my association with Granger into something it isn’t,” Draco said, his hands curling into fists. “She wants to record your words exactly. She’s not got an agenda.”
“不要试图通过扭曲我和格兰杰的联系来改变话题，”德拉科说，他的手蜷缩成拳头。“她想把你的话准确地记录下来。她没有议程。

Eyes rolling, as though he could hardly bear to hear what he was hearing, Lucius drawled, “ Everyone has an agenda, Draco.”
卢修斯翻了个白眼，仿佛几乎不忍心听到他所听到的，他抽了抽，“每个人都有议程，德拉科。

“No. She’s thorough, she’s...honest. She’s Granger . This is just the kind of thing she does.” 
“不。她很彻底，她......诚实。她是格兰杰。她就是这样做的。

There was a pause in which Lucius considered his son with a mildly nauseated expression. “I am not interested and I am not willing to discuss this further.”
停顿了一下，卢修斯用略带恶心的表情看着他的儿子。“我不感兴趣，也不愿意进一步讨论这个问题。”

As Lucius turned to enter the manor, Draco reached out, stopping just short of touching Lucius’ back. “If you help her, she’ll help you.”
当卢修斯转身进入庄园时，德拉科伸出手来，在碰到卢修斯的背之前停了下来。“如果你帮助她，她也会帮助你。”

Lucius dropped his hand from the door. His raised shoulders spoke to his reluctance as he fractionally turned his head to the side to look at his son out of the corner of his eye. “How could she possibly help me ?”
卢修斯把手从门上放了下来。他抬起的肩膀说出了他的不情愿，他微微地把头转向一边，用眼角的余光看着他的儿子。“她怎么可能帮我？”

“She said she’d talk to Shacklebolt about reducing your sentence. Maybe even getting your wand back. Don’t you want that?”
“她说她会和 Shacklebolt 谈谈减刑的事情。甚至可能拿回你的魔杖。你不想要那个吗？

Lucius huffed out a disbelieving little laugh and dropped his head so that he was gazing down at his perfectly polished leather shoes. “And you honestly think that she could manage that?”
卢修斯难以置信地笑了起来，低下头，低头凝视着他那双擦得完美的皮鞋。“你真的觉得她能办到吗？”

“She’s a war hero who fought alongside the Minister for Magic himself. If I were you, I wouldn’t make any assumptions about what Hermione Granger can and cannot manage. She’s in a better position than either of us to plead your case.”
“她是一位与魔法部长本人并肩作战的战争英雄。如果我是你，我不会对赫敏·格兰杰能做什么和不能做什么做出任何假设。她比我们中的任何一个人都更适合为你辩护。

There was a pause in which Draco stared at the back of his father's head. It was about as useful as looking at his face given the uncompromising impassivity that had taken residence there.
德拉科盯着他父亲的后脑勺停顿了一下。这和看着他的脸一样有用，因为那里已经占据了不妥协的冷漠。

“Write to her,” Draco said with a sigh and a shake of his head. “Just...see what she has to say.”
“写信给她，”德拉科叹了口气，摇了摇头说。“只是......看看她怎么说。

With a cursory look over his shoulder that took in his son’s increasingly lank hair and the imploring tilt to his eyebrows, Lucius entered the manor without another word. Draco waited several minutes before following him. 
卢修斯粗略地回头看了一眼，注意到儿子越来越稀疏的头发和恳求的眉毛，一言不发地走进了庄园。德拉科等了几分钟才跟着他。

His father was bitter, lonely and frustrated, he reminded himself in an attempt to soothe his temper. He lashed out because he had too much pride to do anything else. Granger would have her work cut out if she ever got close enough to start it.
他的父亲痛苦、孤独和沮丧，他提醒自己，试图平息自己的脾气。他猛烈抨击是因为他太骄傲了，不敢做任何其他事情。如果格兰杰离得足够近，可以开始这项工作，她的工作就会被淘汰。

Hermione dropped her parchment onto the sofa cushion beside her and rubbed her eyes. Glancing down at her watch, she saw it was getting close to midnight. That meant she’d been working on editing Kingsley’s interviews for four hours. No wonder there was a pain forming in the back of her head. And the front. And the sides. 
赫敏把羊皮纸丢在旁边的沙发垫上，揉了揉眼睛。她低头看了一眼手表，发现已经接近午夜了。这意味着她已经花了四个小时来编辑金斯利的采访。难怪她的后脑勺会感到疼痛。还有前面。还有侧面。

Exhaling, she rolled her shoulders and dropped her neck back to rest it against the sofa, staring at the speckled white plaster of her ceiling. The idea of getting up and going through her pre-bed routine felt like too much. It was far more tempting to just move her parchment to the coffee table and curl up on her side. As she debated with herself over just how much more comfortable her bed really was, Hermione heard a soft tapping at her living room window. Rolling her head to the side, she saw the glowing orange eyes of an owl peering through the glass. 
她呼出一口气，转动肩膀，把脖子向后垂，靠在沙发上，盯着天花板上斑驳的白色石膏。起床并完成她的睡前例行公事的想法感觉太过分了。把她的羊皮纸移到咖啡桌上，蜷缩在一边要诱人得多。当她和自己争论她的床到底舒服了多少时，赫敏听到客厅的窗户轻轻敲打。她把头转向一边，看到一只猫头鹰闪闪发光的橙色眼睛透过玻璃窥视着。

Blinking away the blurred vision caused by her prolonged intense focus, Hermione rose to her feet and approached the window, opening the latch to slide it up. Cool night air blew into the room, raising goosebumps on her arms as the owl hopped over the threshold and spread its large wings to soar onto her coffee table.
赫敏眨了眨眼，驱散了她长时间集中注意力造成的模糊视线，站起身来，走近窗户，打开门闩，将窗户滑上去。凉爽的夜风吹进房间，当猫头鹰跳过门槛，张开大翅膀翱翔到她的咖啡桌上时，她的手臂起了鸡皮疙瘩。

It was an eagle owl that she didn’t recognise, with a plumage that was unusually pale for the species. It was far too well-cared and well-behaved to be a post office owl. Standing on the center of her table, giving her an imperious look, it held out a leg bearing a scroll of parchment. Approaching slowly, Hermione gently untied the parchment and, with one more questioning glance up at the owl, split the wax seal to unfurl it.
这是一只她不认识的雕鸮，它的羽毛对这个物种来说异常苍白。它太被照顾了，也太乖巧了，不可能是一只邮局的猫头鹰。它站在桌子的中央，专横地看着她，伸出一条腿，上面放着一卷羊皮纸。赫敏慢慢地走近，轻轻地解开羊皮纸，又疑惑地抬头看了猫头鹰一眼，劈开蜡封，展开了它。

“Miss Granger,
“格兰杰小姐，

I do not appreciate you press ganging my son into the army of owls you have recruited to harass me these past weeks. I am not interested in your project or its aims, whatever they may be. If you are trying to appeal to my better nature, you are not going about it the right way. Desist.
我不感激你强迫我的儿子加入你在过去几周招募来骚扰我的猫头鹰大军。我对你的项目或它的目标不感兴趣，无论它们是什么。如果你试图迎合我更好的本性，那你就没有以正确的方式去做。停止。

Lucius A. Malfoy”
卢修斯·马尔福”

Hermione’s grip on the parchment tightened as she scanned its contents. Better nature ? Who was he kidding? Lowering it, she fixed her attention on the glaring owl.
赫敏在扫描羊皮纸上的内容时握得更紧了。 更好的自然 ？他在开谁玩笑？放下它，她把注意力集中在那只瞪着眼睛的猫头鹰身上。

“ Wait ,” she said to it, dropping the parchment to spring across the hall into the kitchen, her socks sliding on the tiled floor. Snatching a leaf of parchment, her quill and some ink from the table, she returned to the living room, relieved to see that the owl had listened. 
“等等，”她对它说，扔下羊皮纸，穿过走廊跳进厨房，她的袜子在瓷砖地板上滑动。她从桌子上抓起一张羊皮纸、羽毛笔和一些墨水，回到客厅，看到猫头鹰听了，她松了一口气。

“I’ll be two seconds,” she promised, holding up two fingers. The owl clicked its beak haughtily and reluctantly hopped to the side to give her room as she lowered herself to her knees in front of the coffee table to scrawl a hasty reply. 
“我等两秒钟，”她承诺道，举起两根手指。猫头鹰傲慢地咔嚓咔嚓地咔嚓咔嚓地喙，不情愿地跳到一边让给她空间，同时她跪在咖啡桌前，匆匆地回答。

“Mr Malfoy,
“马尔福先生，

If you weren’t interested in what I have to say, we both know you would have simply continued to ignore me. And I’m fairly sure your owl would have ignored my request to stay.”
如果你对我要说的话不感兴趣，我们都知道你只会继续无视我。而且我相当确定你的猫头鹰会无视我留下来的请求。

Out of her corner of her eyes, Hermione could see the owl was looking down at her parchment, and wondered if it could read what she was writing. 
赫敏用眼角的余光看到猫头鹰正低头看着她的羊皮纸，想知道它是否能读懂她在写什么。

“I can only assume that Draco told you what I’m willing to offer you in exchange for your cooperation and that you wish to have it in writing by my own hand. I would like to interview you and I am willing to advocate to the Minister on your behalf for some kind of respite in your sentence. I would prefer to discuss this in person and ask you to please consider a meeting. You do not need to give me your final answer now.
“我只能假设德拉科告诉你，我愿意给你什么来换取你的合作，而且你希望我亲手把它写成。我想采访你，我愿意代表你向部长寻求某种缓刑。我更愿意亲自讨论这个问题，并请您考虑召开一次会议。你现在不需要给我最后的答案。

Regards,
问候

Hermione J. Granger.”
赫敏·格兰杰。

On seeing her pleading face, the owl held out its leg in a way that made Hermione think that if it could have rolled its eyes in disdain, it would have. It was, however, extremely still and patient as her shaking hands fumbled with the parchment. 
看到她恳求的脸，猫头鹰伸出腿，让赫敏觉得，如果它能轻蔑地翻白眼，它就会这样做。然而，当她颤抖的手摸索着羊皮纸时，它却是极其静止和耐心的。

Once the owl had departed, Hermione exhaled slowly and sank from her knees onto her backside on the floor, leaning her back against the base of the sofa. Lucius Malfoy was surely interested, surely . He wouldn’t have written otherwise. Resting her forearms on her knees, Hermione turned her gaze to the still-open window. There was no point in her going to bed now; she had to wait for a reply. He would reply.
猫头鹰一走，赫敏慢慢地呼出一口气，从膝盖上沉到地板上的背上，背靠在沙发的底座上。卢修斯·马尔福肯定很感兴趣，肯定。他不会写其他东西。赫敏将前臂放在膝盖上，将目光转向仍然敞开的窗户。她现在上床睡觉已经没有意义了;她不得不等待回复。他会回答。

Hermione wasn’t sure how long passed but when the owl swooped back through her open window, she sat up straight and clambered onto her feet. With a baleful look, the owl held out its leg. Unfurling the parchment, Hermione hungrily read the brief reply.
赫敏不确定过了多久，但当猫头鹰从她敞开的窗户猛扑回来时，她坐直了身子，爬了起来。猫头鹰一脸恶毒地伸出了腿。展开羊皮纸，赫敏如饥似渴地阅读着简短的回复。

“ April 27th. 2pm. The Manor.” 
“4 月 27 日。下午 2 点，庄园。

Eyebrow raised, she peered at the owl. “Well, I’m not really sure how I’m supposed to reply to that,” she said, holding the parchment up for it to read, “are you?”
她扬起眉毛，凝视着猫头鹰。“嗯，我不太确定我该怎么回答，”她说，一边举起羊皮纸让它读起来，“你是吗？

With a hoot, the owl spread its wings and took off out the window. Still holding the parchment, Hermione slid the window closed behind it and then bent her head to re-read what Malfoy had written. Rude , she thought, her lips pursed. Not that that was surprising. She could tell the full stops—an impressive amount of them relative to the number of words he had written—appeared to have been almost stabbed into the parchment. It was remarkable his quill hadn’t pierced through. But she had his interest and if she got what she wanted, he could be as rude as he liked.
猫头鹰吼了一声，张开了翅膀，飞出了窗外。赫敏仍然拿着羊皮纸，把窗户关上，然后低下头重新读了一遍马尔福写的东西。 粗鲁，她想，抿起嘴唇。这并不奇怪。她能看出那些句号——相对于他写的字数来说，这个句号的数量相当可观——似乎几乎被刺进了羊皮纸。值得注意的是，他的羽毛笔没有刺穿。但她有他的兴趣，如果她得到了她想要的，他可以随心所欲地粗鲁。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

In the next chapter, Lucius and Hermione finally come face to face.
在下一章中，卢修斯和赫敏终于面对面了。

Chapter 4
第 4 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Malfoy have their first meeting
赫敏和马尔福第一次见面

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you for the wonderful responses all :D Things get rolling here, though they roll slowly, I'll be honest.
感谢大家的精彩回复:D事情在这里发展，尽管它们发展得很慢，但我会说实话。

April 27th 
4 月 27 日

Hermione was nervous. Nervous enough that the entire morning before her meeting with Lucius Malfoy was a write-off. Every time she tried to focus on writing or reading, her mind wandered to Malfoy Manor. It would be the first time she’d been there since…well, since the last time. The time when her friends had been locked in the dungeon and she had been pulled by her hair onto the drawing room floor to be tortured by Bellatrix Lestrange. The faint scar on Hermione’s forearm itched at the memory. 
赫敏很紧张。她紧张到她与卢修斯·马尔福会面前的整个上午都被注销了。每次她试图专注于写作或阅读时，她的思绪都会飘向马尔福庄园。这将是她从那以后第一次来这里......嗯，自从上次以来。她的朋友们被锁在地牢里，她被拽着头发拉到客厅的地板上，被贝拉特里克斯·莱斯特兰奇折磨。赫敏前臂上淡淡的伤疤在回忆中发痒。

Whenever Hermione thought she was at risk of becoming overwhelmed by the memory of that night, she liked to close her eyes and recount the key gains they’d made out of it—the location of the cup, the help of Griphook, the loyalty of the Elder Wand. It didn’t make the memories go away, it didn’t make what had happened to her any better, but re-framing it made it easier for her to breathe. In the waking hours, at least. Getting a rational grip on nightmares was a little more difficult. 
每当赫敏觉得自己有可能被那天晚上的记忆所淹没时，她就会闭上眼睛，讲述他们从中得到的关键收获——杯子的位置，拉环的帮助，老魔杖的忠诚。这并没有让记忆消失，也没有让发生在她身上的事情变得更好，但重新构建它让她更容易呼吸。至少在醒着的时候。理性地控制噩梦有点困难。

Hermione wondered if Lucius Malfoy had chosen 2pm with an ulterior motive—it was a time that was preceded by just enough waking hours to allow her to sink into dread. Depositing her barely-eaten lunch on the kitchen counter, she glanced up at the clock for what might have been the sixth or seventh time that hour. Almost time.
赫敏想知道卢修斯·马尔福选择下午2点是不是别有用心——在那之前，她醒着的时间刚好足以让她陷入恐惧。她把几乎没吃完的午餐放在厨房的柜台上，抬头看了一眼时钟，这可能是那个小时的第六次或第七次了。差不多时间了。

As much to distract herself as anything, Hermione walked through to her living room and hauled her bulky, worn leather satchel onto the coffee table, opening it to inspect its contents. She had her Quick Quotes Quill, spare parchment, a fresh Wheezebox, a Muggle notebook and pen, and three books in case she found herself somewhere with time to read. She wasn’t expecting to interview Lucius Malfoy on their first meeting but it never hurt to be prepared. 
为了分散自己的注意力，赫敏走进她的客厅，把她笨重、破旧的皮包拖到咖啡桌上，打开它检查里面的东西。她有她的快速报价羽毛笔、备用羊皮纸、一个新的喘息盒、一个麻瓜笔记本和钢笔，还有三本书，以防她有时间阅读。她没想到会在他们的第一次见面时采访卢修斯·马尔福，但做好准备从来没有坏处。

What she didn’t have was any kind of offer from Kingsley. Given Lucius Malfoy had only offered her a week between contact and meeting, it was nigh on impossible that she’d manage to get a meeting with the Minister for Magic at such short notice. Perhaps the elder Malfoy knew that would be the case, or hoped it would. Hermione had, however, been able to secure a meeting for the day after so, depending on how things went, she knew she had that to dangle in front of him.
她没有得到的是金斯利的任何形式的提议。鉴于卢修斯·马尔福只给她提供了一周的接触和会面时间，她几乎不可能在这么短的时间内与魔法部长会面。也许老马尔福知道会是这样，或者希望会这样。然而，赫敏已经能够安排第二天的会议，所以，根据事情的进展，她知道她有这个机会在他面前悬着。

When the time approached a quarter to, Hermione took a fortifying deep breath and left her flat, apparating from outside her front door to the gate outside Malfoy Manor as Draco had instructed. 
当时间接近四分之一时，赫敏深吸了一口气，离开了她的公寓，按照德拉科的指示，从她的前门外幻影来到马尔福庄园外的大门。

The morning after receiving his father’s letter, she had written to thank him. His reply had expressed little but surprise. Clearly, she thought, he hadn’t expected he would be successful but he had given her more comprehensive instructions on how to get to the manor. 
收到他父亲的信后的第二天早上，她写信感谢他。他的回答除了惊讶之外，几乎没有什么表情。显然，她想，他没想到自己会成功，但他已经给了她更全面的指示，告诉她如何到达庄园。

The wrought iron gates were an unfriendly early impression but, as Draco had promised, when Hermione informed them of her name and the purpose of her visit, they swung open. Without any ominous creaking, incredibly. 
这些锻铁门给人的早期印象很不友好，但正如德拉科所承诺的那样，当赫敏告诉他们她的名字和她来此的目的时，它们就打开了。令人难以置信的是，没有任何不祥的吱吱声。

The gravel drive stretched out in front of her and Hermione was grateful that the April cloud and rain had broken to reveal a spotlessly blue sky and beaming sun. Sliding her light jacket from her shoulders, she slung it over her satchel and began her walk. 
碎石路在她面前延伸，赫敏很庆幸四月的乌云和雨水已经打破，露出一尘不染的蓝天和灿烂的阳光。她从肩膀上脱下轻便的夹克，把它挂在书包上，开始走路。

The grass on either side of her was absurdly green and she would have been amazed if magic wasn’t somehow involved in its care. The same went for the exquisitely shaped hedges that lined the drive. As she moved further from the front gate, Hermione found, looking left and right, that the walls that surrounded the grounds disappeared from view. She could have fooled herself into thinking she was in an open park, were it not for the enormous manor looming ahead of her. 
她两边的草都是荒谬的绿色，如果不是魔法以某种方式参与照顾它，她会感到惊讶。车道两旁形状精美的树篱也是如此。当她从前门走得更远时，赫敏发现，左右看了看，包围着院子的墙壁已经从视线中消失了。她本可以自欺欺人地以为自己在一个开放的公园里，如果不是眼前是一座巨大的庄园。

A rustle from a hedge ahead made Hermione stop short, her breath held and her hand clutching the strap of her bag. With a shrill trill, a large bird came strutting out in front of her. It was, she realised with a perplexed blink, a peacock. It was snow white, almost glowing, and Hermione gaped as it passed her by without a single glance in her direction.
前方树篱传来的沙沙声让赫敏停了下来，她屏住了呼吸，手紧紧抓住了包的带子。随着一声尖锐的颤音，一只大鸟昂首阔步地出现在她面前。她困惑地眨了眨眼，意识到那是一只孔雀。它是雪白的，几乎发光，赫敏目瞪口呆地看着它从她身边经过，没有看她一眼。

It wasn’t until the peacock had disappeared completely from her view that Hermione continued her walk, her head shaking in wonder. It somehow made so much sense to her that Draco Malfoy had been raised in a house where playing in the front garden could lead to an unfortunate encounter with a territorial and aggressive species of bird. No wonder he was so insistent about which mug he used.
直到孔雀完全从她的视线中消失后，赫敏才继续走着，她的头惊奇地摇了摇。不知何故，德拉科·马尔福是在一所房子里长大的，在前花园玩耍可能会导致不幸地遇到一种有领地意识和攻击性的鸟类。难怪他对自己用的杯子如此执着。

Turning a corner, Hermione was finally greeted with a view of the whole front of the manor, rather than just a portion of it. It was an undeniably beautiful home. Obviously old but without the worn, weathered look that affected most old Muggle buildings. If she had to make a guess, she would have said it was in the French style, with a dark roof and pale stone walls that were lined with tall, rectangular windows.
转过一个拐角，赫敏终于看到了庄园的整个正面，而不仅仅是它的一部分。不可否认，这是一个美丽的家。显然很旧，但没有影响大多数古老麻瓜建筑的破旧、风化的外观。如果非要她猜的话，她会说这是法式风格，深色的屋顶和苍白的石墙，两旁是高大的矩形窗户。

By the time she got to the front door, the heat of the sun had caused a faint band of perspiration to form around Hermione’s hairline and on the back of her neck. Fanning her hair out to ease her discomfort, she contemplated the two enormous wooden front doors and the round door knockers at their centres. Stepping forward, squinting at the worn iron, Hermione noted that they depicted an ouroboros. 
当她走到前门时，太阳的热量已经使赫敏的发际线和脖子后面形成了一条淡淡的汗带。她把头发扇开以缓解她的不适，凝视着两扇巨大的木制前门和位于它们中央的圆形门环。赫敏向前走，眯着眼睛看着破旧的熨斗，注意到它们描绘的是衔尾蛇。

Flexing her hand a few times, she finally reached up and gripped the cold iron. Lifting it, she banged it against the door once, twice, and then allowed it to rest. It didn’t take long before the door on the right swung open and Hermione came face to face with Draco Malfoy. 
她弯曲了几次手，终于伸手抓住了冰冷的熨斗。她抬起它，在门上敲了一会儿、两下，然后让它静下来。没过多久，右边的门就打开了，赫敏与德拉科·马尔福面对面。

“Oh,” she said, her head pulling back. “I didn’t expect you.”
“哦，”她说，把头往后拉。“我没想到你。”

Oddly, the sight of him comforted her. He had, she guessed, simply become familiar to her over the weeks they had spent together; a friendly face. It made sense that his presence went some small way to offsetting the unpleasantness of returning to the manor.  
奇怪的是，看到他让她感到安慰。她猜想，他只是在他们一起度过的几周里对她变得熟悉了;一张友好的面孔。他的出现在某种程度上抵消了返回庄园的不愉快，这是有道理的。

“You know this is my house, right?” he asked wryly.
“你知道这是我的房子，对吧？”

“Well, yes, but I didn’t think you’d do things like answer doors. Bit menial for you.”
“嗯，是的，但我没想到你会做像应答门这样的事情。对你来说有点卑微。

Draco rolled his eyes and stepped back from the door, sweeping his arm out to invite her in. “Fucking hell, Granger, at least step over the threshold before casting aspersions.”
德拉科翻了个白眼，从门口往后退了一步，伸出手臂邀请她进来。“他妈的，格兰杰，至少在辱骂之前跨过门槛。”

“Nice peacocks, by the way,” she said, walking into the entrance hall, more focused on trying to take in all of her surroundings than on Draco’s disgruntled face. 
“顺便说一句，漂亮的孔雀，”她说，走进门厅，比起Draco那张不满的脸，她更专注于试图把周围的所有东西都看进去。

“I fucking hate them,” he muttered, closing the door behind her.
“我他妈的讨厌他们，”他咕哝着，关上了她身后的门。

The entrance hall of Malfoy Manor was grand. That was, Hermione thought, the only word for it really. A pale stone floor spread out beneath her feet until it reached an imperial staircase flanked by beautifully ornate stone bannisters. Hermione’s footsteps echoed in the cavernous space and she turned on the spot, her gaze lifting to the high, vaulted ceiling.
马尔福庄园的门厅很宏伟。赫敏想，这是唯一能形容它的词。苍白的石头地板在她的脚下展开，直到它到达一个帝王楼梯，两侧是美丽华丽的石栏杆。赫敏的脚步声在洞穴中回荡，她原地转过身来，目光抬头看向高高的拱形天花板。

“You know,” Draco said in a sly voice, his hands in his pockets as he watched her, “If I didn’t know better, I’d venture to say that you might be impressed.”
“你知道的，”德拉科用狡猾的声音说，双手插在口袋里看着她，“如果我不知道的话，我敢说你可能会留下深刻的印象。

Hermione stopped, dragging her eyes away from the enormous crystal chandelier that hung down in the centre of the room to scoff at Draco. “You’ve been in my flat, yes? I can’t remember the last time I had this much space while still being inside .”
赫敏停了下来，把目光从挂在房间中央的巨大水晶吊灯上移开，嘲笑德拉科。“你一直在我的公寓里，对吧？我不记得上一次我还在里面的时候有这么多空间是什么时候了。

“It gets annoying,” he said, moving towards the staircase and gesturing for her to follow. “This hall feels twice as big when you're desperate for a piss and running across it to get to the bathroom. Come on. You’re meeting my father in his study.”
“这很烦人，”他说，走向楼梯，示意她跟上。“当你急切地想小便并跑过它去洗手间时，这个大厅感觉要大一倍。加油。你在我爸爸的书房里见他。

As they walked upstairs, Hermione still looking around with interest but keeping her hands firmly to herself, Draco said, “I thought I might sit in, if that’s alright.”
当他们走上楼时，赫敏仍然饶有兴趣地环顾四周，但双手紧紧地捂着自己，德拉科说，“我想我可以坐进去，如果没问题的话。

Giving him a narrow-eyed look, Hermione followed him up the next set of stairs. “You phrased that like it was a choice but I feel like that was you telling me that you’re going to be sitting in.”
赫敏眯起眼睛看了他一眼，跟着他上了下一组楼梯。“你说这就像是一种选择，但我觉得那是你告诉我你会坐下来。”

“You always were quick, Granger.”
“你总是很快的，格兰杰。”

“Who are you doing that for? Me or your father?”
“你这样做是为了谁？我还是你爸爸？

Draco led her down a long corridor on the second landing, looking like he was truly considering his answer. “It’s best for everyone involved, I think. Including me.”
德拉科领着她走过第二个楼梯口的一条长长的走廊，看起来他真的在考虑他的答案。“我认为这对所有相关人员都是最好的。包括我。

They walked side-by-side and, feeling eyes on their progress, Hermione turned her attention to the many portraits that lined the walls. They were silent, watchful and Hermione could see in the expressions of most of them a mixture of curiosity and pre-emptive disdain. That was the Malfoy way, wasn’t it? Scorn first, ask questions later. 
他们并肩走着，赫敏感觉到有人注视着他们的进步，她把注意力转向了墙上的许多肖像。他们沉默，警惕，赫敏能从他们大多数人的表情中看出好奇和先发制人的轻蔑混合在一起。这就是马尔福的方式，不是吗？先轻蔑，后提问。

Hermione was so distracted by a scene of three waifish blonde women being served by a house elf in a white barrister's wig that she didn’t see that Draco had stopped. With a surprised oomph , her head bounced off his back and she stumbled backwards. 
赫敏被三个怀特金发女人被一个戴着白色大律师假发的家养小精灵服务的场景分散了注意力，以至于她没有看到德拉科已经停下来了。带着惊讶的哄抬，她的头从他的背上弹了起来，她踉踉跄跄地向后退去。

Draco turned quickly to give her an impatient look as she smoothed her fringe self-consciously. 
德拉科迅速转过身来，不耐烦地看了她一眼，同时她不自觉地抚平了她的刘海。

“Sorry; wasn’t looking,” she mumbled, dropping her gaze to adjust her bag on her shoulder.
“对不起;没看，“她喃喃自语，垂下目光调整了一下肩上的包。

“Granger,” he said, a pleading quality to his voice that caught Hermione’s interest, “before we go in there just...please remember that my father is an unhappy, angry man who’s been locked up for eight years with a view to being locked up for twelve more.”
“格兰杰，”他说，他的声音里带着恳求的特质引起了赫敏的兴趣，“在我们进去之前......请记住，我父亲是一个不快乐、愤怒的人，他被关了八年，结果又想再被关十二年。

Hermione surveyed the high ceilings and peered down the long stretch of plushly-carpeted corridor to the tall window at its end. Bright daylight spilled inside, making the space pleasantly warm despite its stone walls. 
赫敏打量着高高的天花板，沿着铺着毛绒地毯的长长的走廊往下看，望向走廊尽头的高大窗户。明亮的日光洒进室内，尽管有石墙，但空间却显得宜人温暖。

“Yes,” she said flatly, “this is a veritable prison. I’m sure it’s been a struggle. Spending his weekdays in the west wing and his weekends in the east must get repetitive. Has he considered changing the routine?”
“是的，”她断然地说，“这是一座名副其实的监狱。我敢肯定这是一场斗争。他在西翼度过工作日，在东翼度过周末，这一定是重复的。他有没有考虑过改变这个习惯？

Draco’s head dropped so that his chin was almost on his chest and he squeezed the bridge of his nose. “Granger, I swear to—” He broke off and glared at her, raising a finger in warning. “If you’ve just come here to rile him up then don’t bother going in there. Conversing with him is bad enough these days so please do not make it worse.”
德拉科低着头，下巴几乎贴在胸前，他捏了捏自己的鼻梁。“格兰杰，我发誓——”他打断了她，瞪着她，举起一根手指警告。“如果你只是来这里激怒他，那就别费心进去了。这些天和他交谈已经够糟糕了，所以请不要让事情变得更糟。

Shuffling her feet, Hermione dropped her chin into her neck, feeling an irritating twinge of guilt. “I won’t.” Returning her eyes to his, she saw he was looking at her intently, his arms folded across his chest. “I won’t . 
赫敏拖着脚，把下巴贴进她的脖子里，感到一阵恼人的内疚感。“我不会。”她把目光回到他的身上，看到他正专注地看着她，双臂交叉在胸前。“我不会。

“You better not. Allowing you two to mix is going against all of my instincts as a potion-maker, so don’t make me regret it.” He started walking again, raising a directive hand. “It’s just up here.”
“你最好不要。让你们俩混在一起违背了我作为魔药制作者的所有直觉，所以不要让我后悔。他又开始走路，举起一只指示性的手。“就在这里。”

“Are you still making those potions for St. Mungo’s?” Hermione asked, her attention now firmly fixed on Draco rather than his home. 
“你还在为圣芒戈制作那些魔药吗？”赫敏问道，她的注意力现在牢牢地盯着德拉科，而不是他的家。

“Yes.” He gave her a sidelong smile. “Now that they’ve decided I’m not out to poison innocent civilians and that my dreamless sleep potions are, in fact, flawless, they’ve started requesting more from me. I’ve been working on some blood thinning draughts this week. I don’t think my father is overly enamoured with the idea of his son becoming a freelance potioneer but...he supports it in his own way. And it brings me some degree of peace to know what I’m doing might be helping.”
“是的。”他向她微微一笑。“既然他们已经决定我不是来毒害无辜的平民，而且我的无梦睡眠药水实际上是完美无瑕的，他们开始向我索取更多。这周我一直在研究一些血液稀释剂。我不认为我父亲过分迷恋他的儿子成为一名自由职业者的想法，但是......他以自己的方式支持它。这让我在一定程度上感到平静，因为我知道我正在做的事情可能会有所帮助。

Hermione was about to tell him how pleased she was for him when he stopped again, this time outside a large wooden door with a brightly polished brass handle. Reaching out, he set his hand on it and gave her one last look over his shoulder. 
赫敏正要告诉他她对他有多高兴，这时他又停了下来，这一次是在一扇大木门外面，门上有一个光亮的黄铜把手。他伸出手，把手放在上面，最后回头看了她一眼。

“Remember what I said.”
“记住我说过的话。”

Before she could so much as think of a sarcastic retort, Draco pushed the door to his father’s study open and stepped inside. Hermione followed him over the threshold, her feet moving from the plush carpet of the corridor back to a hard stone floor. 
还没来得及想出一句讽刺的反驳，德拉科推开了他父亲书房的门，走了进去。赫敏跟着他越过门槛，她的脚从走廊的毛绒地毯上移回坚硬的石头地板上。

Looking to her right, Hermione took in a wall of bookcases and, as her eyes travelled left, a gently crackling fireplace with a comfortable-looking deep green leather sofa in front of it. There were glass cabinets dotted around the room, some containing books, others small sculptures or trinkets that she was itching to take a closer look at. All the furniture was a dark mahogany and the walls were panelled to match. It made the room feel smaller than it was but, curiously, not necessarily cosy. Turning her head, her eyes travelled over an ornate persian rug spread over the floor and up the length of a large, shiny desk before they finally landed on the figure of Lucius Malfoy. 
赫敏向右看，看到了一整面墙的书架，当她的目光向左移动时，一个轻轻噼啪作响的壁炉，前面有一张看起来很舒服的深绿色真皮沙发。房间里点缀着玻璃柜，有些里面装着书，有些是她渴望仔细看一眼的小雕塑或小饰品。所有的家具都是深色桃花心木，墙壁也镶板与之相配。它让房间感觉比实际小，但奇怪的是，它不一定舒适。她转过头，目光扫过铺在地板上的华丽波斯地毯，沿着一张闪亮的大桌子的长度向上移动，最后落在了卢修斯·马尔福的身影上。

He was standing behind his desk at the rightmost of two large windows, surveying the view over the grounds to the rear of the manor. From behind he looked much the same as the last time she had seen him at his trial; tall and straight-backed with platinum hair and exquisitely tailored black robes. 
他站在书桌后面两扇大窗户的最右边，打量着庄园后方的庭院景色。从后面看，他和她上次在审判他时看到他时差不多;高大挺拔的背部，铂金色的头发和剪裁精美的黑色长袍。

“There’s a draught,” Lucius said, finally turning around to face them, his attention firmly on his son rather than Hermione. As she inspected him, her first thought was that he looked tired. His face was more drawn than she remembered. But overall, he was not all that different; still cold and intimidating with the vaguest hint of a sneer playing about his lips. 
“喝水了，”卢修斯说，终于转过身来面对他们，他的注意力牢牢地盯着他的儿子，而不是赫敏。当她打量着他时，她首先想到的是他看起来很疲惫。他的脸比她记得的还要紧张。但总的来说，他并没有那么不同;他的嘴唇上还带着一丝隐约的冷笑和威慑。

Hermione was forced to tear her gaze from the older Malfoy by Draco, who, with flapping hands, ushered her out of the doorway and further into the room. As she moved into a new position in the centre of the room, Lucius Malfoy drew his seat out from behind his desk and lowered himself into it. Hermione hovered uncertainly as Draco closed the door, her eyes still darting around to take in some of the finer details of the room. 
赫敏被德拉科强迫将目光从年长的马尔福身上移开，德拉科用拍打着的双手，将她带出门口，进一步进入房间。当她移动到房间中央的新位置时，卢修斯·马尔福从书桌后面拉出他的座位，把自己放进去。当德拉科关上门时，赫敏不确定地盘旋着，她的眼睛仍然四处扫视，以观察房间的一些更精细的细节。

There was such a pervasive air of wealth that Hermione couldn’t help but feel very aware of how faded the denim of her jeans had become. A slight chill in the region of her lower abdomen reminded her of the fact that her t-shirt was just slightly too short in the body after she had shrunk it in the wash. Looking down, she tugged at it, trying to disguise the movement as adjusting the weight of the satchel slung over her shoulder. 
财富的气息无处不在，赫敏不禁非常清楚她的牛仔裤已经变得多么褪色了。她小腹区域略带寒意，这让她想起了这样一个事实，她的 T 恤在洗涤中缩水后，身体略微太短了。她低头拉扯着它，试图将这个动作伪装成在调整挂在她肩上的背包的重量。

Lifting her head, she found Lucius Malfoy comfortably seated behind his desk, simply watching her. Recognising the disdain in his gaze, she straightened up and lifted her chin. Once he could see he had her attention, he let his eyes trail down her body at a leisurely pace, a shadow of a smirk passing over his face. Hermione grit her teeth, determined that she could dampen the heat rising in her cheeks through sheer force of will. 
她抬起头，发现卢修斯·马尔福舒适地坐在他的办公桌后面，只是看着她。察觉到他目光中的轻蔑，她直起身来，抬起下巴。一旦他看到他引起了她的注意，他就让他的眼睛悠闲地沿着她的身体滑下，一丝得意的笑容在他的脸上掠过。赫敏咬紧牙关，决心要靠纯粹的意志力来抑制脸颊上升的热度。

It took Draco clearing his throat to regain her attention. Glancing his way, she saw him looking apprehensively between them. “You can sit down, Granger.” He gestured to a single seat in front of his father’s desk. 
德拉科清了清嗓子才重新引起了她的注意。她瞥了他一眼，看到他忧心忡忡地看着他们。“你可以坐下，格兰杰。”他指了指他父亲办公桌前的一个座位。

Approaching the desk slowly, determinedly avoiding Lucius Malfoy’s supercilious stare, Hermione slid her bag from her shoulder and onto the floor. Lowering herself into the seat, she leaned back and placed her hands on its arms. Finding that unnatural, she crossed them. Then, worrying that appeared too defensive, she uncrossed them and placed them in her lap, her fingers fidgeting between her thighs. 
赫敏慢慢地走近桌子，坚决避开卢修斯·马尔福那浮夸的目光，把她的包从肩膀上滑到地板上。她把自己放到座位上，向后靠，双手放在它的手臂上。她觉得这很不自然，于是穿过了他们。然后，她担心这显得太防卫了，于是她解开了它们，把它们放在她的腿上，她的手指在她的大腿之间坐立不安。

There wasn’t a seat for Draco, she noted, but he didn’t appear concerned. Instead, he moved behind his father’s desk and leaned on the sill of the left window, crossing his arms. Over his shoulder, Hermione glimpsed a clear view of the manor’s verdant grounds and a blue, sunny sky. The sun’s rays didn’t seem to be strong enough, or brave enough, to shine directly into the office. 
她注意到，德拉科没有座位，但他似乎并不关心。相反，他走到父亲的书桌后面，靠在左边窗户的窗台上，交叉着双臂。赫敏越过肩膀，清晰地瞥见了庄园翠绿的地面和湛蓝、阳光明媚的天空。太阳的光线似乎不够强烈，也不够勇敢，无法直接照进办公室。

“Well, Miss Granger,” Lucius Malfoy said, addressing her at last, “your persistence has paid off. You have your meeting. Make your case.”
“嗯，格兰杰小姐，”卢修斯·马尔福终于对她说，“你的坚持得到了回报。您有自己的会议。请说明你的理由。

Hermione glanced up at Draco and then looked at Lucius. Up close, she could see the tiredness more clearly. He had always been pale but there was a slight blue-greyness under his eyes that reminded her of an ink smudge.  
赫敏抬头看了一眼德拉科，然后看了看卢修斯。近距离看，她能更清楚地看到疲惫。他一直都是苍白的，但他的眼睛下面有一点蓝灰色，让她想起了墨水的污迹。

“Thank you for taking the time to see me, Mr Malfoy”, Hermione said with a careful politeness that earned her a nod of approval from Draco. It was hard not to roll her eyes. “Especially in your private study.”
“谢谢你花时间来看我，马尔福先生，”赫敏小心翼翼地礼貌地说，这为她赢得了德拉科的认可点头。她很难不翻白眼。“尤其是在你的私人书房里。”

“Draco insisted on the location,” Lucius drawled. “I favoured the drawing room.”
“德拉科坚持要这个位置，”卢修斯抽搐着。“我喜欢客厅。”

Hermione stiffened and, over Lucius’ shoulder, Draco closed his eyes and dropped his head back against the window with a faint thud . Swallowing a lump in her throat, Hermione looked directly into Lucius Malfoy’s cold, grey eyes and saw they were combing her face for a reaction. 
赫敏身体僵硬，越过卢修斯的肩膀，德拉科闭上了眼睛，把头靠在窗户上，发出微弱的砰砰声。赫敏咽下了喉咙里的一团东西，直视着卢修斯·马尔福冰冷、灰色的眼睛，发现它们正在梳理她的脸，寻找反应。

He’s an unhappy, angry man. He’s an unhappy, angry man , a voice that sounded oddly like Draco’s repeated in her head. He’s a fucking arsehole, is what he is , snapped a voice that sounded much more like her own. 
他是一个不快乐、愤怒的人。他是一个不快乐、愤怒的男人，这个声音听起来很奇怪，就像德拉科在她脑海中重复的声音一样。 他妈是个混蛋，他就是这个屁眼，吼道一声，听起来更像她自己的声音。

“I think that would have lacked subtlety,” Hermione replied with a tight smile. “You should listen to your son more.”
“我觉得那会不够微妙，”赫敏带着紧绷的笑容回答。“你应该多听你儿子的话。”

Other than a brief flare of his nostrils, Lucius’ face remained impassive. Behind him, Draco shook his head, his lips moving in what Hermione suspected was a silent prayer. 
除了鼻孔短暂的张开外，卢修斯的脸上仍然无动于衷。在他身后，德拉科摇了摇头，他的嘴唇动了动，赫敏怀疑这是在无声的祈祷。

“I don’t know how much Draco has told you, Mr Malfoy,” Hermione continued, her voice gaining confidence, “but over the past few weeks I have been interviewing him for a project I’m working on.” She paused briefly to allow him space to speak but he didn’t. He merely blinked once, slowly, to indicate that he had heard her. “It’s an oral history. Possibly, you’ve encountered something similar before but it’s essentially a method of recording a historical period through interviews with people directly involved in the events.”
“我不知道德拉科跟你说了多少，马尔福先生，”赫敏继续说，她的声音越来越自信，“但在过去的几周里，我一直在为我正在做的一个项目采访他。她停顿了一会儿，让他有空间说话，但他没有。他只是缓缓地眨了眨眼，表示他听到了她的声音。“这是一段口述历史。也许，你以前也遇到过类似的事情，但它本质上是一种通过采访直接参与事件的人来记录历史时期的方法。

Lucius remained silent and Hermione glanced over his shoulder at Draco who nodded encouragingly. 
卢修斯保持沉默，赫敏回头看了一眼德拉科，德拉科鼓励地点了点头。

“I want to collect a variety of perspectives from those who fought in the war. Regardless of the side they were on. I think it might be interesting to dig into...into the personal to broaden our understanding of wider events. And I think it’s important to draw from as wide a range of sources as possible.”
“我想从那些参加过战争的人那里收集各种观点。无论他们站在哪一边。我认为深入研究可能会很有趣......进入个人层面，以拓宽我们对更广泛事件的理解。我认为从尽可能广泛的来源中提取信息很重要。

“And you want my perspective,” Lucius finally said, raising a hand to his chest.
“而且你想要我的观点，”卢修斯终于说，将一只手举到他的胸前。

“I do,” Hermione said earnestly, then hesitated. “There are very few...you see, I haven’t spoken to…it’s quite difficult to—”
“我愿意，”赫敏认真地说，然后犹豫了。“很少有......你看，我还没跟我说过话......这真是个难事——”

“Most former Death Eaters are either dead or imprisoned in Azkaban,” he interrupted, pressing his lips into a thin line. “You have not been gifted with grace or delicacy, Miss Granger. Just be direct.”
“大多数前食死徒要么死了，要么被囚禁在阿兹卡班，”他打断了他，把嘴唇抿成一条细线。“你没有被赋予优雅或细腻的天赋，格兰杰小姐。直接点。

“Alright,” she said with a small shrug. “Your story is very different from the others I’ve recorded thus far. It would give my project greater breadth as well as depth and...well, I want it.”
“好吧，”她耸耸肩说。“你的故事与我迄今为止记录的其他人非常不同。它将为我的项目提供更大的广度和深度，并且......嗯，我想要它。

“You... want it.” Lucius lingered on the word ‘want’, over-enunciating the ‘t’. “Has anyone ever told you that you’re very entitled for a—”
“你......想要它。卢修斯在“想要”这个词上徘徊不前，把“t”念得太过分了。“有没有人告诉你，你非常有资格得到——”

Draco loudly cleared throat and Lucius halted himself, fractionally turning his head to glance over his shoulder. With a soft sigh, he looked back at Hermione with an unpleasant smile that made his eyes crinkle at the corners.
德拉科大声清了清嗓子，卢修斯停了下来，微微转过头来瞥了一眼他的肩膀。轻轻叹了口气，他回头看着赫敏，脸上露出一个令人不快的笑容，让他的眼角皱了起来。

“For such a young...woman.”
“对于这么年轻的......女人。

“You strike me as a man who knows all about entitlement so perhaps you can sympathise,” Hermione said, crossing her legs and leaning her elbows on the arms of the chair.  
“你觉得我是一个对权利了如指掌的人，所以也许你可以同情，”赫敏说，交叉着双腿，胳膊肘靠在椅子的扶手上。

Draco’s eyes widened in warning and Hermione huffed a sigh, rubbing at her temple with her forefinger. 
德拉科警告地睁大了眼睛，赫敏叹了口气，用食指揉了揉她的太阳穴。

“I’m not really entitled if I’m willing to offer you something for your cooperation, am I, Mr Malfoy?”
“如果我愿意为你提供一些合作，我真的没有资格，对吧，马尔福先生？”

At that, Lucius sat up infinitesimally straighter—an achievement given how straight he had been sitting before—and clasped his hands in front of him. 
听到这话，卢修斯坐直了——考虑到他以前坐得那么直，这已经是一个了不起的成就——并双手紧握在身前。

“Now we get to it. You’ve made a bold offer, Miss Granger. I wouldn’t have thought you, of all people, would be willing to see me back in the wizarding world, let alone with a wand in my hand.”
“现在我们开始了。你提出了一个大胆的提议，格兰杰小姐。我不会想到你，在所有的人中，会愿意看到我回到魔法世界，更不用说我手里拿着魔杖了。

“To manage your expectations, Mr Malfoy, I’m not sure I’d be able to convince Kingsley to lift your house arrest entirely. Perhaps a reduction in the sentence.”
“为了控制你的期望，马尔福先生，我不确定我能否说服金斯莱完全解除你的软禁。也许减刑。

Lucius’ eyes narrowed and Hermione saw him flex his fingers against his knuckles. “You appear to be working on suppositions.”
卢修斯眯起眼睛，赫敏看到他用手指抵住自己的指关节。“你似乎在做假设。”

“Well,” Hermione rubbed the back of her neck and uncrossed her legs, “my meeting with Kingsley isn’t actually taking place until tomorrow so I can’t give you an exact—”
“嗯，”赫敏揉了揉她的后颈，解开了她的双腿，“我和金斯莱的会面要到明天才能真正进行，所以我不能给你一个确切的——”

“You have not yet spoken to the Minister about the matter?” Lucius’ voice was quiet but there was something in it that made the hair on Hermione’s forearms stand to attention.
“你还没有和部长谈过这件事吗？”卢修斯的声音很平静，但其中有某种东西让赫敏前臂上的汗毛引起了注意。

“Well, no, but—”
“嗯，不，但是——”

“So you have come to my home, taken time out of my day, to offer me things that you have no business offering. Is that what you’re telling me?”
“所以你来到我家，抽出我一天的时间，为我提供你没有业务提供的东西。你是这么告诉我的吗？

“I had to know if you’d be interested before going to him,” Hermione explained hurriedly. “He’s rather busy, you know.”
“在去找他之前，我得知道你是否感兴趣，”赫敏急忙解释道。“他挺忙的，你知道的。”

“You are dealing in mere fantasies ,” Lucius hissed.  
“你只是在做幻想，”卢修斯嘶吼道。

“Father,” Draco interrupted, half rising to his feet, “for argument’s sake let’s just work on the assumption that Granger will get Shacklebolt on board tomorrow.” 
“爸爸，”德拉科打断了他，半站起来，“为了争论，我们就假设格兰杰明天会让沙克尔博特上船吧。

A muscle jumped in Lucius’ jaw but he rolled back his shoulders. “Continue,” he said to Hermione. Cautiously, his eyes on his father’s back, Draco lowered himself back onto the window sill. 
Lucius 的下巴上跳了起来，但他还是缩了回肩膀。“继续，”他对赫敏说。Draco小心翼翼地盯着他父亲的背，把自己放回窗台上。

“If you do agree to work with me,  Mr Malfoy, I’d like to meet with you once a week for interviews. Each session would last for one hour at least and...” Hermione trailed off to reach down into her bag, withdrawing her miniature gramophone and placing it on the desk. Lucius leaned back from it, a wary look on his face. “And I’ll be using this,” Hermione continued, “to record our conversations.”
“如果你同意和我一起工作，马尔福先生，我想每周和你见面一次面谈。每次会议至少持续一个小时，而且......”赫敏慢下脚步，把手伸进她的包里，掏出她的微型留声机，放在桌子上。卢修斯向后靠去，脸上露出警惕的表情。“我会用这个，”赫敏继续说，“来记录我们的对话。

“And what is this ?”
“这是什么？”

“It’s a Weasley’s Wizard’s Wheezebox. I use it to—”
“这是韦斯莱巫师的喘息盒。我用它来——”

“Absolutely not.” 
“绝对不是。”

“Mr Malfoy, it’s perfectly reliable. I also use a Quick Quotes Quill for a back-up transcript but having the physical recordings is important for revisiting tone.”
“马尔福先生，这是完全可靠的。我还使用 Quick Quotes Quill 作为备份成绩单，但拥有物理录音对于重新审视音调很重要。

“A Quick Quotes Quill I can accept but I will not allow this...Weasley contraption to take my voice.”
“我可以接受 Quick Quotes Quill，但我不会允许这样......韦斯莱的玩意儿来夺走我的声音。

“It doesn’t quite work like…” Hermione trailed off and looked appealingly at Draco. “I know it’s a Weasley device but Muggle voice recorders won’t…and you wouldn’t even want a Muggle voice recorder.”
“这不太像......”赫敏停下脚步，诱人地看着德拉科。“我知道这是个韦斯莱的设备，但麻瓜的录音机不会......你甚至不想要一个麻瓜录音机。

“Father, it’s perfectly safe,” Draco said softly. “You’ll forget it’s there. It just makes...a copy of your voice. It’s less invasive than a Pensieve.”
“爸爸，这里绝对安全，”德拉科轻声说。“你会忘记它在那里。它只是让......您的声音副本。它的侵入性比 Pensieve 小。

“Quick Quotes Quills have also been known to malfunction on occasion,” Hermione added, struck by inspiration. “Particularly under the strain of frequent use. I wouldn't want to run the risk of misquoting you, Mr Malfoy.”
“众所周知，快速报价羽毛笔偶尔也会出现故障，”赫敏补充道，被灵感所震撼。“尤其是在频繁使用的压力下。我可不想冒着引用你错误的风险，马尔福先生。

Lucius pursed his lips, eyeing the compact device with distrust. “Remove it,” he said. Hermione snatched it from the table and dropped it into her bag. He’d agree to it.
卢修斯抿起嘴唇，不信任地盯着这个紧凑的设备。“把它拿掉，”他说。赫敏从桌子上抓起它，放进了她的包里。他会同意的。

“And once you have what you’re looking for, Miss Granger,” Lucius said, tilting his head, “once you have my story , as you say, what do you intend to do with it?”
“一旦你找到了你要找的东西，格兰杰小姐，”卢修斯歪着头说，“一旦你有了我的故事，就像你说的，你打算怎么处理它？

“I’m hoping to transcribe the relevant sections of the interviews and turn them into a book. But,” Hermione sped up, seeing Lucius open his mouth to argue, “everything will be exactly your words. There’ll be some description and editing down on my part but I can promise there will be absolutely no narrative interventions or inventions.”
“我希望将采访的相关部分转录下来，并将它们写成一本书。但是，“赫敏加快了速度，看到卢修斯张开嘴争辩，”一切都会完全按照你的话说。我会有一些描述和编辑，但我可以保证绝对不会有叙事干预或发明。

“I would reserve my right not to tell you everything, Miss Granger.”
“我保留不告诉你一切的权利，格兰杰小姐。”

“Absolutely,” Hermione agreed with an emphatic nod. “I would just ask that what you do tell me, you tell me truthfully.”
“当然，”赫敏坚定地点点头同意。“我只想问你告诉我的事情，你要如实告诉我。”

Lucius gave her a sour look. “I’ll want to see it before it’s published.”
卢修斯酸溜溜地瞪了她一眼。“我想在它发布之前看到它。”

“Of course.”
“当然。”

“And if I am unhappy, I want to be able to withdraw my contribution.”
“如果我不满意，我希望能够撤回我的贡献。”

Hermione opened and closed her mouth, her face screwing up as she considered how Lucius Malfoy might abuse such an agreement. “Well, I’m not sure that’s entirely…” Seeing the uncompromising set of his jaw, Hermione relented somewhat. “I am willing to enter discussions should that happen. But I don’t think you’ll be unhappy.”
赫敏张开又闭上了嘴，她的脸在想卢修斯·马尔福怎么会滥用这样的协议。“嗯，我不确定这完全是......”看到他毫不妥协的下巴，赫敏稍微软化了一点。“如果发生这种情况，我愿意参与讨论。但我认为你不会不高兴。

On seeing a doubtful expression pass over his face, Hermione sat forward. “I’m not looking to harm you or your reputation Mr Malfoy. How you are presented will be entirely down to how you present yourself . It’s in your control.”
赫敏看到脸上掠过疑惑的表情，坐了起来。“我不想伤害你或你的名声，马尔福先生。你如何被展示将完全取决于你如何展示自己。这在你的控制之下。

Lucius unclasped his hands and leaned back in his seat, one elbow balanced on the arm. Running the side of his forefinger below his lower lip, he watched Hermione carefully. Remembering how Harry had always said Dumbledore made him feel like he was being x-rayed, she rather felt that she was experiencing the same thing.
卢修斯松开双手，向后靠在座位上，一只手肘平衡在手臂上。他用食指滑到下唇下面，仔细地看着赫敏。想起哈利总是说邓布利多让他觉得自己像在接受X光检查，她宁愿觉得自己也在经历同样的事情。

“I am willing to provisionally agree to what you’ve offered,” Lucius said eventually, lowering his hand from his face. “This is entirely dependent on the results of your meeting with the Minister. You may return at the same time next week if, and only if, you have secured something from him for me.”
“我愿意暂时同意你的提议，”卢修斯最终说，把手从他的脸上放下来。“这完全取决于你与部长的会议结果。你可以下周的同一时间回来，当且仅当你为我从他那里得到了一些东西。

Hermione couldn’t help the wide grin that spread over her face and she immediately looked from Lucius to Draco, who had raised his head in surprise. Meeting her eyes, he shrugged.
赫敏忍不住脸上绽放出灿烂的笑容，她立即把目光从卢修斯身上移开，看向德拉科，德拉科惊讶地抬起了头。对上她的眼睛，他耸了耸肩。

“Thank you, Mr Malfoy. I mean it, you really won’t be unhappy.” Hermione rose from her seat, and hauled her satchel onto her shoulder, bouncing on the balls of her feet. “You might even enjoy it.”
“谢谢你，马尔福先生。我是认真的，你真的不会不高兴的。赫敏从座位上站起来，把她的书包拽到肩上，在她的脚掌上弹跳。“你甚至可能会喜欢它。”

With an expression that made Hermione mightily glad he could no longer perform magic, Lucius Malfoy rose from his own chair to look down his nose at her. “I cannot even begin to express to you how much I doubt that, Miss Granger. Please leave.”
卢修斯·马尔福的表情让赫敏非常高兴他不能再施展魔法了，他从自己的椅子上站起来，低头看着她。“我什至无法向你表达我有多么怀疑这一点，格兰杰小姐。请离开。

Not willing to allow him to sour her victory, Hermione turned lightly on her heel and made for the door, Draco following her. 
赫敏不愿意让他破坏她的胜利，她轻轻地转过身来，向门口走去，德拉科跟在她后面。

“Remember what I said,” Lucius said to her back as Draco opened the door for them. “Do not bother coming back if your meeting with the Minister for Magic bears no fruit.”
“记住我说过的话，”卢修斯在德拉科为他们开门时对她的背影说。“如果你和魔法部长的会面没有结果，就别费心回来了。”

Hermione felt far lighter as she strolled down the corridors of Malfoy Manor towards the exit. Draco walked by her side but she could sense that he was more subdued.
赫敏沿着马尔福庄园的走廊向出口走去，感觉轻松多了。德拉科走在她身边，但她能感觉到他更加低调了。

“Granger, do you really think Shacklebolt will be willing to give you a hand with this?”
“格兰杰，你真的觉得沙克尔会愿意帮你一把吗？”

“I can only try,” Hermione said. “I’m hoping to frame it that Kingsley would be rewarding your father for post-war cooperation and contribution to a worthy record, rather than that he would be incentivising him to take part in the first place, if that makes sense.”
“我只能试试，”赫敏说。“我希望将金斯利描述为金斯利会奖励你父亲在战后的合作和对有价值的记录的贡献，而不是他首先会激励他参加，如果这是有道理的。”

Draco looked perturbed. “I think father might be expecting the latter. He wants assurances.”
德拉科看起来很不安。“我想爸爸可能期待的是后者。他想要保证。

Hermione pulled her lower lip between her teeth and chewed thoughtfully. “I’m going to try my best.”
赫敏把下唇拉到牙齿之间，若有所思地咀嚼着。“我会尽力而为。”

When they reached the door, Draco opened the door for Hermione and stepped back to allow her to exit into the sun. “Er, Granger,” he said as she stepped onto the front step, “before you go: do you have any more of that lemon cake?”
当他们走到门口时，德拉科为赫敏开了门，然后退后一步，让她走出去，让她走出去，沐浴在阳光下。“呃，格兰杰，”当她走上前面的台阶时，他说，“在你走之前，你还有那个柠檬蛋糕吗？

“Ah, so it went down well, did it?” Hermione asked with a knowing smile.
“啊，所以进展顺利，是吗？”赫敏带着会心的微笑问道。

“You have no idea.” Hermione was amused to see that Draco looked mildly distressed. “I’m afraid of what you’ve started. Cauldron Cakes are no longer good enough.”
“你不知道。”赫敏看到德拉科看起来有点痛苦，感到很有趣。“我害怕你开始的事情。Cauldron Cakes 已经不够好了。

“I’ll bring some with me next week,” she said soothingly. “I promise.”
“我下周会带一些，”她安慰地说。“我保证。”

Chapter 5
第 5 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione attends her meeting with Kingsley
赫敏参加了她与金斯利的会议

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thanks for the continued enthusiasm all! You're all wonderful x
感谢大家一直以来的热情！你们都很棒 x

April 28th
4月28日

Hermione tried to ignore the curious glances she received from Ministry workers as she rode the lift to her meeting with Kingsley. 
赫敏试图无视她在乘坐电梯去见金斯莱时从魔法部工作人员那里收到的好奇目光。

"Level Five, Department of International Magical Co-operation, incorporating the International Magical Trading Standards Body, the International Magical Office of Law and the International Confederation of Wizards, British Seats." 
“第五层，国际魔法合作部，包括国际魔法贸易标准机构、国际魔法法律办公室和国际巫师联合会，英国席位。”

Hermione squeezed herself into the back of the lift as it hurtled along, folding her body into the corner. After leaving the Ministry on sabbatical, she did her best to avoid it. Whenever Harry asked her to meet for lunch, she would insist that he meet her outside of the building. It just wasn’t worth the curious questions from her former—technically, still, she supposed—co-workers. 
赫敏挤进电梯的后部，电梯飞驰着，把身体缩进了角落里。在休假离开魔法部后，她尽力避免它。每当哈利约她见面吃午饭时，她都会坚持让他在大楼外见她。她只是不值得从她的前同事那里提出好奇的问题——从技术上讲，她猜还是这样。

None of them seemed quite able to grasp why Hermione Granger, one of the most promising and fastest risers the Ministry had seen in nearly a decade, would suddenly duck out after five years of service to spend all of her time interviewing people about something that had already happened. 
他们似乎都不太明白为什么赫敏·格兰杰，魔法部近十年来见过的最有前途、最迅速崛起的人之一，会在服务五年后突然躲出来，把所有的时间都花在采访人们已经发生的事情上。

When she would explain, always wearing an overly bright smile, that it was only a sabbatical and that she’d be back eventually, they’d offer her pitying smiles that she interpreted as saying, ‘but it’s not just a sabbatical, is it, dear? All got a bit much for you, didn’t it?’ She hated it. One day she knew she was going to crack and tell someone the truth. 
当她总是带着过于灿烂的笑容解释说，这只是一次休假，她最终会回来时，他们会向她露出可怜的微笑，她把这些笑容解释为，“但这不仅仅是一次休假，是吗，亲爱的？对你来说，一切都有点多了，不是吗？她讨厌它。有一天，她知道她会崩溃并告诉别人真相。

“Well, yes, as a matter of fact going straight from Hogwarts, through the war and then into the Ministry made me feel like I was hurtling along a never-ending mineshaft without a single second to take a breath. Sometimes I would wake in the night, drenched in cold sweat, and I’d be too afraid to look at my hands, convinced that I’d find my skin had sagged and aged because I’d just let my life pass me by in a red-taped blur of bureaucracy and boredom. Working in a world I barely understood anymore with people who didn’t want to improve things if it minorly inconvenienced or didn’t explicitly benefit them was eating me up from the inside out." 
“嗯，是的，事实上，直接从霍格沃茨出发，经历战争，然后进入魔法部，让我觉得自己就像在一个永无止境的矿井上飞驰，没有一秒钟的喘息时间。有时我会在夜里醒来，浑身冒冷汗，我不敢看自己的手，确信我会发现我的皮肤已经下垂和衰老，因为我只是让我的生活在官僚主义和无聊的红色胶带模糊中从我身边过去。在一个我几乎不再理解的世界里工作，与那些不想改善事情的人一起工作，如果它只是轻微的不便或没有明确地使他们受益，这让我从内到外都被吞噬了。

Hermione gave a self-satisfied little snort at the thought of such an outburst and saw the man beside her take two nervous steps towards the opposite side of the lift. It was possible her face was showing the generally malevolent spirit of her thoughts.
赫敏一想到这样的爆发，就得意地哼了一声，看到她身边的男人紧张地向电梯的另一边走了两步。她的脸上可能流露出她思想中普遍的恶毒。

"Level Two, Department of Magical Law Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services." 
“第二层，魔法执法部，包括不当使用魔法办公室、傲罗总部和威森加摩管理服务。”

When the lift stopped, the anxious little man cleared out of the lift and Hermione realised with no small amount of relief that she was alone. No one else entered the lift, except for a small purple paper aeroplane stamped with the Ministry seal. It buzzed irritatingly around Hermione’s head as the lift jolted to life again. 
当电梯停下来时，那个焦急的小个子男人从电梯里走了出来，赫敏松了一口气，意识到她一个人。没有其他人进入电梯，除了一架盖有魔法部印章的紫色小纸飞机。它在赫敏的头上发出恼人的嗡嗡声，电梯再次颠簸起来。

"Level One, Minister for Magic and support staff, incorporating the Office of the Minister for Magic, the Office of the Advisor to the Minister for Magic, the Office of the Senior Undersecretary to the Minister for Magic, the Office of the Junior Assistant to the Minister for Magic.” 
“一级，魔法部长和支持人员，包括魔法部长办公室、魔法部长顾问办公室、魔法部长高级副秘书办公室、魔法部长初级助理办公室。”

Squaring her shoulders, Hermione stepped into the quiet corridors surrounding the Minister for Magic’s office. Shortly before her departure from the Ministry, she had gotten used to treading the path to Kingsley’s office. They had always gotten on well and, as Hermione moved up in the Department for the Regulation of Magical Creatures, she had found Kingsley calling on her an increasing amount. Sometimes it was for her opinion, sometimes it was to ask her to do something he wouldn’t entrust to anyone else, and sometimes it was just for a cup of tea. As the grind of the Ministry had become more and more wearing on her, Hermione had found his summons to be small bright spots in otherwise grey weeks. 
赫敏挺直肩膀，走进了魔法部长办公室周围安静的走廊。在她离开魔法部前不久，她已经习惯了踏上通往金斯莱办公室的小路。他们一直相处得很好，随着赫敏在魔法生物监管部的升职，她发现金斯莱越来越多地打电话给她。有时是为了她的意见，有时是让她做一些他不会托付给别人的事情，有时只是为了喝杯茶。随着魔法部的辛苦对她来说越来越疲惫，赫敏发现他的召唤在原本灰暗的几周里只是小亮点。

A curly-haired young man sat at a desk outside the Minister’s office and he looked up as he heard Hermione approach. How he managed that given the degree to which the thick carpets on Level One absorbed sound, she wasn’t sure. 
一个卷发的年轻人坐在部长办公室外的桌子旁，他抬起头来，听到赫敏走近。考虑到一楼厚厚的地毯吸收声音的程度，他是怎么做到的，她不确定。

“Miss Granger,” the young man greeted her with a smile. “Go right in, the Minister is expecting you.”
“格兰杰小姐，”年轻人微笑着向她打招呼。“快进去，部长在等你。”

With a grateful nod, Hermione strode towards Kingsely’s door, giving her customary little knock of warning before pushing it open. Kingsley was seated behind his desk and Hermione was pleased to see that, rather than the usual piles of parchment in front of him, he had made room for a small tea tray. 
赫敏感激地点了点头，大步走向金斯利的门，在推开门之前，她习惯性地轻轻敲了敲门。金斯莱坐在他的书桌后面，赫敏很高兴地看到，他面前没有通常的羊皮纸堆，而是为一个小茶盘腾出了空间。

“Hermione,” he stood, his deep, warm voice almost an embrace. “Please, come in.”
“赫敏，”他站起来，他低沉、温暖的声音几乎是一个拥抱。“请进来。”

Approaching the desk, Hermione reached across to shake Kingsley’s hand and lowered herself into a chair in front of him. He waited until she was fully seated before following suit and then reached out to begin preparing her tea.
走近桌子，赫敏伸手与金斯莱握手，然后坐在他面前的椅子上。他等到她完全坐下后才效仿，然后伸手开始为她准备茶。

“I can’t believe you still remember how I like my tea,” Hermione said, her eyebrows raised.
“我不敢相信你还记得我有多喜欢我的茶，”赫敏说，她的眉毛扬起。

“I’ve found learning someone’s tea preference is one of those small things that makes a striking impression in a meeting,” Kingsley said, glancing up at her with a sly smile as he stirred a teaspoon of honey into her mug before adding a small splash of milk. “It gives the impression of humbleness.”
“我发现了解某人的茶偏好是在会议中给人留下深刻印象的小事之一，”金斯利说，他狡猾地笑着抬头看了她一眼，同时将一茶匙蜂蜜搅拌到她的杯子里，然后加入一小滴牛奶。“它给人的印象是谦逊。”

“God, you’re good,” she muttered with a shake of her head.
“上帝，你很好，”她摇着头咕哝道。

“I have to be,” Kingsley said, passing her tea across the table and waving away her thanks. “Remembering your tea preference was, admittedly, quite a feat; it’s been several months since I last saw you, Hermione.”
“我必须这样，”金斯利说，一边把茶递过桌子，挥手道谢。“诚然，记住你对茶的偏好是一件了不起的事情;我上次见到你已经好几个月了，赫敏。

Hermione didn’t miss the admonishment in his tone and cringed into her cup. “I’m sorry, Kingsley. I’ve just been busy with my interviews and writing. It’s not because I don’t want to see you. You’re busier than me, anyway. It’s not like you have time to sit with former employees to talk about nothing.”
赫敏没有错过他语气中的告诫，畏缩地坐在她的杯子里。“对不起，金斯利。我只是忙于我的采访和写作。不是因为我不想见你。反正你比我还忙。你没有时间与前雇员坐在一起无所事事。

Kingsley lifted his own tea—five sugars—to his lips and took a long drink, watching her over the rim. “I don’t consider you a former employee, Hermione,” he corrected as he set his cup down. “You’re on sabbatical, remember? How long has that been now?”
金斯莱把自己的茶——五颗糖——举到嘴边，喝了一大口，一边看着她。“我不认为你是前雇员，赫敏，”他放下杯子纠正道。“你正在休假，记得吗？现在已经有多久了？

“Just short of two years,” Hermione said, painfully aware that he’d agreed to place her on half-pay for two years, after which they’d discuss her options.
“就短两年，”赫敏说，痛苦地意识到他已经同意让她半薪两年，之后他们会讨论她的选择。

“And how are you faring?”
“那你怎么样了？”

“I’m well,” Hermione said slowly, her finger toying with the handle of her cup. “My oral history is coming along. I’ve completed the majority of my interviews and I’m making good progress in working them into chapters.”
“我没事，”赫敏缓缓地说，她的手指玩弄着她的杯柄。“我的口述历史正在发展。我已经完成了大部分采访，并且在将它们分成章节方面取得了良好的进展。

“Ah,” Kingsley said, flashing her a disappointed smile. “I confess, I was rather hoping you were coming here to tell me you wish to return to your post.”
“啊，”金斯利说，向她露出一个失望的笑容。“我承认，我倒是希望你来这里告诉我，你想回到你的岗位上来。”

An anxious twist in Hermione’s stomach made her shift in her seat and drop her gaze. “Not yet, Kingsley. I’m sorry. I have one last source that I’m keenly pursuing.”
赫敏的肚子焦急地扭动着，让她在座位上动了动，垂下了目光。“还没，金斯利。对不起。我还有最后一个来源，我正在努力寻找。

“Just one?” Kingsley asked, nodding his head as though pleased by the news. “You make it sound as though they are fleeing you.”
“就一个？”金斯利问道，点点头，似乎对这个消息感到高兴。“你让它听起来好像他们正在逃离你。”

“Well, they’re not the most eager of participants,” Hermione said with a smile that was closer to a grimace. “It’s Lucius Malfoy, you see.”
“嗯，他们不是最热心的参与者，”赫敏说，笑容更接近于做鬼脸。“你看，是卢修斯·马尔福。”

Kingsley’s head ceased nodding and he leaned back slowly in his chair to assess Hermione. Raising his hand to his ear, he began fiddling with his earring in the way that he always did when he was thinking. 
金斯莱的头不再点头，他慢慢地靠在椅子上，打量着赫敏。他把手举到耳边，开始摆弄他的耳环，就像他思考时一样。

“An unexpected choice.”
“一个出乎意料的选择。”

“I interviewed his son, Draco,” Hermione explained, subtly sliding her hands from the desk to wipe the clamminess that was developing on them on her jeans. “It seemed like a natural next step.”
“我采访了他的儿子，德拉科，”赫敏解释道，巧妙地将手从桌子上滑开，擦去牛仔裤上形成的湿漉漉的。“这似乎是自然而然的下一步。”

“But he’s resistant?”
“但他有抵抗力吗？”

“Yes,” Hermione said with a sigh. “That’s actually…Kingsley, I was actually hoping you might be able to help me with that.”
“是的，”赫敏叹了口气说。“那实际上是......金斯利，我其实希望你能帮我解决这个问题。

“I see,” Kingsley said slowly, his finger running around the shell of his ear. “And how could I help?”
“我明白了，”金斯利缓缓地说，他的手指在他的耳壳上滑过。“那我能帮什么忙呢？”

“Well,” Hermione reached up to grip her cup with both hands, turning it between them. “I know he’ll do it if I can offer him something that might tempt him.” Kingsley’s eyebrows were slowly rising up his forehead. “A little reward for being good and contributing to a collaborative post-war project, you know.”
“嗯，”赫敏伸手用双手握住她的杯子，在他们之间转动。“我知道如果我能给他一些可能诱惑他的东西，他会这样做的。”金斯莱的眉毛缓缓地扬起了他的额头。“你知道的，对表现优秀并为战后合作项目做出贡献的一点奖励。”

“I’m afraid I don’t see how that requires me, Hermione.”
“恐怕我看不出这需要我什么，赫敏。”

He was going to draw it out of her, Hermione thought with a sharp but completely internal tut . Kingsley was one of the most intelligent men she knew; there was no way he hadn’t figured out what she was hinting at.
他要从她身上抽出来，赫敏尖锐但完全在内心的啧啧称奇。金斯利是她认识的最聪明的人之一;他不可能不知道她在暗示什么。

“I was thinking you might help me secure something worth offering.” Hermione knew her tone was so determinedly casual it came all the way back around to sounding suspect but she had started and didn’t see the point in stopping. “I’m just throwing some ideas off the top of my head here: what if we returned his wand to him? Or maybe even reduced his total sentence?”
“我在想你可能会帮我找到一些值得奉献的东西。”赫敏知道她的语气是如此的随意，以至于听起来又回到了可疑的程度，但她已经开始了，她看不出停下来有什么意义。“我只是在这里抛出一些想法：如果我们把他的魔杖还给他呢？或者甚至可能减轻他的总刑期？

Seeing that Kingsley’s raised eyebrows were not coming down and were actually, if at all possible, climbing higher, Hermione quickly added, “I’m not saying by a huge amount but maybe just... a couple...of years?” Hermione trailed off when she realised that Kingsley was not being swept along by her ideas.
看到金斯莱扬起的眉毛并没有落下，而且实际上，如果可能的话，她爬得更高了，赫敏赶紧补充道，“我不是说很多，但也许只是......一对......几年？当赫敏意识到金斯莱并没有被她的想法所左右时，她停下了脚步。

“As I said, Hermione,” Kingsley rubbed his forehead, looking perturbed, “I was rather hoping you were coming here to tell me you wanted to return to the Ministry. I would like to see you back here, making a difference.”
“就像我说的，赫敏，”金斯莱揉了揉他的额头，看起来有些不安，“我真希望你来这里告诉我你想回到魔法部。我希望看到你回到这里，有所作为。

Hermione heard the subtle slight in his words and lifted her tea to take a tight-lipped sip in an effort to compose herself. There was no point in snapping at Kingsley; what he said didn’t come from a bad place and she would only feel terrible in the aftermath.
赫敏听出了他话语中微妙的轻蔑，端起茶来抿了一口，努力让自己冷静下来。对金斯利大发雷霆是没有意义的;他说的话并不是来自一个坏地方，她只会在事后感到可怕。

“I will come back, Kingsley,” she finally said, lowering the cup to the desk, “but this project has been good for me and it’s important that I see it through. Your own interview is going to be a significant part of the book—you were my biggest inside-the-Ministry source—aren’t you keen to see it in print one day?”
“我会回来的，金斯利，”她终于说，把杯子放到桌子上，“但这个项目对我来说很好，我必须把它完成。你自己的采访将成为这本书的重要组成部分——你是我最大的内阁消息来源——你不是很想有一天看到它出版吗？

“I am pleased to have been able to contribute in my own small way, Hermione.” Kingsley offered her an appeasingly gratified smile. “And I’m also pleased that you feel that some time away has been positive for you. But I would have thought you’d get more benefit out of taking part in some more hands-on and practical work.” 
“我很高兴能够以自己的方式做出贡献，赫敏。”金斯莱向她露出一个令人满意的微笑。“我也很高兴你觉得离开一段时间对你来说是积极的。但我本以为你会从参加一些更多的实践和实践工作中获得更多好处。

Determined not to respond with ill-advised haste, Hermione pinched the tip of her tongue between her teeth, focusing on the pain of it as Kingsley went on. “I’m afraid I struggle to understand why you’re so determined to linger in the war. At the Ministry, we’re rebuilding and moving forward. I always got the impression you shared those goals.”
赫敏决定不以不明智的匆忙来回应，她用牙齿捏住了舌尖，随着金斯莱继续说下去，她专注于它的痛苦。“恐怕我很难理解你为什么这么决心在战争中徘徊。在教育部，我们正在重建和前进。我一直觉得你有相同的目标。

Despite having almost bitten through the pointed tip of her tongue, Hermione’s tone was still sharp when she responded. “Just because everyone else is happy to sweep the war under the carpet for the sake of moving on doesn’t mean I am, Kingsley. I tried that for years. It didn’t work. So I’m trying something different.”
尽管几乎咬穿了她的尖舌尖，但赫敏回应时的语气仍然很尖锐。“仅仅因为其他人都乐于为了继续前进而将战争扫地出门，并不意味着我是，金斯利。我尝试了好几年。它没有奏效。所以我正在尝试一些不同的东西。

“But moving on takes time, Hermione. And patience. There is nothing to be gained from walking forward while your gaze remains fixed behind you.”
“但继续前进需要时间，赫敏。还有耐心。当你的目光一直固定在身后时，向前走是没有任何好处的。

“I don't think that's entirely true,” Hermione said quietly. “There are lessons we can learn from what happened and I think we can benefit from dissecting the minds of the people who were involved in the events as much as the events themselves.”
“我不认为这完全正确，”赫敏轻声说。“我们可以从发生的事情中吸取教训，我认为我们可以从剖析参与事件的人的思想以及事件本身中受益。”

“I hardly think dissecting the mind of Lucius Malfoy will teach us how to create a just society which aims to do the right things.” 
“我不认为剖析卢修斯·马尔福的思想会教会我们如何创造一个公正的社会，旨在做正确的事情。”

“No, but I wouldn’t mind knowing more about the hows and whys of his choices. I found interviewing Draco to be more enlightening than I expected. Besides the usefulness, Kingsley, sometimes it’s nice just to have knowledge for its own sake.”
“不，但我不介意更多地了解他的选择是怎么做的，以及为什么。我发现采访 Draco 比我预期的更有启发性。除了有用之外，金斯利，有时仅仅为了知识本身而拥有知识也很好。

Kingsley gave her a sceptical look and stirred a sixth spoonful of sugar into his tea. Hermione couldn’t tell if that was a good sign or a bad one; he had never done it in front of her before. 
金斯利怀疑地看了她一眼，然后把第六勺糖倒进了他的茶里。赫敏分不清这是个好兆头还是坏兆头;他以前从来没有在她面前做过。

“Kingsley,” Hermione sighed, leaning back in her chair while keeping her hands planted on the desk, “I was invited into the wizarding world at the age of eleven and within six years, there were people prepared to kill me for accepting that invitation.” She lowered her hands down into her lap and rubbed at the faint scar hidden behind her thin, long-sleeved top. “I just can’t—sometimes I wonder if I ever really knew the wizarding world. I need to understand—and if I can’t then I need to know —what makes people...”
“金斯利，”赫敏叹了口气，向后靠在椅子上，双手放在桌子上，“我在十一岁的时候就被邀请进入魔法世界，不到六年，就有人准备因为接受了那个邀请而杀了我。她把手放到膝盖上，揉搓着藏在她薄薄的长袖上衣后面的淡淡的伤疤。“我就是不能——有时候我会想我是否真的了解过魔法世界。我需要理解——如果我不能理解，那么我就需要知道——是什么让人们......”

Trailing off, unsure of how to express exactly what she wanted, Hermione looked up and found that Kingsley’s expression had collapsed into a weary frown. 
赫敏慢慢地走开，不知道该如何表达她想要的东西，她抬起头，发现金斯莱的表情已经皱成了疲惫的眉头。

“Hermione, I fear you’re going to be disappointed by the answers you receive. You cannot change the past and one man’s story will not provide you with a blueprint for creating a better future.”
“赫敏，我担心你会对你收到的答案感到失望。你无法改变过去，一个人的故事不会为你提供创造更美好未来的蓝图。

“Maybe not,” Hermione raised her shoulder in a shrug. “But while I don’t ever want to forget what we fought for, Kingsley, I also don’t want to run the risk of forgetting what we were fighting against.”
“也许不是，”赫敏耸耸肩。“但是，虽然我永远不想忘记我们为之奋斗的东西，金斯利，但我也不想冒着忘记我们曾经为之奋斗的东西的风险。”

Kingsley exhaled through his nose and shook his head. Taking a drink, he lowered his cup and leaned back in his chair to observe her, his hands clasped in his lap. 
金斯利用鼻子呼出一口气，摇了摇头。喝了一口，他放下杯子，靠在椅子上看着她，双手紧握在膝盖上。

“Look,” he said, “if I’m being perfectly honest, I’m not sure how much I can do for you here. After the events of his trial, many considered Lucius Malfoy’s sentence to be fair, or even lenient. He only avoided Azkaban by the grace of Harry’s testimony.”
“听着，”他说，“如果我说实话，我不确定我能在这里为你做多少事情。在他的审判事件之后，许多人认为卢修斯·马尔福的判决是公平的，甚至是宽大的。他只是靠着哈利的证词才避开了阿兹卡班。

“I know that. I also know that almost a decade has passed and that, as Minister for Magic, you have the power to...acknowledge acts which might hint at a desire to atone.”
“我知道。我也知道已经过去了将近十年，作为魔法部长，您有能力......承认可能暗示赎罪欲望的行为。

Kingsley raised an eyebrow which distinctly asked Hermione who she was kidding. “He has yet to show any such desire. To anyone.”
金斯莱挑了挑眉毛，显然是在问赫敏她在开什么玩笑。“他还没有表现出任何这样的愿望。对任何人。

“Helping me would certainly be a step in the right direction, don’t you think? Working with a Muggle-born.”
“帮助我肯定是朝着正确方向迈出的一步，你不觉得吗？和一个麻瓜出身的人一起工作。

“I’d find it hard to believe in the sincerity of his actions when you clearly intend to dangle his reward in front of him as his primary incentive, Hermione.”
“我很难相信他的行为是真诚的，因为你明明打算把他的奖励作为他的主要激励，赫敏。”

An exasperated but fond smile was tugging at Kingsley’s lips and Hermione couldn’t help but grin guiltily at him. “Kingsley, I know you want me to return to the Ministry but I’m not going to abandon what I’m working on.”
金斯莱的嘴唇上扯着一个恼怒但又可爱的笑容，赫敏忍不住对他咧嘴一笑。“金斯莱，我知道你想让我回到魔法部，但我不会放弃我正在做的事情。”

“What if I tell you that rather than lessen his sentence for helping you, I’ll use anything he might additionally confess to have him locked up for longer?”
“如果我告诉你，与其因为帮助你而减轻他的刑期，不如用他可能额外供认的任何东西来把他关得更久呢？”

“ Would you do that?”
“你会那样做吗？”

Kingsley tapped the edge of his cup with his forefinger, looking down into the ripples it caused on the surface of his tea. “No,” he said finally and reluctantly. “No, I wouldn’t. He’s been tried and convicted for his actions in both wars and more trials would not especially fit the spirit of moving on that I’m trying to cultivate.”
金斯利用食指敲了敲杯子的边缘，低头看着它在茶叶表面引起的涟漪。“不，”他终于不情愿地说。“不，我不会。他因在两场战争中的行为而受到审判和定罪，更多的审判并不特别符合我正在努力培养的继续前进的精神。

Hermione nodded—that was exactly what she’d thought. Refusal to move on was, after all, what he hated about what she was doing.
赫敏点点头——她正是这么想的。毕竟，拒绝继续前进是他讨厌她所做的事情的原因。

“Then what if I withdraw your half pay?” he asked, glancing up at her from under his furrowed brow.
“那如果我把你的一半工资拿出来呢？”他问道，从他皱起的眉头下抬头瞥了她一眼。

The idea of that made Hermione’s smile falter and her heart hammer. She wasn’t struggling but without that stipend, she would be. Of course, she couldn’t tell him that. “Then I’ll have to find a way to manage. I’m not giving up.”
这个想法让赫敏的笑容变得迟钝，她的心也受到了打击。她没有挣扎，但如果没有这笔津贴，她就会挣扎。当然，她不能告诉他。“那我就得想办法管理了。我不会放弃。

Kingsley scoffed and pointed a finger at her. “This is why I want you back, you know. Passion, commitment, drive . We need those qualities here. You’re wasting them on getting things for Lucius Malfoy.”
金斯利嘲笑着用手指指着她。“这就是我希望你回来的原因，你知道的。激情、承诺、动力。我们在这里需要这些品质。你把他们浪费在给卢修斯·马尔福买东西上了。

“I’m not doing this for Lucius Malfoy, Kingsley,” Hermione said, mortified by the mere suggestion. “I’m doing it for myself .”
“我不是为了卢修斯·马尔福做这件事，金斯莱，”赫敏说，仅仅因为这个建议就感到羞愧。“我这样做是为了我自己。”

“And once this project is complete, will you return to the Ministry then?”
“那么，一旦这个项目完成，你会回到魔法部吗？”

Guilt tugged Hermione’s stomach like a fish hook. If she was completely honest with herself, she didn’t particularly relish the idea of returning to the Ministry. Maybe, she reasoned with herself, when she felt she’d done something for herself—done some writing alongside her reading—she’d warm to the idea. 
内疚像鱼钩一样拉扯着赫敏的肚子。如果她对自己完全诚实，她并不是特别喜欢重返魔法部的想法。也许，她心里想着，当她觉得自己为自己做了些什么——在阅读的同时写了一些东西——她会喜欢这个想法。

“I certainly don’t have any other plans.” 
“我当然没有任何其他计划。”

Kingsley drummed his fingers rapidly on the surface of his desk, looking at Hermione through narrowed eyes. 
金斯利用手指在桌子上快速敲打，眯起眼睛看着赫敏。

“Alright, Hermione. I will see what I can do.” He held up a cautioning finger when Hermione half-rose from her seat in delight. “By that I mean I will put my finger to the wind and see what kind of reaction I can reasonably expect if I suggest showing Lucius Malfoy any kind of mercy. But I can make no promises yet.”
“好吧，赫敏。我会看看我能做些什么。当赫敏高兴地从座位上半站起来时，他举起了一根警告的手指。“我的意思是，如果我建议对卢修斯·马尔福表现出任何形式的怜悯，我会合理地期待什么样的反应。但我还不能做出任何承诺。

“Thank you, Kingsley. I can work with that. I can work with hope.” Hermione said, though a small part of her mind doubted that was actually true. Would hope really be enough for a man like Lucius Malfoy?
“谢谢你，金斯利。我可以处理它。我可以带着希望工作。赫敏说，尽管她心中有一小部分怀疑这是否真的是真的。希望对卢修斯·马尔福这样的男人来说真的足够了吗？

Chapter 6
第 6 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione returns to Malfoy Manor with her vague offerings from her meeting with Kingsley. Will Kingsley's promise of trying his best to get Malfoy something be enough?
赫敏带着她与金斯莱会面时含糊不清的提议回到马尔福庄园。金斯利承诺尽他最大的努力让马尔福得到一些东西就足够了吗？

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾May 4th
5月4日

When Hermione arrived at Malfoy Manor for the second meeting—a week after the first, as agreed—she was greeted at the front door by a harried looking Draco. He was distractedly trying to button his robes with one hand as he pulled the door open, glancing up at her only to make sure of who he was looking at. 
当赫敏到达马尔福庄园参加第二次会议时——按照约定，在第一次会议的一周后——在前门迎接她的是一个看起来焦急的德拉科。他一边拉开门，一边分心地试图用一只手扣上长袍的扣子，抬头看了她一眼，只是为了确定他正在看谁。

“Granger, punctual as always,” he said, letting go of the door handle to use both hands to fix his collar. “Come in, come in.”
“格兰杰，一如既往的准时，”他说，松开门把手，用双手固定他的衣领。“进来，进来。”

“You seem—”
“你看起来——”

“Late?” he asked. “That’s because I am. Astoria’s check-up at St. Mungo’s has been moved forward by an hour so I’m going to meet her.”
“迟到？”“那是因为我是。阿斯托利亚在圣芒戈医院的检查已经提前了一个小时，所以我要去见她。

His movements became even more irate as his collar wouldn’t lay flat. Before he could do himself an injury, Hermione stepped forward and placed her fingers on the back of his hand. “Malfoy,” she said, taking out her wand. “It will be fine. She will be fine.” Hermione tapped at his collar and it corrected itself with a tight jerking motion that made Draco grimace. “ You will be fine.”
他的动作变得更加愤怒，因为他的衣领不能平放。在他能够伤害自己之前，赫敏走上前，将手指放在他的手背上。“马尔福，”她说，一边掏出她的魔杖。“会没事的。她会没事的。赫敏轻敲了他的衣领，它用一个紧绷的抽搐动作纠正了自己，这让德拉科做了个鬼脸。“你会没事的。”

His shoulders seemed to drop several inches as he exhaled and dragged a hand through his hair. “I know, it’s just—” he cut himself short and shook his head. “Look, I need to get to the Floo but...my father.”
他的肩膀似乎下垂了几英寸，他呼出一口气，一只手拽着他的头发。“我知道，只是——”他打断了自己，摇了摇头。“听着，我需要去飞路，但是......我的父亲。

“We don’t need a supervisor.”
“我们不需要主管。”

“Are you absolutely sure about that?” he asked with a doubtful narrowing of his eyes. “I got a real sense that if I hadn’t been standing in front of them, one of you might have left the building through his study windows last time.”
“你绝对确定吗？” 他疑惑地眯起眼睛问道。“我真的感觉到，如果我没有站在他们面前，你们中的一个人上次可能会从他的书房窗户离开大楼。”

“We’ll be fine .”
“我们会没事的。”

Hermione wasn’t actually sure how firmly she believed that but Draco looked so utterly harassed that she wanted nothing more than for him to get to Astoria to settle his mind. Clearly unconvinced but willing to lie to himself for the sake of an easier life, Draco nodded. 
赫敏其实并不确定她有多坚信这一点，但德拉科看起来是如此彻底的骚扰，以至于她只想让他去阿斯托利亚安抚一下。显然不相信，但为了更轻松的生活，他愿意对自己撒谎，他点了点头。

“Alright. You remember the way to his study, yes? Just up the stairs and…” he trailed off, his hands vaguely directing left and right as he backed away towards a door to the left of them.
“好吧。你还记得去他书房的路，对吧？就在楼梯上......”他慢慢地走开，双手模糊地左右指着，同时他退到他们左边的一扇门里。

“I remember,” she said firmly, pointing to the door and assuming it led to some kind of Floo. “Now go.”
“我记得，”她坚定地说，指着门，假设它导致了某种飞路。“现在走。”

“I’m sure I’ll be back by the time you’re done,” he called over his shoulder before disappearing through the door. “I’ll try to catch you before you go!”
“我确定你做完的时候我会回来的，”他回头喊道，然后消失在门外。“我会在你走之前抓住你！”

The door closed with an echoing clunk and Hermione was left standing in the cavernous entrance hall, her hand clutching the strap of her bag. She had lied; she could not remember the way to Lucius Malfoy’s study. Hogwarts was bigger than Malfoy Manor and she’d managed to learn her way around there, she reasoned to herself. After several years, admittedly, but still. 
门关上了，发出一声回荡的叮当声，留下赫敏站在洞穴般的入口大厅里，她的手紧紧抓住包的带子。她撒了谎;她记不清去卢修斯·马尔福书房的路了。霍格沃茨比马尔福庄园大，她设法在那里学会了自己的方法，她心里想。几年后，诚然，但仍然如此。

With a sigh, Hermione closed the front door and began to make her way up the central staircase knowing that, at least, was the correct start. When the stairs split, she turned right. They had definitely turned right. Reaching the top of the stairs she looked around, gnawing at her lower lip. A vase standing on a pedestal to her left struck her as familiar, so she started down that corridor, the sound of her trainers muffled by the thick carpets. 
赫敏叹了口气，关上了前门，开始沿着中央楼梯走去，她知道，至少，这是正确的开始。当楼梯劈开时，她向右转。他们肯定是向右转的。到达楼梯顶端时，她环顾四周，啃咬着自己的下唇。她左边基座上的一个花瓶让她觉得很熟悉，于是她开始沿着那条走廊走，她的运动鞋的声音被厚厚的地毯掩盖了。

Trying to use her memory of the paintings she’d observed on her first visit, Hermione felt fairly confident that she was moving in the right direction. All she had to do was avoid the cold and curious glares of the paintings’ inhabitants. It was only when she reached a long corridor that she felt sure was the right one—the large window at its end was the tell—that she stopped entirely. There were doors all the way along on either side and she couldn’t for the life of her remember which one was the study. Who had hallways this long in their home? It was ludicrous.
赫敏试图利用她第一次来访时看到的画作的记忆，觉得自己正朝着正确的方向前进。她所要做的就是避开画中居民的冰冷和好奇的目光。直到她走到一条长长的走廊时，她才觉得自己是正确的——走廊尽头的大窗户就是问题所在——她才完全停了下来。两边都有门，她一辈子都记不清哪一扇是书房。谁家里有这么长时间的走廊？这太荒谬了。

Shifting from foot to foot, Hermione considered her options. She could always just try each one and hope that wouldn’t result in walking in on Lucius Malfoy using the toilet or something. Hermione shuddered. She would knock on each one and then try it. 
赫敏从一只脚换到另一只脚，考虑了她的选择。她总是可以尝试每一个，希望这不会导致路修斯·马尔福使用马桶或其他什么东西。赫敏浑身颤抖。她会敲敲每一个，然后尝试一下。

“You there,” said a commanding female voice.
“你在那儿，”一个威严的女声说。

Hermione started, turning left and right on the spot. Eventually, her eyes landed on a painting of a young woman who was giving her an appraising look. The woman was dressed in opulent blue robes, the edges highlighted by glimmering, intricately painted gold stitching. Her deep brown hair fell loose and flowed down to her waist, which had a jewel-encrusted golden belt draped around it. It didn’t matter that the jewels had been painted, Hermione thought they looked ludicrously expensive. 
赫敏开始说话，当场左右转身。最终，她的目光落在了一幅画上，画的是一位年轻女子，她正在用评价的眼神看着她。这个女人穿着华丽的蓝色长袍，边缘被闪闪发光、错综复杂的金色缝线所突出。她深棕色的头发松散地垂到腰间，腰间系着一条镶有宝石的金色腰带。那些珠宝被涂上了油漆并不重要，赫敏觉得它们看起来贵得离谱。

“Me?” Hermione asked.
“我？”赫敏问道。

“I don’t see anyone else wandering around here like a lost puppy, do you?” the woman asked loftily, stepping forward through the tower scene of her portrait to peer more closely at Hermione. “Who are you?”
“我没有看到其他人像一只迷路的小狗一样在这里徘徊，是吗？”女人高傲地问道，一边向前走去，穿过她画像中的塔楼场景，更仔细地凝视着赫敏。“你是谁？”

“I’m...I’m Hermione Granger.” 
“我......我是赫敏·格兰杰。

“And what are you doing here Hermione Granger? Why are you wandering the halls of this manor unaccompanied?”
“赫敏·格兰杰，你在这里做什么？你怎么独自在这座庄园的大厅里闲逛呢？

“I’m looking for the study,” Hermione glanced down the corridor, her eyes flicking back and forth between the doors. “I know it’s here somewhere , I’m just not entirely…”
“我在找书房，”赫敏顺着走廊往下看，她的眼睛在门之间来回扫视。“我知道它在这里的某个地方，我只是不完全......”

“The master’s study?” The woman looked Hermione up and down appraisingly, slowly bringing her hands up to rest on her hips. “Why?”
“师傅的书房？”女人评价地上下打量着赫敏，慢慢地将双手放在她的臀部上。“为什么？”

“I’m interviewing him. I was here last week.”
“我在采访他。我上周来过这里。

Squinting out of her frame, the woman scrunched up her nose and nodded. “Ah, yes , of course. I remember your face and…” Her eyes drifted down Hermione’s clothing and she took a deep breath in, leaving the rest of her sentence unsaid but somehow louder for that. “The young master led you through here, hm?”
女人眯起眼睛从她的身躯中走出来，皱起鼻子点了点头。“啊，是的，当然。我记得你的脸，然后......”她的目光顺着赫敏的衣服滑落，深吸了一口气，没有说出她接下来的话，但不知何故，她的声音更大了。“少爷带你经过这里，嗯？”

Hermione bristled, resisting the urge to look down at her light jumper and jeans. There was nothing wrong with them today. Why was she being interrogated if it was already obvious she had a right to be here? “Could you please show me the right door?” she asked, trying to keep a polite, even tone. “I’d rather not walk into a room that I shouldn’t.”
赫敏勃然大怒，忍住了低头看她轻便套头衫和牛仔裤的冲动。他们今天没有任何问题。如果已经很明显她有权在这里，为什么还要审讯她呢？“你能给我指一下正确的门吗？”她问道，试图保持礼貌、平和的语气。“我宁愿不走进一个我不该走进的房间。”

The portrait scrutinised her, clearly trying to weigh up how bored she was against how disinclined she was to help. “Very well,” she finally sighed, pointing to the side of her frame. “Follow me.” The woman lifted the front of her robes an inch off the ground and began walking into neighbouring portraits, utterly indifferent to the protests of their inhabitants.
这幅画像仔细地审视着她，显然是想权衡她有多无聊和她有多不愿意帮忙。“很好，”她终于叹了口气，指了指她的框架侧面。“跟我来。”这个女人把她的长袍前襟抬离地面一英寸，开始走向附近的肖像，对居民的抗议完全无动于衷。

“So,” the portrait said, “interviewing him, you said?”
“所以，”画像上写着，“你说采访他吗？

“Yes.”
“是的。”

The portrait sharply exhaled an incredulous little laugh through her nose. “Well, good luck ,” she said. “Always scowling these days, that one.”
这幅画像从她的鼻子里猛地吐出一声难以置信的小笑声。“嗯，祝你好运，”她说。“这几天总是皱着眉头，那个。”

Hermione looked around in surprise. She wouldn’t have expected any portrait of Malfoy Manor to be even slightly critical of its inhabitants. Certainly not to a complete stranger. If the portrait noticed her stare, she didn’t acknowledge it. 
赫敏惊讶地环顾四周。她不会想到任何马尔福庄园的肖像会对它的居民有哪怕一点点的批评。当然不是对一个完全陌生的人来说。如果画像注意到了她的凝视，她并没有承认。

“Practically prowls the corridors,” she continued, picking up a glass of wine from the table surrounded by the three waifish blonde witches Hermione had seen on her last visit. They objected shrilly but she waved them off irritably. “Miserable sod.”
“几乎是在走廊里徘徊，”她继续说，从桌子上拿起一杯酒，周围是赫敏上次来访时见过的三个金发女巫。他们尖锐地反对，但她烦躁地挥手让他们离开。“可怜的草皮。”

It was hard not to nod in agreement. Perhaps seeing it, the woman glanced over at her from the field of flowers that she had just entered. “I hope you have thick skin and an abundance of patience.”
很难不点头同意。也许是看到了，女人从她刚刚进入的花田中瞥了她一眼。“我希望你脸皮厚，有充足的耐心。”

“Er...maybe more of the former more than the latter.”
“呃......也许前者比后者更多。

“You’ll need both,” she said, throwing back the wine in one gulp before dropping the glass in the field without missing a beat. “It was bad enough before she left but after? Well, Merlin....”
“你两者都需要，”她说，一口气把酒倒掉，然后毫不犹豫地把杯子扔进了田野。“她走之前已经够糟糕了，但之后呢？ 嗯，梅林......”

Hermione frowned, her mouth opening to ask what the portrait meant but before she could get a word out, the woman had stopped in a moonlit scene at the edge of a lake and pointed at the door to the left of the frame. “Here you are, then. Don’t let him upset you.”
赫敏皱起眉头，张大嘴巴问这幅画像是什么意思，但还没等她说出话来，那个女人就停在了湖边的月光下，指着画框左边的门。“那么，你在这里。别让他让你难过。

“Thank you,” Hermione said, glancing at her watch to see that she was still on time. “You know, you’re actually quite—” Eyes widening, Hermione cut herself off and moved to open the door.
“谢谢你，”赫敏说，看了一眼手表，发现她仍然准时。“你知道的，你其实还挺——”赫敏睁大了眼睛，打断了自己，动身去开门。

“I’m actually quite what ?” came the portrait’s lilting voice.
“我其实很像？”

Pausing, her hand on the brass handle of the door, Hermione’s eyes closed in a cringe. Sometimes she wished she could just shut her stupid mouth. Stepping out for the doorway to look at the woman again, Hermione offered what she hoped was an apologetic smile. “You’re actually alright for a Malfoy.”
停顿了一下，她的手放在门的黄铜把手上，赫敏畏缩地闭上了眼睛。有时她希望她能闭上她那愚蠢的嘴。赫敏走出门口，再次看着那个女人，露出了一个她希望是抱歉的微笑。“你其实对马尔福来说还不错。”

A wry chuckle escaped the portrait and she brought her hand up to cover her mouth. “Oh, dear, I’m not a Malfoy,” she assured her. “I just married one.”
画像中发出一声苦笑，她抬起手捂住了嘴。“哦，亲爱的，我不是马尔福，”她向她保证。“我刚刚嫁给了一个。”

Without waiting for a response, the portrait stepped out of the frame and made her way back down the corridor, leaving a gaping Hermione in her wake. Blinking rapidly, Hermione collected herself and turned her attention back to the door. Taking a breath to gird herself, she raised her fist and knocked twice on the thick wood. 
不等他回答，画像就从画面中走了出来，沿着走廊走回去，留下目瞪口呆的赫敏。赫敏迅速地眨了眨眼，让自己平静下来，把注意力转回门口。她深吸一口气，束紧身体，举起拳头，在厚厚的木头上敲了两下。

“Enter,” came Lucius Malfoy’s muffled response from within. 
“进来，”卢修斯·马尔福从里面低沉地回答道。

Walking into the office, Hermione found it largely the same as her last visit, though this time Lucius Malfoy was already seated behind his desk rather than standing by the window. On seeing her, he slowly set down the eagle feather quill he had been using and pushed a sheet of parchment to the side of his elbow.
走进办公室，赫敏发现这里和她上次来的时候差不多，不过这次卢修斯·马尔福已经坐在他的桌子后面了，而不是站在窗边。一看到她，他慢慢地放下了他一直在用的鹰羽毛笔，把一张羊皮纸推到他的手肘边。

“Good afternoon, Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said, doing her best to be as polite as possible—Draco was stressed enough without her going in all wands blazing. If she established the baseline of their interactions as perfectly pleasant, the inevitable escalation (or decline) would hopefully be more manageable. 
“下午好，马尔福先生，”赫敏说，尽量保持礼貌——德拉科已经够紧张了，而她却没有全力以赴。如果她将他们互动的基线确定为完全愉快，那么不可避免的升级（或下降）有望更容易控制。

“Close the door,” he snapped, waving a hand. 
“关上门，”他厉声说，挥了挥手。

Clearly he was not intending to approach the matter with the same level of consideration that she was. Hand flexing around her bag strap, Hermione closed the door and moved to approach his desk. He was watching her carefully from his seat, his eyes narrowed and his hands clasped in front of him. 
显然，他并不打算像她那样考虑这个问题。赫敏用手扭动着她的包带，关上门，走近他的桌子。他从座位上仔细地看着她，眼睛眯起，双手紧握在身前。

“Were you talking to someone out there?” he asked. 
“你是在和外面的人说话吗？”

Hermione’s arm stuttered as she lowered her bag to the floor so that she could take the same seat as last time. “Oh,” she said slowly, lowering herself into the chair by holding onto its arms. “Er, yes. I was. I was talking to one of your portraits.”
赫敏的手臂结结巴巴地把包放到地板上，这样她就可以坐在和上次一样的座位上了。“哦，”她慢慢地说，扶着椅子的扶手把自己放到椅子上。“呃，是的。我曾经是。我正在和你的一幅肖像说话。

“Myself and my son aren’t enough for you? You feel you have to interrogate my artwork, too?”
“我和我的儿子对你来说还不够吗？你觉得你也必须审问我的作品吗？

Hermione fought the urge to roll her eyes and instead crossed her legs, pressing her thighs together hard. “No, Mr Malfoy, she was giving me directions. Although she was certainly right about you.”
赫敏强忍着想翻白眼的冲动，反而盘起双腿，用力地将她的大腿压在一起。“不，马尔福先生，她在给我指路。虽然她对你的看法肯定是对的。

“And what, exactly, is that supposed to mean?”
“那到底是什么意思？”

Fixing a sweetly innocent expression to her face, Hermione eyed Malfoy’s dark scowl. “Nothing. Shall we get started?”
赫敏的脸上露出甜美无辜的表情，盯着马尔福阴暗的皱眉。“什么都没有。我们开始吧？

“Not so fast, Miss Granger.” Malfoy shot her a cold smirk, clearly relishing the opportunity to get his own back. “I think the permission I gave you to return here was predicated on you getting something for me. Something from the Minister for Magic.”
“别这么快，格兰杰小姐。”马尔福冷冷地朝她瞥了一笑，显然很享受这个找回自己的机会。“我想我允许你回到这里是以你为我得到一些东西为前提的。魔法部长的东西。

Having already started leaning down to open her bag, Hermione straightened up and fixed him with a steady gaze. Of course he wouldn’t have forgotten. She’d have to hope that Kingsley’s promise to try would be enough. “I met with Kingsley.”
赫敏已经开始俯下身子打开她的包，她直起身来，用坚定的目光注视着他。他当然不会忘记。她只能希望金斯莱答应尝试就足够了。“我见过金斯利。”

He didn’t say anything, simply raising his eyebrows expectantly. Hermione sighed. “He’s going to see what he can do.”
他什么也没说，只是期待地扬起眉毛。赫敏叹了口气。“他要看看自己能做什么。”

“See what he can do ,” Lucius repeated, derision lanced through every word. “Didn’t I tell you not to come back here if you didn’t secure something for me, Miss Granger?”
“看看他能做什么，”卢修斯重复道，每一个字都带着嘲讽。“我不是告诉过你，如果你没有为我弄到什么东西，就不要回来吗，格兰杰小姐？”

“Well, yes, but—”
“嗯，是的，但是——”

“And have you?”
“你呢？”

“Not exactly, but—”
“不完全是，但是——”

“Then get. Out .” 
“那就去吧。 出去。

Hermione’s mouth snapped shut and she goggled at Malfoy. His face was inscrutable but his words dripped with venom. 
赫敏猛地闭上了嘴，她瞪着马尔福。他的脸色高深莫测，但他的话语中却滴着毒液。

“Mr Malfoy,” she said, trying to keep her tone level and reasonable, “Kingsley didn't say ‘no’ outright. You likely will get something but it'll take time. Besides, he isn’t inclined to just give you something to help me. It’ll help for him to see evidence that you’re doing as promised. Think of what you’ll get as a reward rather than an incentive.”
“马尔福先生，”她说，试图保持语气平和合理，“金斯莱没有直接说'不'。你可能会得到一些东西，但这需要时间。此外，他不倾向于只给你一些东西来帮助我。让他看到你正在按照承诺做的证据会有所帮助。把你会得到的东西看作是一种奖励，而不是一种激励。

“I don’t want to hear it, Miss Granger. You have not fulfilled your side of our agreement, so I have no reason to fulfil mine.”
“我不想听，格兰杰小姐。你没有履行我们这边的协议，所以我没有理由履行我的协议。

“Are you forgetting that you’re being punished for things you actually did, Mr Malfoy? Crimes that you actually committed?” Hermione asked, her composure unravelling. “You should be thankful that anyone is giving you an opportunity to claw back some freedom because you’re certainly not doing anything to help yourself .”
“你忘了你真的做了什么就受到了惩罚吗，马尔福先生？你到底犯了什么罪？赫敏问道，她的镇定逐渐瓦解。“你应该感谢任何人给你一个机会来夺回一些自由，因为你肯定没有做任何事情来帮助自己。”

A muscle in his jaw jumped as he clenched his teeth and glared at her. “Be very careful, Miss Granger.”
当他咬紧牙关瞪着她时，他下巴上的肌肉跳了起来。“要小心，格兰杰小姐。”

“Why?” Hermione ground out, her chin lifted and arms crossed. “You can’t do anything to me.”
“为什么？”赫敏停了下来，抬起下巴，双臂交叉。“你不能对我做任何事情。”

There was a tense beat in which Hermione was sure Lucius Malfoy was thinking about all of the things he wanted to do. Her stomach flipped uncomfortably, a reminder that she had just goaded a dangerous man. What if he decided that the satisfaction of hurting her was worth losing the little freedom he had left? Especially since he wasn’t quite as fixated on getting it back as she’d hoped he would be.
赫敏确信卢修斯·马尔福正在考虑他想做的所有事情。她的肚子不舒服地翻动着，提醒着她刚刚激怒了一个危险的男人。如果他决定伤害她的满足感值得失去他所剩无几的自由呢？尤其是因为他并不像她希望的那样执着于把它拿回来。

When he next spoke, however, his voice was calm. “Perhaps not, but I do not have to do anything for you, either.” As though underlining his point, he reached for a book that was lying on his desk, dragged it towards himself, flipped it open and started reading. Hermione gaped. 
然而，当他再次说话时，他的声音很平静。“也许不是，但我也不必为你做任何事情。”仿佛在强调他的观点，他伸手拿起桌上的一本书，把它拖向自己，翻开它开始阅读。赫敏目瞪口呆。

“You’re just going to ignore me?”
“你就这么不理我？”

He turned a page with an exaggerated flick, wearing an expression of affected interest in whatever was on the page.
他夸张地翻开了一页，脸上露出对书页上的任何东西都表现出兴趣的表情。

“Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said, leaning forward in her seat to try and get into his eye line. “I know that I haven’t been able to get what I promised you yet but if you work with me you might still get it. If I leave now, there’s no chance. You’ll just be...be... cutting off your nose to spite your face!”
“马尔福先生，”赫敏说，在座位上向前倾，试图进入他的视线。“我知道我还没能兑现我对你的承诺，但如果你和我合作，你还是会得到它。如果我现在离开，就没有机会了。你只会......是。。。割掉你的鼻子来狠狠地��

He didn’t even look at her. With a low growl, Hermione folded her arms and leaned back in her chair, staring at him. “Well, I’ve put aside an hour for this meeting, so I’m not leaving. You still have a chance to change your mind.”
他甚至没有看她一眼。赫敏低沉地咆哮着，双臂交叉，靠在椅子上，盯着他。“嗯，我已经为这次会议留出了一个小时，所以我不会走。你还有机会改变主意。

Bending down, Hermione reached into her bag and pulled out her Wheezebox and her Quick Quotes Quill. While Malfoy continued to read, she set up her equipment, placing the voice recorder at the centre of his desk and balancing the quill on a fresh sheet of parchment. As she did so, his eyes didn’t leave the book but Hermione noticed he didn’t turn the pages either. 
赫敏弯下腰，把手伸进包里，掏出她的喘息盒和她的快速报价羽毛笔。当马尔福继续阅读时，她设置了她的设备，将录音机放在他桌子的中央，并在一张新的羊皮纸上平衡羽毛笔。当她这样做的时候，他的眼睛并没有离开书，但赫敏注意到他也没有翻页。

Once she was satisfied everything was ready, Hermione leaned back in her seat again and simply stared at him in silence. If he felt the weight of her glare, he didn’t show it; his face was placid as he reclined into a more comfortable position on his chair and crossed one leg over the other, balancing the book on his knee. Glancing down at her watch, Hermione saw she still had 45 minutes left. Oh, God . 
当她满意一切都准备好后，赫敏再次靠在座位上，只是沉默地盯着他。如果他感觉到她目光的重量，他不会表现出来;他靠在椅子上，以更舒适的姿势躺下，一条腿交叉在另一条腿上，将书放在膝盖上。赫敏低头看了一眼手表，发现她还剩下 45 分钟。 天啊。

Hermione had never spent so long looking at Lucius Malfoy. And she was fairly certain he had never spent so long pretending to be unaware that he was being looked at. Drumming her fingers on the arms of her chair, she trailed her eyes over him, taking in his straight posture and neat black robes. 
赫敏从来没有花这么长时间看卢修斯·马尔福。而且她相当确定他从来没有花这么长时间假装不知道自己被注视着。她用手指敲打着椅子的扶手，目光扫过他，欣赏着他笔直的姿势和整洁的黑色长袍。

Remembering how scruffy she’d felt when she was last in his company, she’d made sure to wear her newest jeans and a fine, pale blue cashmere jumper that Ginny and Harry had given her at Christmas. It helped with her confidence, even if she was sure he hadn't noticed it. It was an absolute certainty that he would only ever notice when she did something wrong so that he could reinforce his bad opinions of her.
想起上次在他身边时她感觉有多邋遢，她确保穿上了她最新的牛仔裤和一件金妮和哈利在圣诞节送给她的精美的淡蓝色羊绒套头衫。这帮助了她的自信，即使她确定他没有注意到这一点。他绝对肯定，只有当她做错了什么时，他才会注意到，这样他就可以加强他对她的坏看法。

Raising a hand, he flicked another page and Hermione assessed the long, pale fingers of his right hand. One bore a golden signet ring while another was adorned with a larger, silver ring encrusted with emeralds. Hands that likely hadn’t done a day of hard work in their lives. Her eyes moved up his arms and she wondered if the Dark Mark was still stark on his forearm. Draco refused to let her look at his and she would never push the matter. 
他抬起一只手，又翻了一页，赫敏打量着他右手修长而苍白的手指。一个戴着金色图章戒指，而另一个则装饰着一个更大的银色戒指，上面镶嵌着祖母绿。这双手可能一生中都没有做过一天的辛苦工作。她的眼睛沿着他的手臂向上移动，她想知道黑暗标记是否仍然在他的前臂上。德拉科拒绝让她看他的，她永远不会推动这件事。

That high collar can’t be comfortable , Hermione mused, leaning her elbow on the arm of the chair and pillowing her chin on her fist. He really did remind her of an old Draco. Facially, at least. It was the nose. And possibly the jaw. Though she supposed he wasn’t old , exactly. He had to be in, what, his late forties? Close to fifty, maybe. Her parents were older than that but they had always seemed younger than he did. Probably because they enjoyed life and did nice things. Even if they were now doing them without her or any memory of her.
那个高领子可不舒服，赫敏沉思着，手肘靠在椅子的扶手上，用拳头捂着下巴。他真的让她想起了个老德拉科。至少在表面上是这样。是鼻子。可能还有下巴。虽然她认为他并不老，但确切地说。他得，什么，四十多岁了？也许接近 50 人。她的父母比那年长，但他们似乎总是比他年轻。可能是因为他们享受生活并做了好事。即使他们现在在没有她或她的任何记忆的情况下做这些事情。

He still looked tired but his face wasn’t obviously aged in any way. In fact, when his lips weren’t arranged in a sneer they looked almost—Hermione tilted her head—normal? Hermione was watching him so closely that she didn’t miss the way he shifted in his chair. A sly smile curled at her lips. Perhaps her inspection was finally getting to him. 
他看起来仍然很疲惫，但他的脸上并没有明显的衰老。事实上，当他的嘴唇没有冷笑时，它们看起来几乎——赫敏歪了歪头——正常吗？赫敏一直如此密切地看着他，以至于她没有错过他在椅子上移动的方式。她的嘴角弯起一抹狡猾的笑容。也许她的检查终于找到了他。

With a delicate but deliberately audible sigh, Hermione lowered her hands to her lap and pushed herself to her feet, looking around the office with the air of a woman who didn’t know what to be up to. The kind of woman, she guessed, that would put Lucius Malfoy on edge. Her trainers padded against the stone floor as she wandered the room, the sound becoming more muted when she crossed over the Persian rug. 
赫敏轻轻地叹了口气，把手放到膝盖上，站起身来，以一个不知道该做什么的女人的气势环顾着办公室。她猜想，是什么样的女人会让卢修斯·马尔福紧张不安。她在房间里走来走去，运动鞋垫在石头地板上，当她越过波斯地毯时，声音变得更加柔和。

Hands behind her back, Hermione explored slowly, pausing every few steps to look at a statue or a painting. She noticed there were no portraits in this room. Obviously, he liked his privacy. A finely carved end table was topped with elegant glass bottles and Hermione leaned down to look at them. Alcohol. Probably very expensive and not especially tasty.
赫敏双手背在背后，慢慢地探索着，每走几步就会停下来看一尊雕像或一幅画。她注意到这个房间里没有肖像。显然，他喜欢自己的隐私。一个精雕细琢的茶几上放着优雅的玻璃瓶，赫敏俯下身子看着它们。酒精。可能非常昂贵，而且不是特别好吃。

Stopping by one of his glass cabinets, she kept her hands behind her back and leaned in to inspect the small golden spyglass that was inside on the uppermost shelf. It was covered in delicate etchings and, leaning close enough that her breath fogged the glass, Hermione realised they were constellations. Beautiful .
在他的一个玻璃柜前停下脚步，她双手背在身后，俯身检查最上面架子上里面的金色小望远镜。上面布满了精致的蚀刻画，赫敏靠得足够近，以至于她的呼吸都把玻璃弄得雾蒙蒙的，这让赫敏意识到它们是星座。 美丽。

Feeling eyes on her, Hermione quickly glanced towards the desk but Malfoy appeared to be completely focused on his book. After watching him for a few more seconds, she turned her back on him entirely and wound her way over to the bookcase on the opposite side of his office. It went from the floor to the ceiling and ran along the length of the wall. Many of the books looked extremely old, the lettering on their leather spines worn and hard to read. Briefly forgetting where she was, Hermione drew even closer to the shelves and bent at the waist to look at some of the books lower down. 
赫敏感觉到有人在看着她，迅速地向桌子看了一眼，但马尔福似乎完全专注于他的书。又看了他几秒钟后，她完全背对着他，蜿蜒地走到他办公室对面的书架上。它从地板一直延伸到天花板，沿着墙壁的长度延伸。许多书看起来非常古老，皮革书脊上的字母磨损且难以阅读。赫敏暂时忘记了自己在哪里，她更靠近书架，弯下腰看下面的一些书。

She was reaching out to touch one of them when she heard the unmistakable sound of Lucius Malfoy softly clearing his throat. Snatching her hand back, Hermione straightened up and looked over her shoulder. He wasn’t looking at her, his head still bent over his book. With narrowed eyes, Hermione turned back around and reached for a book on a higher shelf and, once again, just before her fingertips could land on the spine, she heard him clear his throat, more firmly this time. 
她正伸手去摸其中一个人，这时她听到了卢修斯·马尔福轻声清嗓子的声音。赫敏把手抓回来，直起身来，回头看了看。他没有看着她，他的头仍然低着头看他的书。赫敏眯起眼睛，转过身来，伸手去拿高架上的一本书，再一次，就在她的指尖落在书脊上之前，她听到他清了清嗓子，这次更用力了。

Hermione spun around, arms crossed, and glared at him from across the room. He appeared not to notice and kept his focus resolutely on his book. It was sorely tempting to try reaching for a third time but something stopped her. A vague sense of self-preservation, possibly. 
赫敏转过身来，双臂交叉，从房间的另一头瞪着他。他似乎没有注意到，并坚定地将注意力集中在他的书上。她很想尝试第三次伸手，但有什么东西阻止了她。可能是一种模糊的自我保护意识。

Instead, she crossed the room again but made sure to run a casual finger all the way along the top of the leather sofa as she passed it, her eyes fixed on Malfoy. It was gratifying to see him raise a finger up to his temple and rub a small circle there.
相反，她再次穿过房间，但确保在经过真皮沙发时，她的手指随意地沿着皮沙发的顶部一直滑过，她的眼睛盯着马尔福。看到他把一根手指举到太阳穴上，在那里画了一个小圆圈，真是令人欣慰。

“We’re almost at an hour, Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said on reaching his desk. “Are you really going to give up what might be your last opportunity to gain something of your old life back?”
“我们差不多一个小时了，马尔福先生，”赫敏走到他的办公桌前说。“你真的要放弃可能是你最后的机会来找回你以前的生活吗？”

Ever so slowly, he looked up from his book and met her eyes. For a brief second, she thought he might speak but he merely blinked in an uncompromising way that reminded her of Crookshanks on those nights when he’d insisted on sitting across her half-finished essays. Infuriating .
他慢慢地从书中抬起头来，与她的眼睛相遇。有那么一瞬间，她以为他可能会说话，但他只是毫不妥协地眨了眨眼，这让她想起了克鲁克香克斯在那些坚持要坐在她半成品论文面前的夜晚。 令人愤怒。

“Fine,” Hermione snapped, grabbing the Wheezebox and quill to shove them in her bag. “Fine. You can just sit here forever, silent and alone in your study with your books that no one else can touch and never use your magic again. That’s fine by me.”
“好吧，”赫敏厉声说，抓起喘息盒和羽毛笔把它们塞进了她的包里。“好吧。你可以永远坐在这里，安静地、独自一人在你的书房里，拿着你的书，别人不能碰，再也不用你的魔法了。这对我来说很好。

His eyes narrowed as Hermione turned on her heel and marched to the door. On reaching it, she abruptly halted, hand on the handle, and looked down at her bag. Closing his book, Malfoy frowned as he watched her relinquish the handle to rummage inside her bag. Withdrawing some kind of silver package, she marched it over to his desk and tossed it so that it landed with a thump on the wooden surface. As it rolled towards him, Lucius uncrossed his legs and pushed his chair back slightly.
当赫敏转过身来，走向门口时，他眯起了眼睛。当她走到门口时，她突然停了下来，手放在把手上，低头看了看她的包。合上书，马尔福皱起眉头，看着她放下把手，在包里翻找。她掏出某种银包裹，把它带到他的桌子前，把它扔了出去，让它砰地一声落在木头上。当它向他滚来时，卢修斯松开了他的双腿，将他的椅子稍微向后推。

“It’s cake ,” she said in an angry tone that jarred with her words. “I brought it for Astoria so just give it to Draco when you see him. It won’t benefit you in any way but they’ll appreciate it.”
“这是蛋糕，”她用一种与她的话语相悖的愤怒语气说。“我把它带给阿斯托利亚的，所以当你看到德拉科时就把它交给他吧。它不会以任何方式对你有好处，但他们会感激的。

With that, she hauled the door open and slammed it shut behind her hard enough to make the bottles on his end table rattle. Lucius was relaxing back into his chair, eyeing the slab of wrapped cake in front of him with an expression of mild disgust, when he heard a muffled yelp of frustrated rage from down the hall. He stared at the door and then, curling his right hand into a fist and pressing the knuckle of his forefinger to his lips, he allowed himself a single, quiet snort of amusement before picking up his quill to resume his writing.  
说完，她把门拉开，砰的一声关上了，砰的一声关上了，以至于他茶几上的瓶子都发出了嘎嘎作响的声音。卢修斯正放松地坐回椅子上，用略带厌恶的表情盯着面前的一块包裹好的蛋糕，这时他听到大厅里传来一声沮丧的愤怒的低沉叫喊。他盯着门口，然后，右手捏成拳头，食指指节贴在嘴唇上，他让自己安静地哼了一声，然后拿起羽毛笔继续他的写作。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Don't worry, Malfoy's resistance (at least to their regular meetings) will stop eventually hahaha
别担心，马尔福的抵抗（至少对他们的定期会议）终究会停止哈哈哈

Chapter 7
第 7 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Draco attempts to talk Lucius around and Hermione and Ginny discuss the difficulties of dealing with a man like Lucius Malfoy.
德拉科试图说服卢修斯，赫敏和金妮讨论与卢修斯·马尔福这样的男人打交道的困难。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Honestly, thank you so much for the positive reactions to the last chapter! I was all aflutter. The portrait will be back a few times. I love her, as I love everyone that's been kind enough to read this.
老实说，非常感谢您对上一章的积极反应！我浑身发抖。肖像会回来几次。我爱她，就像我爱所有好心阅读这篇文章的人一样。

Hermione allowed herself a restrained scream of frustration into her hands when she was halfway down the corridor. He was a nightmare . A man his age using the silent treatment of all things. 
赫敏在走廊走到一半时，让自己克制地发出沮丧的尖叫。他简直是一场噩梦。一个他这个年纪的人，对万物无声处理。

“I did tell you!” called the portrait who had led her to Malfoy’s study. 
“我确实告诉过你了！”

“I tried ,” Hermione snapped as she passed, not wishing to stop to talk any longer than she had to. God forbid he overhear her lingering.
“我试过了，”赫敏在经过时厉声说，她不想停下来再多说一会儿。上帝保佑他偷听她徘徊不去。

Allowing her storming pace to slow slightly as she wound her way back through the manor, Hermione tried to ignore the annoying roiling in her stomach. Alright, so she had promised him something that she couldn’t give him right away. Really, she was aware that she shouldn’t have. But couldn’t he see that he might get what he wanted if he just helped her a little first? He was going to need to help her either way if he did want anything. Besides, he was the one who had been a Death Eater; he should be proving himself.
赫敏在蜿蜒穿过庄园时，让她暴风雨的步伐稍微放慢了一点，她试图无视她胃里恼人的翻腾。好吧，所以她答应了他一些她不能马上给他的东西。真的，她知道她不应该这样做。但是他难道看不到，如果他先帮助她一点，他可能会得到他想要的东西吗？如果他真的想要什么，他无论如何都需要帮助她。此外，他就是那个曾经是食死徒的人; 他应该证明自己。

The further she got from the study, the more a tide of embarrassment eroded Hermione’s anger and her internal self-justifications started to fade. She could barely believe that she had let him and his petulance get the best of her. Had she slammed the door? God . It was just that she’d spent so long on researching the stupid oral history and she wanted it to be right . To be thorough. 
她越是远离书房，一股尴尬的浪潮就越是侵蚀了赫敏的愤怒，她内心的自我辩解也开始消退。她几乎不敢相信，她竟然让他和他的任性占了上风。她关上了门吗？ 神。只是她花了这么长时间研究那些愚蠢的口述历史，她希望它是正确的。要彻底。

By the time she reached the entrance hall, Hermione wanted nothing more than to go home and eat a slab of the lemon cake she had made. As she descended the stairs, eyes fixed on the front door and freedom, Draco appeared in the entrance hall, looking in much better spirits than when he had left. 
当她到达门厅时，赫敏只想回家吃一块她做的柠檬蛋糕。当她走下楼梯时，眼睛盯着前门和自由，德拉科出现在门厅里，看起来比他离开时精神好多了。

“You made it through the hour!” he called up to her, clapping his hands and then stopping mid-step. “He’s not dead up there, is he?”
“你熬过了一个小时！”他向她喊道，拍了拍手，然后在半步中停了下来。“他没有死在那儿，对吧？”

“No,” Hermione grumbled, coming down the last of the stairs to meet him in the hall. “He sounds like he could be, though.”
“不，”赫敏抱怨着，从楼梯的最后一层走下来，在大厅里迎接他。“不过，他听起来可能是。”

Draco frowned. “What happened?”
德拉科皱起眉头。“发生了什么事？”

“I couldn’t get Kingsley to guarantee anything,” Hermione said, impatiently sweeping some hair from her forehead. “And you were right: your father wants assurances.”
“我没法让金斯莱保证什么，”赫敏说，不耐烦地扫了扫额头上的一些头发。“你是对的：你爸爸想要保证。”

“Well, what did Shacklebolt say?” Draco asked, his frown deepening as he folded his arms.
“嗯，沙克尔说了什么？”德拉科问道，他交叠着双臂，眉头皱得更深了。

“He said he’d see what he can do.”
“他说他会看看他能做什么。”

“But he didn’t say no?”
“但他没有说不？”

“Well, no, but he didn’t say yes either. So your father is out. We sat in silence for an hour because I was stupid enough to think that I could out-stubborn a man who is capable of clinging to patently ludicrous prejudices for multiple decades.”
“嗯，没有，但他也没有说是。所以你爸爸出去了。我们沉默地坐了一个小时，因为我愚蠢到认为我可以打败一个能够坚持几十年明显荒谬的偏见的人。

Draco pressed his lips together to form a thin line. “I’ll speak to him.”
德拉科把嘴唇紧紧地抿在一起，形成一条细线。“我会和他谈谈。”

“Malfoy I’m really not sure it’s even worth—”
“马尔福，我真的不确定这是否值得——”

“ I’ll speak to him,” he said more firmly. “Wait for my owl.”
“我会和他谈谈，”他更坚定地说。“等我的猫头鹰。”

Reluctant to fan the small spark of hope that Draco’s determined expression lit in her belly, Hermione nodded and changed the subject. “The appointment went okay?”
赫敏不愿意煽动德拉科坚定的表情在她肚子里点燃的希望之火，她点了点头，改变了话题。“预约还好吗？”

“Swimmingly,” Draco smiled. “Mother and baby are doing well. They’re still not entirely sure how Astoria’s blood curse will impact her after the birth but they’re satisfied at the moment.”
“游泳，”德拉科微笑着。“妈妈和宝宝都很好。他们仍然不完全确定阿斯托利亚的血诅咒在她出生后会有什么影响，但他们现在很满意。

“That’s wonderful news. I don’t like to say ‘I told you so’—”
“这是个好消息。我不喜欢说'我早就告诉过你了'——”

“Oh, you absolutely do Granger.”
“哦，你绝对喜欢格兰杰。”

“But I did tell you so,” Hermione finished with a soft smile. “I left some more lemon cake with your father.”
“但我确实告诉你了，”赫敏温柔地笑着说完。“我又给你爸爸留了一些柠檬蛋糕。”

Raising a single eyebrow, Draco turned his head sceptically. “He took the cake from you?”
Draco挑了挑眉毛，怀疑地转过头来。“他从你那里拿走了蛋糕？”

“He didn’t have a choice,” Hermione muttered darkly. “Anyway, I’ll be off. Don’t worry too much about your dad, Malfoy. If he’s really not interested in speaking to me, there’s no point in forcing the matter. That’s not really what this work is supposed to be about.”
“他别无选择，”赫敏阴沉地咕哝着。“不管怎样，我要走了。别太担心你爸爸，马尔福。如果他真的不想和我说话，那么强迫这件事就没有意义了。这并不是这件作品的真正意义所在。

With a wave over her shoulder, Hermione exited the manor looking far more dispirited than when she had entered it.
赫敏在肩膀上挥了挥手，走出了庄园，看起来比她进来时要沮丧得多。

“I hope you’re pleased with yourself.”
“我希望你对自己满意。”

Lucius Malfoy looked up from his parchment to see his son standing in the doorway to his office, hand on the doorknob and a very grim expression on his face. He was obviously talking about the Granger girl and Lucius allowed a corner of his lips to twitch upwards in vindictive amusement.
卢修斯·马尔福从羊皮纸上抬起头来，看到他的儿子站在办公室的门口，手扶着门把手，脸上露出非常严峻的表情。他显然在谈论格兰杰女孩，卢修斯让他的嘴角在报复性的逗乐中向上抽搐。

“I confess, I am.” 
“我承认，我是。”

“You actually are aren’t you?” Draco asked, disbelieving, as he stepped into the room and closed the door behind him. “You’re genuinely pleased that you pushed a twenty-six year old witch to the end of her tether.”
“你真的是，不是吗？”德拉科不敢置信地问道，他走进房间，关上了身后的门。“你真的很高兴你把一个二十六岁的女巫推到了她枷锁的尽头。”

Lucius rolled his eyes and set his quill down on his desk. Clearly he wasn’t going to be allowed to get much more done. “I have so few diversions these days, Draco. Indulge me.”
卢修斯翻了个白眼，把羽毛笔放在桌子上。显然，他不会被允许完成更多工作。“这些天我很少有消遣的地方，德拉科。放纵我吧。

Draco scoffed, making his way across the room towards the table of expensive whiskeys. Lucius eyed his son’s back as he lifted a bottle, read the label, and pulled out the cork with a pop . 
德拉科嗤之以鼻，穿过房间走向那桌昂贵的威士忌。卢修斯看着儿子的背影，他举起一个瓶子，读了看标签，啪的一声拔出了软木塞。

“You’re lucky she didn’t hex you,” Draco said, glancing over his shoulder. “Or punch you,” he added as a quiet afterthought. At that Lucius raised his eyebrows, though the idea that physical violence was something Mudbloods might often resort to didn’t especially surprise him. They would be comfortable rolling in the earth. 
“你很幸运，她没有对你下咒，”德拉科说，回头瞥了一眼他的肩膀。“或者打你一拳，”他事后悄悄地补充道。听到这话，卢修斯扬起了眉毛，尽管泥巴种可能经常采取身体暴力的想法并没有让他特别惊讶。他们会很舒服地在地上打滚。

Turning on his heel, Draco approached with two glasses of whiskey in hand, sliding one across the desk towards Lucius who accepted it without comment. Lifting the glass and estimating a generous three-finger measure, Lucius downed it all in one without a change in his expression. As he sat the glass down with a satisfied sigh, he saw his son looking at him with a small frown.
德拉科转过身来，手里拿着两杯威士忌走过来，其中一杯滑过桌子，走向卢修斯，卢修斯一言不发地接过了它。卢修斯举起酒杯，估算了一下慷慨的三指量量，一口气喝下了酒，表情没有变化。当他满意地叹息着坐下杯子时，他看到他的儿子皱着眉头看着他。

“What?” Lucius said, his tone on the edge of being snappish.
“什么？”卢修斯说，他的语气几乎显得生硬。

“Are you really not going to cooperate with her?” Draco asked, sinking into the chair that Granger had vacated.
“你真的不打算和她合作吗？”德拉科问道，一头扎进了格兰杰腾出的椅子上。

“She made promises she couldn’t keep and I didn’t make any promises at all. Don’t act as though I’m the one in the wrong.”
“她做出了她无法兑现的承诺，我根本没有做出任何承诺。别装作我是错的那个人。

“Shacklebolt didn’t turn her request down, though,” Draco said, lifting his forefinger from his glass to point it at his father. “If you behave yourself and help her with this, he might be swayed to do something for you.”
“不过，沙克尔没有拒绝她的请求，”德拉科说，从杯子里拿起食指，指向他的父亲。“如果你表现得好并帮助她，他可能会动摇为你做点什么。”

“I find it hard to be tempted by ‘maybe’s and ‘might be’s, Draco,” Lucius said, waving a dismissive hand. “I would rather retain the little dignity I have left than bare my soul to an undeserving Mudblood just for the mere chance of the taste of a crumb of freedom.”
“我发现很难被'也许'和'可能'所诱惑，德拉科，”卢修斯说，不屑一顾地挥了挥手。“我宁愿保留我所剩无几的尊严，也不愿把我的灵魂暴露给一个不配的泥巴种，只为了尝尝一粒自由的机会。”

Draco was quiet as he took a long drink. Lowering his glass and cradling it against his stomach, he tilted his head to give his father a piercing look. “Don’t you want to be able to visit mother?”
德拉科喝了一大口酒，很安静。他放下酒杯，把杯子贴在肚子上，歪着头狠狠地瞪了父亲一眼。“你不想去看望妈妈吗？”

Lucius’ nostrils flared and he clenched his teeth together momentarily. “Nothing is stopping her from visiting here ,” he said, his voice cold. “There never has been.”
卢修斯的鼻孔张开了，他瞬间咬紧了牙关。“没有什么能阻止她来这里，”他说，声音冰冷。“从来没有。”

“There’s nothing tempting her either,” Draco snapped, making his father blink rapidly. It was about as close as he would get to a flinch. Draco’s tone turned accusatory. “You’re giving up.” 
“也没有什么能诱惑她，”德拉科厉声说，让他的父亲迅速眨了眨眼。这差不多是他几乎要退缩的程度。德拉科的语气变成了指责。“你要放弃了。”

“I am not.”
“我不是。”

“Yes, you are. You’d rather cloister yourself in this study for the next half century or so than try anything that might improve your circumstances. Do you know how depressing that is to witness? From you of all people?”
“是的，你是。你宁愿在接下来的半个世纪左右的时间里把自己封闭在这项研究中，也不愿尝试任何可能改善你情况的事情。你知道目睹那件事有多令人沮丧吗？从你们所有人中出来的吗？

“I do not live to please you, Draco,” Lucius said, his voice quiet but simmering with anger.
“我活着不是为了取悦你，德拉科，”卢修斯说，他的声音很平静，但充满了愤怒。

“Obviously not,” Draco said, his patience worn thin, “but the least you could do is live to please yourself .”
“显然不是，”德拉科说，他的耐心逐渐消磨殆尽，“但你至少能做的就是活着取悦自己。

“I am fine.”
“我很好。”

“You’re miserable .” 
“你真可怜。”

“And you are my son ,” Lucius growled. “You have no right to speak to me in such a manner.”
“而你是我的儿子，”卢修斯咆哮道。“你没有权利用这种方式跟我说话。”

With a sigh, Draco sat whiskey on the table with more force than he intended. “I care about you, father.”
德拉科叹了口气，用比他想象的更大的力气把威士忌放在桌子上。“我很关心你，爸爸。”

Lucius had nothing to say to that but he shifted in his seat and broke eye contact with his son, a sign of his mild to extreme discomfort. The love had always been there between the Malfoys; it was just rarely verbally expressed. As was proper. Astoria had ruined that with all her well-intentioned declarations and conversations. Lucius could still remember the first time she’d attempted to instigate a ‘heart-to-heart’, as she’d called it. The look on her face when he’d told her he didn’t have one was a memory he cherished. The resultant telling off he got from Draco he cherished less.
卢修斯对此无话可说，但他在座位上挪动了一下，中断了与儿子的眼神交流，这是他轻微到极度不适的迹象。马尔福夫妇之间的爱一直存在;只是很少用口头表达。这是正确的。阿斯托利亚用她所有善意的声明和对话毁掉了这一点。卢修斯仍然记得她第一次试图煽动她所说的“心连心”是什么时候。当他告诉她他没有口罩时，她脸上的表情是他珍惜的回忆。他从德拉科那里得到的告别让他不那么珍惜了。

“Can’t you just try co-operating with Granger?” Draco pleaded. “You might get something of your old life back if you do. And if it starts to look like you won’t, you can just...drop out. Withdraw your consent.”
“你就不能试试和格兰杰合作吗？”德拉科恳求道。“如果你这样做了，你可能会找回一些以前的生活。如果它开始看起来你不会，你可以......退出。撤回您的同意。

“As though she’d allow that to happen once she had me in her claws.”
“就好像一旦她把我抓在爪子里，她就会允许这种情况发生。”

“She’d have to,” Draco said, lifting his glass to take another gulp of whiskey and wincing as it burned on its way down. “She’s all ethical and stuff. Hates the idea of wronging anyone. Ranted about it for ages before she interviewed me.”
“她得这么做，”德拉科说，举起酒杯又喝了一口威士忌，当威士忌在喝下去的时候，他皱起了眉头。“她很有道德。讨厌冤枉任何人的想法。在她采访我之前，我为此咆哮了很长时间。

“Does she do that often?”
“她经常这样做吗？”

Draco didn’t miss the tired apprehension in his father’s voice and couldn’t stop the small smile that came to his lips; Granger probably came close to a living nightmare for Lucius Malfoy.
德拉科没有错过他父亲声音中疲惫的忧虑，也挡不住他嘴角的一丝微笑;格兰杰可能差点成为卢修斯·马尔福的活生生的噩梦。

“Do what?”
“做什么？”

“ Rant ,” Lucius said impatiently.
“咆哮，”卢修斯不耐烦地说。

“She can do,” Draco shrugged. “If you push the wrong buttons. The stick she’s got up her arse is kind of different to the one you’ve got up yours, so it might take you some time to figure out what those are.”
“她能做到，”德拉科耸耸肩。“如果你按错了按钮。她插在屁股上的棍子和你插在屁股上的棍子有点不同，所以你可能需要一些时间来弄清楚那些是什么。

“Draco.” Lucius’ voice was low with warning and utterly devoid of amusement but Draco was pleased and slightly giddy; they were having the most frank conversation they’d had in months, maybe even years. He’d missed it. He’d have to send Granger flowers.
“德拉科。”卢修斯的声音低沉而警告，完全没有乐趣，但德拉科很高兴，略带头晕;他们正在进行几个月，甚至几年来最坦率的对话。他错过了。他得给格兰杰送花。

“I’ll write to her and invite her back,” Draco pushed. “You don’t have to.” 
“我会写信给她，邀请她回来，”德拉科推搡道。“你不必这样做。”

Lucius didn’t say anything. Instead he opened a drawer in his desk and retrieved a foil wrapped package from within. Depositing it on the wooden surface with a sneer of distaste, he pushed it towards his son with the tip of his finger. 
卢修斯什么也没说。相反，他打开了书桌上的一个抽屉，从里面拿出了一个用铝箔包裹的包裹。他不满地一笑，将它放在木头上，用指尖把它推向儿子。

“She left this. For you.” 
“她离开了这个。为了你。

Reaching across the table, Draco grabbed the cake with a pleased smile and lifted it into his lap. “Do you want to try some?” he asked, pointing down at it. “It’s very good.”
Draco伸手越过桌子，带着满意的笑容抓住蛋糕，把它举到他的腿上。“你想尝尝吗？” 他指着它问道。“这非常好。”

Lucius gave him a look that suggested he’d rather choke and Draco sighed, shaking his head. “I’ll write to her. We’ll give this one more try.”
卢修斯看了他一眼，似乎他宁愿窒息，德拉科叹了口气，摇了摇头。“我会写信给她。我们会再试一次。

To his relief, though Lucius didn’t consent, he also didn’t protest. Draco suspected it was because he was already formulating a plan to ruin the next meeting but that was Granger’s problem, not his.
令他松了一口气的是，虽然卢修斯不同意，但他也没有抗议。德拉科怀疑这是因为他已经在制定一个破坏下一次会议的计划，但那是格兰杰的问题，不是他的问题。

When Hermione arrived home and closed her front door behind her with a tired sigh, she vaguely wondered whether she had any of that red wine left in the cupboard and if it would pair well with a huge slab of lemon cake. It seemed like a stretch but she had the kind of pain forming in her head that could only be cured by questionable food choices.
当赫敏回到家，疲惫地叹了口气关上前门时，她隐约想知道她橱柜里有没有留下那杯红酒，它是否能与一大块柠檬蛋糕搭配。这似乎有点牵强，但她的脑海中形成了那种痛苦，只有通过有问题的食物选择才能治愈。

Stepping into the kitchen, Hermione came to an abrupt halt when she saw that the cake she had made was no longer on the counter where she had left it. Frowning, Hermione half-turned in the doorway when she heard the clink of cutlery meeting porcelain from the living room. 
走进厨房，赫敏看到她做的蛋糕已经不在她放下的柜台上，戛然而止。赫敏皱着眉头，在门口半转身，这时她听到了客厅里餐具与瓷器相遇的叮当声。

Ginny Potter was reclined on her sofa, a plate piled with cake balanced on her growing belly while she delicately picked at it with a fork. On the coffee table, Hermione spied the rest of the cake in the tin in which she’d placed it that morning. 
金妮·波特斜靠在沙发上，一个堆满蛋糕的盘子在她不断增长的肚子上保持平衡，而她则用叉子小心翼翼地挑选着它。在咖啡桌上，赫敏在她那天早上放蛋糕的罐子里偷偷摸摸地吃了蛋糕。

“My mouse problem has gotten a lot more human, it seems,” Hermione said drily.  
“看来，我的老鼠问题变得更像人了，”赫敏冷淡地说。

Ginny jumped and swore at the unexpected sound of Hermione’s voice, catching her plate before it could slide onto the floor. 
金妮听到赫敏出乎意料的声音，跳了起来，咒骂着，在她的盘子滑到地板上之前接住了她的盘子。

“I’m sorry,” she said with a grimace. “I ate all the cake you brought last week and I sensed that you had more.”
“对不起，”她做了个鬼脸说。“我吃掉了你上周带来的所有蛋糕，我感觉到你吃得更多。”

“ How ?”
“怎么？”

“I honestly don’t know, I just felt it. A sixth sense.” Ginny shrugged and ate another forkful of cake. “In my stomach. And then I decided to hang around because my mum is looking after James and it’s so quiet in your flat. Do you know how quiet it is in your flat?”
“老实说，我不知道，我只是感觉到了。第六感。金妮耸耸肩，又吃了一叉蛋糕。“在我的肚子里。然后我决定四处闲逛，因为我妈妈在照顾 James，而且你的公寓里很安静。你知道你公寓里有多安静吗？

Slinking into the room, Hermione dropped her bag onto the floor and collapsed onto the sofa beside Ginny with her eyes closed. There was a brief pause and a sweet lemony smell drifted under Hermione’s nose. When she opened her eyes, she found that Ginny had lifted the plate of cake up to her face. 
赫敏溜进房间，把包丢在地板上，闭着眼睛瘫倒在金妮旁边的沙发上。短暂的停顿，一股甜美的柠檬味在赫敏的鼻子下飘荡。当她睁开眼睛时，她发现金妮已经把蛋糕盘举到了她的脸上。

“You look like you need some,” she said gently.
“你看起来需要一些，”她温柔地说。

With a sideways glare in Ginny’s direction, Hermione picked up a loose lump of cake and dropped it into her mouth. “I do.”
赫敏侧头瞪了金妮一眼，捡起一块松散的蛋糕，丢进了嘴里。“我愿意。”

“Where were you?”
“你在哪儿？”

“Malfoy Manor.”
“马尔福庄园。”

Ginny’s expression darkened. “Oh.” She withdrew the plate of cake to cradle it protectively between her chest and stomach. “So you did meet him, then?”
金妮的脸色变得阴沉起来。“哦。”她抽出那盘蛋糕，把它安全地抱在她的胸口和腹部之间。“那么，你真的见过他吗？”

Hermione nodded wearily.
赫敏疲惫地点点头。

“Based on your general demeanour I’m going to guess that he’s just as much of a knob as he’s always been.”
“根据你的一般举止，我猜他和以前一样是个笨蛋。”

“ Ding ding ,” Hermione said. “Correct. You don’t win a prize.” 
“叮叮，”赫敏说。“是的。你不会赢得奖品。

“Thought so,” Ginny said through a mouthful of cake. “Merlin forbid a Malfoy be humbled.” 
“是这么想的，”金妮含着一口蛋糕说。“梅林禁止马尔福谦卑。”

Nodding in agreement, Hermione rolled her head to the side to fix Ginny with a pleading look. “I’m going to tell you something and I don’t want you to be angry at me.”
赫敏点头表示同意，然后把头转向一边，用恳求的眼神看着金妮。“我要告诉你一些事情，我不想让你对我生气。”

“Why would you say the word ‘angry’ and therefore make me think of anger if you don’t want me to be angry Hermione?” Ginny asked, her eyes wide. “Honestly, show some sense.” Ginny eyed her penitent friend speculatively. “Go on then, what have you done?”
“如果你不想让我生气，你为什么还要说'生气'这个词，从而让我想起生气呢，赫敏？”金妮睁大了眼睛问道。“老实说，表现出一些理智。”金妮投机地看着她忏悔的朋友。“那么，你做了什么？”

Wearing a thoroughly and appropriately remorseful expression, Hermione explained the request she’d made of Kingsley and the events of her meetings with Lucius Malfoy to Ginny, whose own face did not move through the entire story. Hermione noted, however, that the pace of her cake eating markedly increased.
赫敏带着彻底而恰当的懊悔表情，向金妮解释了她对金斯莱的要求以及她与卢修斯·马尔福会面的事件，而金妮自己的面孔在整个故事中都没有移动。然而，赫敏注意到她吃蛋糕的速度明显加快了。

“I’m not angry,” Ginny said soothingly, though Hermione sensed a biting undertone that grew worse as her friend went on. “I just don’t understand why you’d want to give that pale, pompous arsehole a single inch after everything he’s done! But I’m not angry .”
“我不生气，”金妮安抚地说，尽管赫敏感觉到一种尖锐的语气，随着她朋友的继续，这种语气越来越严重。“我就是不明白你为什么要在他做完所有事情后给那个苍白、浮夸的屁眼一英寸！但我不生气。

Raising an eyebrow, Hermione gave Ginny a thoroughly sceptical look. “Okay,” Ginny acknowledged, pointing her fork in Hermione’s direction. “I am a bit angry. But, honestly, you look so pathetic I’m struggling to work it up into anything significant. And the cake is helping. If I kill you, I don’t get any more. It’s really that simple.”
赫敏挑了挑眉毛，彻底怀疑地看了金妮一眼。“好吧，”金妮承认道，用叉子指着赫敏的方向。“我有点生气。但是，老实说，你看起来太可怜了，我正在努力把它变成任何重要的事情。蛋糕是有帮助的。如果我杀了你，我就得不到更多了。真的就是这么简单。

“I thought if I offered him something he’s likely to want, he’d give me what I want.”
“我想，如果我给他他可能想要的东西，他就会给我我想要的东西。”

“I don’t know why you didn’t just lie to him.”
“我不知道你为什么不直接对他撒谎。”

Frowning, Hermione pushed herself up to sit slightly straighter and fixed Ginny with a curious stare. “What?”
赫敏皱着眉头，把自己撑起来，稍微坐直了一点，用好奇的目光注视着金妮。“什么？”

“When he asked what Kingsley said,” Ginny said as though she was explaining something extremely basic to someone who was being maddeningly obtuse, “you should have just told him what he wanted to hear. ‘Yes, you monstrous blonde prick, if you do this you’ll get your wand back and you’ll be as free as a bird.’ Easy.”
“当他问金斯莱说了什么时，”金妮说，仿佛她在向一个疯狂的迟钝的人解释一些非常基本的事情，“你应该直接告诉他他想听的话。是的，你这个可怕的金发小混蛋，如果你这样做了，你就会拿回你的魔杖，你会像鸟一样自由。很简单。

“I couldn’t do that.”
“我不能那样做。”

“Why? We both know he’d do that.”
“为什么？我们都知道他会那样做。

“Did you just hear yourself? You used the likely behaviour of Lucius Malfoy as a justification for why I should do something.”
“你刚才听到了吗？你用卢修斯·马尔福可能的行为作为我为什么要做某事的理由。

“Don’t tell me you’d feel bad about doing it, Hermione.” Ginny’s lips were curled into a doubtful smirk and Hermione shifted uncomfortably. “Not to him.”
“别告诉我你这样做会觉得很糟糕，赫敏。”金妮的嘴唇弯成一个疑惑的笑容，赫敏不舒服地动了动。“对他来说不是。”

“Well, it wouldn’t really be right, would it?”
“嗯，这真的不对，对吧？”

Clearing her throat, Ginny lowered her fork and placed it on her plate with the purpose of a woman about to deliver a stirring speech. “Was it right when he supported Voldemort? Or when he slipped that Horcrux into my cauldron? Or when he hunted us through the Department of Mysteries? Or when he stood back and allowed you to be tortured—” 
清了清嗓子，金妮放下叉子，把它放在她的盘子里，目的是一个即将发表激动人心的演讲的女人。“他支持伏地魔是对的吗？或者当他把魂器塞进我的大锅里时？或者当他通过神秘事务司追捕我们时？或者当他退后一步，任由你受折磨时——”

Hermione held her hand up. “Alright, alright. Good point, well made.”
赫敏举起了手。“好吧，好吧。说得好，做得很好。

“Honestly, Hermione, fuck him,” Ginny spat, lifting her fork again and stabbing it into the air as though Lucius Malfoy was right in front of her. “I’d have told him whatever he wanted to hear and used him for all he’s worth—which, by the way, is very little. It’s what he’d do and, more to the point, it’s what he deserves.”
“老实说，赫敏，操他，”金妮啐了一口，再次举起她的叉子，把它刺向空中，仿佛卢修斯·马尔福就在她面前。“他想听什么我就告诉他什么，然后用他的一切价值——顺便说一句，这可不值一提。这是他会做的，更重要的是，这是他应得的。

Ginny’s logic was ruthless but Hermione found she couldn’t entirely disagree with it. If she’d only been more willing to lead Lucius Malfoy on a merry dance, she might already be on the road to having what she wanted. The problem was, she wouldn’t feel good about it. It wouldn’t be right . While Hermione contemplated the hurdle of her own soft-heartedness, an owl appeared at her living room window and began tapping at the glass. 
金妮的逻辑很无情，但赫敏发现她不能完全不同意。如果她更愿意带领卢修斯·马尔福跳一场快乐的舞蹈，她可能已经走上了拥有她想要的东西的道路上。问题是，她不会对此感到好受。这不对。当赫敏思考自己心软的障碍时，一只猫头鹰出现在她客厅的窗户前，开始敲打玻璃。

She and Ginny shared a curious look before twisting in the direction of the window as the tapping became more insistent. After a brief delay in which she registered what she was seeing, Hermione jumped to her feet. It was Draco’s owl.
她和金妮好奇地看了一眼，然后随着敲击声变得更加坚持，她扭向窗户的方向。在她记录了她所看到的短暂延迟后，赫敏跳了起来。那是德拉科的猫头鹰。

“Eager,” Ginny murmured, tucking her feet in as Hermione clambered over her to get to the window. 
“急切，”金妮喃喃自语，在赫敏爬过她爬到窗户前时，她把脚塞进去。

The owl hopped onto the windowsill and patiently waited for Hermione to untie the letter it was carrying. She thanked it with a small pat on its head and allowed it to fly away before tearing open the parchment.
猫头鹰跳到窗台上，耐心地等着赫敏解开它手里的信。她轻轻拍了拍它的头，感谢它，让它飞走了，然后撕开了羊皮纸。

“Granger,
“格兰杰，

Come back at the same time next week. We can give this one more try. Please.
下周同一时间回来。我们可以再试一次。请。

D. Malfoy.” 
D. 马尔福。

“Well, what does it say?” Ginny asked, craning her neck as though she might be able to see through the parchment.
“嗯，上面写了什么？”金妮问道，伸长脖子，仿佛她能看穿羊皮纸。

Hermione looked up with a triumphant smile. “It says this isn’t over.”
赫敏抬起头来，露出得意的笑容。“它说这还没有结束。”

Ginny groaned aloud and rolled her neck so that her head was pressed back against the sofa cushion behind her. “You are a glutton for punishment, Hermione Granger.”
金妮大声呻吟着，扭动着脖子，使她的头向后压在身后的沙发垫上。“你是个贪吃惩罚的人，赫敏·格兰杰。”

Chapter 8
第八章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Malfoy have their third meeting and Hermione decides to do some more research.
赫敏和马尔福进行了第三次会面，赫敏决定再做一些研究。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Update for this coming week hitting you on a Sunday instead of mid-week because time management constraints! We work with what we got, I guess. Thanks everyone for being so kind about this story!
由于时间管理限制，下周的更新将在周日而不是周中发送给您！我想，我们用我们所拥有的来工作。感谢大家对这个故事的友好态度！

May 11th
5月11日

“Third time’s the charm,” Hermione said with a toothy grin in the direction of a reluctantly amused Draco Malfoy. 
“第三次是魅力所在，”赫敏对着不情愿地被逗乐的德拉科·马尔福咧嘴一笑。

Once again, she was standing on the front steps of Malfoy Manor, leather satchel slung over her shoulder while the spring sun shone on her back. Technically, this was going to be her third meeting with Lucius Malfoy but she had decided to think of it as their first official meeting. A fresh start. 
她又一次站在马尔福庄园的台阶上，皮包挎在肩上，春日的阳光照在她的背上。从技术上讲，这将是她与卢修斯·马尔福的第三次会面，但她决定将其视为他们的第一次正式会面。一个新的开始。

“Dial down the optimism before you go up there,” Draco said drily, stepping back to welcome her into the hall. “He’ll take it as a challenge.”
“在你上去之前，先把乐观情绪调低一点，”德拉科干巴巴地说，一边退后一步欢迎她进大厅。“他会把它当作一个挑战。”

“I watched footage of flowing water for forty-five minutes before coming here.”
“在来到这里之前，我看了 45 分钟的流水镜头。”

They began to climb the stairs together, Draco throwing Hermione a curious sidelong look as they went. “Er, why?”
他们开始一起爬楼梯，德拉科在他们走的时候好奇地侧头看了赫敏一眼。“呃，为什么？”

“I read somewhere that it makes you serene.”
“我在某处读到，它让你感到平静。”

“Sounds more like a good way to end up needing the loo to me,” he muttered.
“听起来更像是我最终需要厕所的好方法，”他咕哝道。

“Yes,” Hermione said vaguely. “It’s also actually quite annoying; I don’t think meditation is for me.”
“是的，”赫敏含糊地说。“这实际上也很烦人;我认为冥想不适合我。

“I could have told you that, Granger. Really glad you riled yourself up before coming here - such a great idea.”
“我本来可以告诉你的，格兰杰。真的很高兴你在来这里之前激怒了自己——真是个好主意。

“Well, that wasn’t my intention,” Hermione snapped. 
“嗯，那不是我的本意，”赫敏厉声说。

Draco raised his eyebrows at her with a pointed look and she closed her mouth with a click of her teeth, a frustrated blush rising on her cheeks. 
德拉科用尖锐的眼神看着她扬起眉毛，她咔嚓一声咬住了嘴，脸颊上泛起了沮丧的红晕。

“Should I sit in again?”
“我应该再坐一次吗？”

Hermione considered his offer and then shook her head. “No...no. I think perhaps it should just be us. I know he’s your father but having an audience can sometimes make people either hold back or perform. I don’t want him to do that.”
赫敏考虑了一下他的提议，然后摇了摇头。“不......不。我想也许应该只是我们。我知道他是你的父亲，但有观众有时会让人们要么退缩，要么表演。我不希望他那样做。

“Are you sure about that?”
“你确定吗？”

She shot him a grim smile, “Unfortunately, yes.”
她向他露出一个严肃的笑容，“很遗憾，是的。

“Alright then, Granger.” They stopped outside of the study and Draco swept his arm towards the door. “Have fun.” Shoving his hands into his pockets, he turned lightly on his heel and strolled back down the corridor with the carefree gait of a man who had just been gifted an afternoon free of sniping. 
“好吧，格兰杰。”他们在书房外停了下来，德拉科用手臂扫向门口。“玩得开心。”他把手口袋，轻轻地转过身来，以一个刚刚被赐予一个没有狙击的下午的男人的无忧无虑的步态沿着走廊走回去。

Knocking sharply on the door, Hermione didn’t wait for a response before opening it and walking into the room. She stopped short, a puzzled expression on her face as she looked at the desk. There was no one there. Pulling her chin down towards her neck with a frown, Hermione fractionally bent her knees as though preparing to look under the desk.
赫敏猛地敲了敲门，不等回应，就打开门走进了房间。她停了下来，看着桌子，脸上露出困惑的表情。那里没有人。赫敏皱着眉头，把下巴往脖子上拉，微微弯曲了膝盖，仿佛准备看看桌子下面。

“Looking for something, Miss Granger?”
“找什么东西，格兰杰小姐？”

Hermione jumped to attention at the sound of the voice and spun to the right, finding Lucius Malfoy standing by his bookcase on the other side of the room, a book balanced open in his right hand while his left hovered over the pages.
赫敏听到这个声音，猛地转过身来，向右转身，发现卢修斯·马尔福站在房间另一边的书架旁，右手拿着一本书，左手悬停在书页上。

“Oh,” she said, pointing in the direction of his desk and then at him, “But you’re...I didn’t think…”
“哦，”她说，指着他桌子的方向，然后指着他，“但你......我没想过......”

Hermione trailed off, feeling rather stupid as Malfoy’s eyebrows rose up his forehead expectantly. With one hand, he snapped the book closed and returned it to the shelf without taking his eyes from her. What was she going to say? ‘Oh, I thought you only existed in that portion of the room’? Or, ‘Don’t you disintegrate when you move beyond the rug’?
赫敏慢慢走开，当马尔福的眉毛期待地扬起他的额头时，她觉得自己相当愚蠢。他用一只手啪地合上了书，然后把它放回书架上，目光没有从她身上移开。她要说什么呢？“哦，我以为你只存在于房间的那个部分”？“或者，”当你走出地毯时，你不会瓦解吗“？

“Never mind,” Hermione muttered, moving towards her usual chair. “Good afternoon, Mr Malfoy.”
“没关系，”赫敏咕哝着，走向她平常的椅子。“下午好，马尔福先生。”

Sinking into her seat, Hermione bent forwards to open her bag and began pulling out her Wheezebox, quill and parchment. From behind her, she heard the sound of Malfoy crossing the room and she instinctively stiffened when he passed her, coming close enough to send a gust of air that smelled faintly of bergamot in her direction. For some reason, it made her shiver. She preferred it when there was a desk between them.
赫敏一头扎进座位上，弯下腰打开她的包，开始掏出她的喘息盒、羽毛笔和羊皮纸。从她身后，她听到了马尔福穿过房间的声音，当他从她身边经过时，她本能地僵硬了起来，靠得足够近，将一阵散发着淡淡佛手柑气味的空气吹向了她的方向。不知为何，这让她不寒而栗。她更喜欢他们之间有一张桌子的时候。

Sure enough, when he slipped quietly into his chair across from her, Hermione’s shoulders descended an inch or so and the ball of tension in her stomach unwound a degree. She straightened up and arranged her equipment on his desk, avoiding his gaze all the while. 
果然，当他悄悄地溜到她对面的椅子上时，赫敏的肩膀下降了一英寸左右，她肚子里的紧绷球也舒展了一度。她直起身来，把她的设备放在他的桌子上，一直避开他的目光。

“I understand that you weren’t entirely comfortable with the idea of the voice recorder,” Hermione said, fixing her quill into a point on a fresh sheet of parchment. “But I’m happy to do a test and show you how it works. Would you prefer that?”
“我知道你对录音机这个想法并不完全满意，”赫敏说，一边把她的羽毛笔固定在一张新羊皮纸上的一个尖上。“但我很乐意做一个测试，向你展示它是如何工作的。你喜欢吗？

His expression didn’t tell her much at all but deciding she would prefer it if he knew exactly what he was getting into, Hermione touched the Wheezebox with her wand and slid it into the middle of the table. 
他的表情根本没有告诉她什么，但决定她宁愿他确切地知道自己要做什么，赫敏用魔杖碰了碰喘息盒，把它滑到了桌子的中间。

“You can just say something to it,” she prompted. “Anything really.”
“你可以对它说点什么，”她提示道。“真的，任何事情。”

He raised a single eyebrow and offered her one, slow blink that distinctly told her he would do nothing of the sort and he thought her a fool for even trying to persuade him. Hermione sighed.
他扬起一根眉毛，缓缓地眨了眨眼，显然告诉她他不会做这种事情，他认为她是个傻瓜，连试图说服他都行。赫敏叹了口气。

“Okay, I will. Test, test. Testing.”
“好的，我会的。测试，测试。测试。

Reaching out, Hermione touched it with her wand again and Malfoy watched closely as she performed two shorter taps to play the sound of what she had just said back to him.
赫敏伸出手，再次用魔杖碰了碰它，马尔福仔细地看着她轻敲了两下，以播放她刚刚对他说的话。

“That’s really all it is. Are you happy with that?”
“真的就是这样。你满意吗？

He didn’t look happy but he inclined his head slowly and Hermione exhaled, smiling.
他看起来并不高兴，但他慢慢地歪了歪头，赫敏微笑着呼出一口气。

“Good! Great, alright then. Let’s begin.” Hermione returned the voice recorder to the desk and tapped it, shifting in her seat to get comfortable. “So, Mr Malfoy, generally in interviews I start by asking fairly casual questions. That’s primarily just to warm things up and get you used to the kind of speaking and recollection you’ll be doing. You live in Malfoy Manor where our interview is taking place; were you raised here?”
“很好！太好了，好吧。让我们开始吧。赫敏把录音机放回桌子上，敲了敲它，在座位上挪动了一下，让自己舒服些。“所以，马尔福先生，一般来说，在采访中，我都会问一些相当随意的问题。这主要是为了让事情暖和起来，让你习惯你将要做的那种说话和回忆。你住在马尔福庄园，我们的采访正在进行那里;你在这里长大吗？

“Yes.” 
“是的。”

Hermione felt a flood of relief at the sound of his voice, clipped and displeased as it was. It was jarring to want to hear Lucius Malfoy speak.
赫敏听到他的声音，感到如潮水般地松了一口气，尽管它很尖锐，也很不悦。想听卢修斯·马尔福说话真是令人不安。

“Can you tell me something about your childhood here?”
“你能跟我说说你在这里的童年吗？”

A taut silence stretched out and Hermione could tell that Malfoy wasn’t going to respond, either because he did not want to or because he wasn’t sure what to say. Giving him the benefit of the doubt and working on the assumption of the latter, Hermione attempted to show understanding.
一阵紧绷的沉默持续了下来，赫敏看得出来马尔福不打算回答，要么是他不想回答，要么是因为他不知道该说什么。赫敏给了他怀疑的好处，并努力假设后者，试图表现出理解。

“You don’t have to go into any particular detail, Mr Malfoy. Sometimes just some vague memories, particular sights or smells can be evocative.”
“你不必详细讨论任何细节，马尔福先生。有时，只是一些模糊的记忆、特定的景象或气味就可以唤起人们的共鸣。

More silence in which his eyes trailed over her, judgmentally taking in her curls and the floaty arms of her loose-fitting peasant blouse. Probably not the best style to wear around him in retrospect. Her only comfort was that he probably didn’t have the requisite Muggle fashion knowledge to put a name to it himself. 
更多的寂静中，他的目光在她身上扫过，评判性地看着她的卷发和她宽松的农民衬衫飘逸的手臂。回想起来，这可能不是最适合在他身边穿的款式。她唯一的安慰是，他可能没有必要的麻瓜时尚知识来给它起个名字。

“Perhaps you’d like to ask me about my childhood?” Hermione offered. “Sometimes a bit of back and forth can make this feel like more of an equitable relationship. I understand it can feel like I’m pressing you for information and I don’t want that to be the case. I’m more than happy to share with you.”
“也许你想问我关于我的童年？”赫敏提议道。“有时，一点来回会让这感觉更像是一种公平的关系。我理解感觉就像我在催促你提供信息，我不希望这种情况发生。我非常高兴与您分享。

“I don’t particularly care to know anything about your miserable little Muggle life, Miss Granger.”
“我不是特别想知道你那悲惨的小麻瓜生活，格兰杰小姐。”

Hermione pressed her tongue against the roof of her mouth, repressing a million angry retorts. Running water, running water, running water . 
赫敏用舌头抵住她的上颚，压抑着一百万个愤怒的反驳。 流水、流水、流水。

“Very well, Mr Malfoy. Rather than me asking those more narrow questions, why don’t we open it up? Why don’t you tell me what you’re willing to tell me about the childhood you spent here?” 
“很好，马尔福先生。与其我问那些更狭隘的问题，不如我们打开它呢？你为什么不告诉我你愿意告诉我你在这里度过的童年的事情呢？

“There’s very little I wish you to know about my boyhood. That it was spent here is a matter of public record, so I will own to that. I do not understand what that part of my life has to do with the war or why you would include it in your book.”
“我希望你了解的关于我的童年的事情很少。它在这里度过是一个公共记录问题，所以我将承认这一点。我不明白我生命中的那一部分与战争有什么关系，也不明白你为什么要把它写在你的书里。

“I won’t include all of it in the book, you’re right,” Hermione nodded. “But some of it might make its way in for a bit of…background.” 
“我不会把它们都写进书里，你说得对，”赫敏点点头。“但其中一些可能会进入一点......背景。

When he didn’t look convinced, Hermione sighed and crossed, then uncrossed her legs. “Mr Malfoy, the context of who you were before the war, how you were raised, is important to understanding the person you were during it and who you are now that it’s over. I’m here to record your lived experience but I don’t think that’s the kind of thing that can be easily isolated. It’s…connective tissue. That’s why I ask questions that go so far back.”
当他看起来不服气时，赫敏叹了口气，交叉了一下，然后松开了她的双腿。“马尔福先生，你在战前的身份，你是如何长大的，对于理解你在战时的身份以及现在的你是谁很重要。我在这里记录你的生活经历，但我不认为那种可以轻易孤立的事情。它。。。结缔组织。这就是为什么我提出的问题可以追溯到很久以前。

Lucius looked down at the Wheezebox and then up at her. “Miss Granger, I don’t have a pensieve. Do you know why that is?”
卢修斯低头看了看 Wheezebox，然后又抬头看了看她。“格兰杰小姐，我没有钢笔。你知道为什么吗？

Hermione shook her head, thrown by his sudden shift in topic. He leaned forward, elbows on the arms of his chair and hands clasped. “It is because I am protective of my privacy. I keep myself to myself. I do not want my life to be observed by third parties. I have no desire to be understood .” He said the last word with a disdainful dip in his voice. “And I do not want to seek public penance.”
赫敏摇了摇头，被他突然的话题转移吓了一跳。他身体前倾，手肘搭在椅子扶手上，双手紧握。“这是因为我保护自己的隐私。我把自己留给自己。我不希望我的生活被第三方观察。我不想被理解。他说完最后一个字时，声音里带着轻蔑的低沉。“我不想寻求公开的忏悔。”

The sound of the Quick Quotes Quill scratching out his words was the only sound as Hermione mulled over them. He was so certain about what he didn’t want. “Then what do you want?” Hermione asked quietly. 
Quick Quotes Quill 划出他的话的声音是赫敏仔细考虑时唯一的声音。他对自己不想要的东西非常确定。“那你想要什么？”赫敏轻声问道。

Lucius said nothing, unclasping his hands to lean his chin on his fist as he considered her with an appraising look. She didn’t get the impression that he was angry at her, incredibly—he seemed more thoughtful than anything, as though that was a question he had not been asked or even pondered in a long time.
卢修斯什么也没说，松开双手，将下巴靠在拳头上，用赞赏的眼神打量着她。她没有觉得他对她生气，难以置信——他似乎比什么都深思熟虑，仿佛这是一个他很久没有被问过甚至没有思考过的问题。

“That’s really none of your business,” he finally answered. “Like most of the things you ask.”
“那真的不关你的事，”他终于回答。“就像你问的大多数事情一样。”

“I don’t think you know,” Hermione said. “Do you?”
“我想你不知道，”赫敏说。“是吗？”

Again, Lucius made no reply, his face impassive, but Hermione didn’t miss the way the fist holding up his chin tightened fractionally, the tendons on the back of his hand tautening.
卢修斯又一次没有回答，他的脸上无动于衷，但赫敏没有错过托住他下巴的拳头微微收紧，手背上的肌腱绷紧的样子。

“Maybe if you do this – maybe if you bring your freedom a little closer – you’ll figure it out.”
“也许如果你这样做——也许如果你把你的自由拉近一点——你就会弄清楚。”

Crossing her fingers in her lap and pressing her toes down flat in her trainers, Hermione hoped against hope that he wouldn’t throw her out. She had pushed her luck with him there, she knew that. That was, however, the nature of interviewing people, particularly people like Lucius Malfoy – sometimes you had to push your luck, push them , to get what you wanted.
赫敏把手指交叉在膝盖上，脚趾平压在运动鞋里，希望他不会把她扔出去。她在那里和他一起推了她的运气，她知道这一点。然而，这就是采访人的本质，尤其是像卢修斯·马尔福这样的人——有时你得逼运气，逼他们，才能得到你想要的东西。

“Continue with your questions, Miss Granger,” he eventually said, his voice and his brows low. “Just remember that I do not need to answer them.”
“继续你的问题，格兰杰小姐，”他终于说了，他的声音和眉毛都低垂着。“只要记住，我不需要回答他们。”

Heart skipping a beat with relief, Hermione relaxed into her seat. “Why don’t you tell me about your parents?” Hermione noticed his eyebrow rise and realised she’d probably picked another dead end. Conversing with him was like being in a labyrinth. “What was your father’s name?”
心脏松了一口气，赫敏放松地坐在座位上。“你为什么不告诉我你父母的事？”赫敏注意到他的眉毛上扬，意识到她可能又走了一条死胡同。与他交谈就像置身于迷宫中。“你爸爸叫什么名字？”

“Abraxas Malfoy.” 
“阿布拉克萨斯·马尔福。”

Another matter of public record, obviously, Hermione thought bitterly.
另一件公开记录的事情，显然，赫敏苦涩地想着。

“And your mother?”
“那妈呢？”

To her surprise, Lucius looked somewhat reluctant, like he actually wasn’t going to tell her his mother’s name even though Hermione was sure that was bound to be yet another matter of public record that she could easily uncover on her own. Finally, however, he said, “Aurelia. Her name was Aurelia Malfoy.”
令她惊讶的是，卢修斯看起来有些不情愿，就像他真的不打算告诉她他妈妈的名字一样，尽管赫敏很确定这注定是她自己很容易发现的另一件公共记录。然而，最后他说：“奥瑞莉亚。她的名字叫奥瑞莉亚·马尔福。

“Is there anything you wouldn’t mind telling me about them?”
“你有什么不介意告诉我的事吗？”

Silence. Of course .
沉默。 答案是肯定的。

“Mr Malfoy, I appreciate opening up to a complete stranger isn’t always the easiest but I would encourage you to be a touch more forthcoming. I’m not here to catch you out.”
“马尔福先生，我很感激向一个完全陌生的人敞开心扉并不总是最容易的，但我鼓励你多一点坦诚一点。我不是来抓你的。

Seeing that her line of questioning wasn’t going to yield any kind of result, Hermione decided to change tack. “We’ll move forward some, then. You attended Hogwarts?”
赫敏看到她的提问不会产生任何结果，她决定改变策略。“那么，我们会向前推进一些。你上过霍格沃茨吗？

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“Do you remember the day you received your letter?”
“你还记得你收到信的那天吗？”

“Vividly.”
“生动。”

Hermione smiled at that. So did she. Leaning forward in her seat to convey her interest, she attempted to encourage him. “Excellent. Maybe you could describe what you felt that day. Or tell me where you were in the manor when the owl arrived?”
赫敏笑了笑。她也是。她在座位上向前倾身以表达她的兴趣，并试图鼓励他。“太好了。也许你可以描述一下你那天的感受。或者告诉我猫头鹰来的时候你在庄园里的什么地方？

“I would rather not.”
“我宁愿不。”

Hermione ran a frustrated hand over her forehead, pushing her wispy fringe askew. “Look...I...I don’t want to push, Mr Malfoy, but if you’re going to be resistant to every question I ask you, this is going to be extremely difficult for both of us.”
赫敏沮丧地用一只手抚摸着她的额头，歪歪扭扭地推开了她纤细的刘海。“看......我。。。我不想强迫你，马尔福先生，但如果你要抗拒我问你的每一个问题，这对我们俩来说都是极其困难的。

“Then perhaps you should give up.”
“那也许你应该放弃。”

There was a gleam of a challenge in his eye. Was that all he wanted? For her to give up? If she was the one to give up, Hermione reasoned to herself, then Draco would have to stop bothering him. A bubble of anger began to expand in Hermione’s stomach.
他的眼中闪过一丝挑战。这就是他想要的吗？让她放弃？赫敏心想，如果她是那个要放弃的人，那么德拉科就得停止打扰他了。一股愤怒的泡沫开始在赫敏的胃里膨胀。

“Why was I asked back here if you’re still resistant to working with me?”
“为什么有人问我，你是否仍然抗拒与我合作？”

“Because my son, like yourself, is quite insistent.”
“因为我儿子和你一样，都挺坚持的。”

“Don’t you want to show Kingsley that you’re interested in getting some kind of reprieve?”
“你不是想告诉金斯莱你有兴趣得到某种缓刑吗？”

“I have no interest in performing for rewards like some kind of captive beast .”
“我没有兴趣像某种被俘虏的野兽一样为了奖励而表演。”

“That’s not what I–” Hermione shook her head. “Draco is obviously keen for you to get some freedom back, don’t you want to try for him? Or your future grandchild?”
“那不是我——”赫敏摇摇头。“德拉科显然很想让你找回一些自由，你不想为他尝试吗？还是你未来的孙子？

“My future grandchild is, yet again , none of your business,” he said, his tone glacial.
“我未来的孙子，再一次，不关你的事，”他说，语气冰冷。

“Well you’re acting like they’re none of yours, either,” Hermione snapped.
“嗯，你也表现得好像他们不属于你一样，”赫敏厉声说。

There was a pause in which Lucius sat back in his seat, his eyes narrowed. “You are quite quick to anger, Miss Granger, did you know that? It makes you careless with your words. I wouldn’t think you would wish to speak in such a manner to a man you are attempting to coax – I am far from charmed.”
卢修斯坐回座位上，眯起了眼睛。“你真容易生气，格兰杰小姐，你知道吗？它让你的言语粗心大意。我想你不会愿意用这种方式和一个你试图哄骗的男人说话——我一点也不被迷住。

Bloody same , Hermione thought ferociously.
的一样，赫敏凶狠地想着。

“Mr Malfoy, I’m growing tired of trying to persuade you to do something that will help you in addition to helping me. I don’t particularly care if you ever step over the threshold of this manor again but Draco clearly does.” Where he had leaned back, Hermione moved forward and stopped the Wheezebox. “We haven’t done a full hour this week but I think we should leave it there.”
“马尔福先生，我已经厌倦了试图说服你做一些除了帮助我之外还能帮助你的事情。我不是特别在乎你是否会再次跨过这座庄园的门槛，但德拉科显然是这样。赫敏向后靠的地方，向前移动，停下了喘息盒。“我们这周还没有做一整小时，但我认为我们应该就此结束。”

“So you are giving up?” he said and Hermione thought she heard something almost accusatory in the words.  
“所以你要放弃了？” 他说，赫敏觉得她从这些话中听到了什么近乎指责的东西。

“No,” she replied with as much patience as she could muster. “I’m just not going to push you any harder than I need to – I’ve never been one for torture, funnily enough.” His hand squeezed the arm of his chair, a flash of white appearing through the skin over his knuckles. “I’ll be back at the same time next week.” 
“不，”她尽可能耐心地回答。“我只是不会把你逼得太紧——有趣的是，我从来就不是一个喜欢折磨的人。”他的手捏了捏椅子的扶手，一抹白色从他指关节上的皮肤中闪过。“我下周同一时间回来。”

Dropping her equipment into her bag, Hermione closed the flap and stood up, looking down at where he remained seated behind his desk. “I think, perhaps, in the intervening period you should genuinely think about what you want, Mr Malfoy. I have no intention of tripping you up or trying to make your punishment any worse . But I also can’t make it better unless you cooperate.”
赫敏把她的设备放进包里，合上翻盖，站起来，低头看着他坐在桌子后面的地方。“我想，也许，在这段时间里，你应该真心想想你想要什么，马尔福先生。我无意绊倒你或试图让你的惩罚变得更糟。但除非你合作，否则我也无法让它变得更好。

At that, Hermione turned and made for the door, feeling his eyes on her back the entire way across the room. “I’ll see you next week,” she said, not bothering to look back.
听到这话，赫敏转身向门口走去，感觉到他的眼睛在房间的另一边一直盯着她的背影。“下周见，”她说，懒得回头看。

On leaving Malfoy Manor, Hermione didn’t go straight home as she’d originally intended. Instead, she took herself to the Ministry. 
离开马尔福庄园后，赫敏并没有像她最初打算的那样直接回家。相反，她把自己带到了魔法部。

Lucius Malfoy was going to be a challenge for her, that much was clear, so she was going to respond to this challenge the way she did any other: she would arm herself with knowledge. Outside of the notes and books she already had, the Ministry archives felt like a good place to start looking for information on Malfoy. She’d get his trial notes, records of his donations, details of the issues that prompted him to lobby ministers and she’d spend every available moment of the next week reading about him and all of his horrid little ancestors. 
卢修斯·马尔福对她来说将是一个挑战，这一点很清楚，所以她要像对待其他任何人一样来应对这个挑战：她要用知识武装自己。除了她已经拥有的笔记和书籍之外，魔法部档案馆感觉像是开始寻找关于马尔福的信息的好地方。她会得到他的审判记录、他的捐款记录、促使他游说牧师的问题的细节，她会在接下来的一周里利用每一个空闲的时间阅读关于他和他所有可怕的小祖先的故事。

Stepping out of the lift and into the archive, Hermione breathed deep the calm, comforting smell of old parchment and the slightly woody scent of the various shelves and storage cabinets. There was no natural light in the archive, just hundreds of floating candles, all encased in bubble charms to reduce the risk of a fire. It was one of her favourite places in the Ministry, though between the sterile cafeteria and the awful worn tartan carpets that spanned the identikit departmental cubicles, it didn’t have much competition.
走出电梯，走进档案馆，赫敏深深地呼吸着旧羊皮纸平静、令人欣慰的气味，以及各种架子和储物柜的略带木质香味。档案馆里没有自然光，只有数百支漂浮的蜡烛，都包裹在泡泡护身符中，以降低火灾的风险。这是她在魔法部最喜欢的地方之一，尽管在空荡荡的自助餐厅和横跨同一部门隔间的破旧格子呢地毯之间，它并没有太多的竞争。

The welcome desk was empty but, feeling in no particular rush, Hermione hovered around it, folding and refolding the access slip that Kingsley had signed and presented to her at the beginning of her sabbatical. 
迎宾台空无一人，但赫敏并不觉得特别匆忙，她在它周围徘徊，折叠又折叠金斯莱在休假开始时签署并提交给她的访问单。

“Hullo, Hermione Granger.”
“哈洛，赫敏·格兰杰。”

Hermione started and turned to see Terry Boot emerging from a corridor of shelves, a box of documents in his hands. Immediately remembering what Ginny had relayed about him asking Harry about her, Hermione couldn’t seem to stop a small amount of heat rising to her cheeks.
赫敏起身，转过身来，看到特里·布特从书架走廊里走出来，手里拿着一箱文件。赫敏立刻想起了金妮转述的关于他向哈利询问她的事情，她似乎无法阻止一丝热气升到她的脸颊上。

“Hello, Terry. Long time no see.”
“你好，特里。好久不见。

“Indeed,” he grunted, depositing the box of documents on his desk with a heavy thump . Satisfied that they were stable, he gave her a wide smile. “What can I do for you today?”
“确实，”他咕哝着，重重地把一箱文件放在他的桌子上。他对他们很稳定感到满意，对她露出了一个灿烂的笑容。“今天我能为你做些什么？”

Handing over her slip for Terry to stamp, Hermione sidled closer to the desk and lifted her bag up onto it, extracting some parchment and a standard Muggle pencil from within. “I’m looking for material relating to the Malfoy family.”
赫敏把她的纸条递给泰瑞盖章，然后悄悄地靠近桌子，把她的包举到上面，从里面拿出一些羊皮纸和一支标准的麻瓜铅笔。“我在找和马尔福家族有关的材料。”

Terry’s eyebrows were raised as he handed Hermione’s slip back to her. “That’s a surname that appears in plenty of the boxes in here.” Terry ducked down behind the desk and opened a drawer. Hermione could hear him flipping through folders until he emerged with a long leaf of parchment identifying all of the records tied to the Malfoys. “You’ve got a long afternoon ahead of you.”
特里扬起眉毛，把赫敏的纸条还给她。“这个姓氏出现在这里的很多盒子里。”Terry躲在桌子后面，打开了一个抽屉。赫敏可以听到他翻阅文件夹的声音，直到他拿着一长长的羊皮纸出现，上面写着所有与马尔福家族有关的记录。“你有一个漫长的下午在等着你。”

“More than one afternoon by the looks of it,” Hermione said with a smile, taking the parchment from Terry and giving it a once over before rolling it into a tight scroll.
“看样子不止一个下午，”赫敏笑着说，从泰瑞手中接过羊皮纸，看了一遍，然后把它卷成一个紧紧的卷轴。

“Well, you know I’m always glad to see you here.” Terry took her bag and placed it in one of the storage boxes that personal belongings were kept in. “You follow the rules, for one thing.” He nodded at her pencil. 
“嗯，你知道我总是很高兴在这里见到你。”特里拿起她的包，把它放在一个存放个人物品的储物箱里。“一方面，你要遵守规则。”他对着她的铅笔点点头。

Always pleased to have her archive etiquette praised, Hermione grinned at him and he responded with a more shy smile. Terry was quite good looking, she realised with a start. She liked his short, slightly curly hair and, she noticed, he had perfect dimples. His eyes were so brown so as to be almost black and in the candlelit archives they practically glimmered. Why had she never noticed that before? At the start of her project she’d been an almost constant presence in the archives and he’d always been helpful but never anything more than that. Probably because she didn’t really want him to be. 
赫敏总是很高兴她的档案礼仪受到称赞，她对他咧嘴一笑，他以更害羞的笑容回应。特里长得挺好看的，她吓了一跳才意识到。她喜欢他那一头略带卷曲的短发，而且，她注意到，他有完美的酒窝。他的眼睛是如此的棕色，几乎是黑色的，在烛光下的档案中，它们几乎闪闪发光。为什么她以前从来没有注意到这一点？在她的项目开始时，她几乎一直出现在档案中，他总是乐于助人，但从来没有超过此。可能是因为她真的不想让他成为这样的人。

“It’s been a while since you were last here,” he said before Hermione could turn away. “I wondered how your project was going.”
“你上次来这里已经有一段时间了，”他在赫敏转身离开之前说。“我想知道你的项目进展如何。”

“Oh,” Hermione tucked her hair behind her ear. It was rare that anyone asked her that anymore – most people just wanted her to finish it. “It’s coming along. I’ve completed most of my interviews and I’m pulling together my transcripts, trying to organise some kind of structure, you know.”
“哦，”赫敏把头发掖到耳后。很少有人再问她这个问题了——大多数人只是希望她完成它。“它正在发生。我已经完成了大部分的采访，我正在整理我的成绩单，试图组织某种结构，你知道的。

Terry nodded at the parchment she was holding. “Why the sudden interest in the Malfoys?”
特里对着她手里的羊皮纸点点头。“为什么突然对马尔福家族感兴趣？”

“I’m interviewing Lucius Malfoy at the moment,” Hermione said, quietly adding, “Or I’m trying to.”
“我现在正在采访卢修斯·马尔福，”赫敏说，轻声补充道，“或者我正在尝试。

A faint frown creased Terry’s forehead and he tilted his head to the side. “The Death Eater?”
Terry的额头上皱起了一丝眉头，他把头歪向一边。“食死徒？”

“Yes,” Hermione said, her tone somewhat terse. She wasn’t really interested in justifying her desire to interview Death Eaters to yet another person. To her surprise, however, Terry just nodded.
“是的，”赫敏说，她的语气有些简洁。她并不是真的想向另一个人证明她采访食死徒的愿望是合理的。然而，令她惊讶的是，特里只是点了点头。

“Thorough,” he nodded approvingly. 
“彻底，”他赞同地点点头。

Hermione let out a short, breathy laugh. Ravenclaws. “Thanks. Well, I’d best be…” Hermione trailed off, gesturing over her shoulder into the shelves. 
赫敏发出一声短促的、喘息的笑声。拉文克劳。“谢谢。好吧，我最好是......”赫敏慢慢走开，转头指着书架。

“Er, Hermione?” Terry called after her as she turned to go. Hermione stopped, wincing longingly into the dark, isolated rows before facing him again. He looked nervous, a hand raised to scratch at his curls. “I wondered if you would…” 
“呃，赫敏？”特里在她转身要走时喊道。赫敏停了下来，渴望地皱起眉头，望着黑暗、孤立的一排排，然后再次面对他。他看起来很紧张，抬起一只手挠了挠他的卷发。“我想知道你是否愿意......”

Hermione swallowed, not sure whether she wanted to encourage what she thought he might be attempting to ask. Bloody Ginny .
赫敏咽了口口水，不确定她是否想鼓励她认为他可能试图提出的问题。 血腥金妮 .

“If you would just ask me if you need any more help,” Terry finished, looking discordantly irritated given he’d just made a perfectly friendly offer. 
“如果你能问我是否需要更多的帮助，”Terry说完，考虑到他刚刚提出了一个非常友好的提议，他看起来有些不和谐地恼怒。

Hermione assumed his irritation was at himself rather than her but she smiled, aware that she probably looked more relieved than she should by a simple offer of help. “I will.” 
赫敏以为他的生气是针对他自己而不是她，但她笑了笑，她知道她看起来可能比简单的帮助更像是松了一口气。“我会的。”

As she turned away again, she heard him mutter something that sounded curiously like “oh fuck it” before calling her name again.
当她再次转身离开时，她听到他喃喃自语着什么，听起来很奇怪，就像“哦，他妈的”，然后又叫了她的名字。

“Hermione, would you like to go out sometime?”
“赫敏，你想出去玩吗？”

Coming to a halt, eyes closing briefly in defeat, Hermione turned slowly to face him, her stomach sinking when she saw how hopeful he looked. “Oh…Terry, I’m really flattered. Honestly. It’s just...I’m quite busy just now with all of…” She lifted the scroll of parchment up with a pathetically hopeless shrug. “I’m just not sure I have time. ”
赫敏停了下来，沮丧地短暂地闭上了眼睛，慢慢地转过身来面对他，当她看到他看起来如此充满希望时，她的胃一沉。“哦......特里，我真的很受宠若惊。真诚地。只是......我现在很忙，忙于所有的事情......”她可怜地绝望地耸了耸肩，把羊皮纸卷轴举起来。“我只是不确定我有没有时间。”

Terry’s eyes widened as he somehow managed to shake his head and nod all at the same time. “No, absolutely. I get that. Completely. That’s totally fair.”
Terry睁大了眼睛，不知怎么的，他设法同时摇了摇头和点头。“不，绝对。我明白这一点。完全。这是完全公平的。

With a grateful smile, Hermione thought she ought to leave him but then he just kept speaking . “It’s just...I know you’re really busy just now but maybe...don’t say ‘no’ outright. What if I ask again a little later? Do you think when you’re a little more free you might…?”
赫敏带着感激的笑容，觉得她应该离开他，但随后他只是继续说话。“只是......我知道你刚才真的很忙，但也许......不要直接说“不”。如果我稍后再问怎么办？你觉得当你稍微自由一点时，你可能会......？

He trailed off hopefully and Hermione bit her lip as she considered him. Ginny would kill her when she told her about this encounter. Maybe she could reduce her almost certain death sentence to a severe glare and punch on the arm if she said yes. He might not even ask her again. Besides, it wasn't like she even needed to say yes the next time either.
他满怀希望地走开了，赫敏咬着嘴唇，看着他。当金妮告诉她这次遭遇时，她会杀了她。如果她同意的话，也许她可以将她几乎可以肯定的死刑判决减少为严厉的瞪眼和一拳打在手臂上。他甚至可能不会再问她了。此外，她下次也不需要说“是”。

“Yes, why not? I think...that would be lovely.”
“是的，为什么不呢？我认为。。。那太好了。

A relieved smile broke out across Terry’s face and Hermione saw the dimples more clearly than ever. She couldn’t help but return it, though somewhat more wearily. “Brilliant,” he said, slightly breathless. “Great, yeah. Okay, well...I’ll owl you. And obviously I’ll see you before you go to give you your stuff back. But I will owl you.”
泰瑞的脸上露出如释重负的笑容，赫敏比以往任何时候都更清楚地看到了那些酒窝。她忍不住把信还了回去，虽然有点疲惫了。“太棒了，”他说，有点喘不过气来。“太好了，是的。好吧......我来找你。显然，在你去把你的东西还给你之前，我会见你。但我会猫头鹰你。

“Perfect.” Just perfect .
“完美。” 简直完美。

Impatiently combing a stray curl from her face, Hermione squinted at a 1688 tract penned by one Florian Malfoy that argued against the Statute of Secrecy. Noting down some of its points, she found it hard not to shake her head in disbelief. A Malfoy arguing against the greater separation of the wizards and Muggles, when only a year later the records showed they had voted in favour of it. They really would twist themselves into any shape they had to. After poring over Lucius Malfoy’s trial notes from the first war, she could tell it was hereditary.
赫敏不耐烦地梳理着脸上的一缕飘发，眯着眼睛看着弗洛里安·马尔福（Florian Malfoy）在1688年写的一本反对保密法规的传单。记下其中的一些要点后，她发现很难不敢置信地摇头。一个马尔福反对巫师和麻瓜进一步分离，而仅仅一年后，记录显示他们已经投了赞成票。他们真的会把自己扭成任何他们必须的形状。在仔细研究了卢修斯·马尔福在第一次战争中的审判记录后，她可以看出这是遗传的。

Pushing another filled page of parchment to the side, Hermione almost choked when she caught a glimpse of her watch. The problem with the lack of natural light in the archives was that it was kind of hard to tell how much time had passed. Trying to pack away the papers she’d taken out as neatly as she’d found them while still moving quickly, Hermione tutted at herself for being late.
赫敏把另一页装满的羊皮纸推到一边，当她瞥见她的手表时，她差点窒息。档案中缺乏自然光的问题在于，很难判断过去了多少时间。赫敏一边快速移动，一边把她拿出来的文件收拾得像找到它们一样整齐齐，但赫敏嘲笑自己迟到了。

She had promised to meet Ginny, Harry, Ron, Luna and Neville at the Hogshead at 8 and it was already five past. She’d been working for hours. Next time, she’d have to ask Terry to act as her timer. 
她答应过 8 点在 Hogshead 见金妮、哈利、罗恩、卢娜和纳威，现在已经过去了五点。她已经工作了好几个小时。下次，她必须让 Terry 充当她的计时器。

There was already a glass of white wine waiting for her when she arrived at the Hogshead, twenty-five minutes late as Ginny immediately and sternly pointed out. 
当她到达猪头时，已经有一杯白葡萄酒在等着她，晚了二十五分钟，金妮立即严肃地指出来。

“Even Luna made it here before you and she had to stop in at Madam Pudifoots to help them sort out a Nargle infestation!”
“就连露娜也比你先到了这里，她不得不在 Pudifoots 夫人停下来帮助他们解决 Nargle 的侵扰！”

“It was terrible, Hermione,” Luna said with a solemn nod. “The waitress was really quite alarmed by the whole thing. I really felt for her.”
“太可怕了，赫敏，”卢娜郑重地点头说。“女服务员真的对整件事感到非常震惊。我真的很同情她。

“I reckon she was less alarmed by the Nargles and more by you sprinkling your homemade Narglecide all over the tables she’d just cleaned, Luna,” Ron pointed out, sniggering into his beer. 
“我估计她对纳格尔夫妇的惊吓较少，更多的是你把自制的纳格莱杀手洒在她刚刚清理的桌子上，露娜，”罗恩指出，对着他的啤酒嘲笑着。

Hermione had a sudden vision of Luna standing in the centre of Madam Pudifoots, sprinkling Narglecide like a priest with holy water, and choked on her wine. Chuckling to her left, Neville rubbed her back and Hermione threw him a grateful look. 
赫敏突然看到卢娜站在普迪富茨夫人的中央，像牧师一样用圣水洒着纳格莱杀戮剂，然后被她的酒呛住了。纳威朝她的左边笑了笑，揉了揉她的背，赫敏感激地看了他一眼。

They made a habit of having regular drinks at the Hogshead during the school year so that it was easy for Neville to come down from Hogwarts to meet them. He’d once told them that telling his first years that he regularly left the school to meet with Harry Potter, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger never failed to get him respect. When Ron had pointed out that Neville could get as much, if not more, respect by telling his students that he’d cut the head off of Voldemort’s snake with the sword of Gryffindor, Neville had just gone red around the ears and hidden his face in his pint. 
他们养成了在学年期间定期在霍格黑德喝酒的习惯，这样纳威就很容易从霍格沃茨下来迎接他们。他曾经告诉他们，告诉他一年级的学生，他经常离开学校去见哈利·波特、罗恩·韦斯莱和赫敏·格兰杰，这让他得到了尊重。当罗恩指出纳威告诉他的学生他用格兰芬多的剑砍下了伏地魔的蛇头，可以得到同样多的尊重，如果不是更多的话，纳威刚刚红了耳朵，把脸藏在他的品脱里。

“Where were you, Hermione?” Neville asked once he was sure that she was in a fit state to be able to reply. 
“你在哪儿，赫敏？”纳威在确定她身体状况良好，能够回答后问道。

“At the Ministry archives,” she said apologetically, wiping a droplet of wine from her chin. “Just lost track of time, you know.”
“在魔法部档案馆，”她抱歉地说，擦了擦下巴上的一滴酒。“就是忘记了时间，你知道的。”

“Malfoy research, was it?” Ginny asked, sounding displeased as she picked a congealed strip of cucumber from her gillywater. 
“马尔福研究，是吗？”金妮问道，她从她的吉利水中摘了一条凝结的黄瓜，听起来很不高兴。

“Yes,” Hermione said evasively as Ron narrowed his eyes while Neville and Luna looked on with interest. “But I don’t want to talk about that tonight. How are you, Neville? Luna?”
“是的，”赫敏回避地说，罗恩眯起眼睛，纳威和卢娜饶有兴趣地看着。“但我今晚不想谈论这个。你好吗，纳威？露娜？

“Are you researching the Malfoys too, Hermione?”
“你也在研究马尔福家族吗，赫敏？”

Everyone stared at Luna blankly but, as usual, the blonde girl appeared largely unbothered. “Er, yes, Luna,” Hermione said cautiously, unsure what might come out of pressing Luna for more details. “Are you ?”
每个人都茫然地盯着卢娜，但像往常一样，这个金发女孩似乎基本上不为所动。“呃，是的，卢娜，”赫敏小心翼翼地说，不确定追问卢娜的更多细节会带来什么。“你是吗？”

“Oh, yes,” Luna nodded dreamily and picked the olive out of her martini to pop it in her mouth. “I think I’ve found evidence that they hunted down the last of the Blibbering Humdingers and I’m sure they must still have some of their hides in their manor. They’d be worth a fortune, of course, but I don’t think they should be hidden away. Is that what you’re researching?”
“哦，是的，”卢娜梦幻般地点点头，从马提尼酒中摘下橄榄塞进嘴里。“我想我已经找到了他们追捕了最后一只喋喋不休的喋喋不休的傻瓜的证据，而且我敢肯定他们的庄园里肯定还有一些藏身之处。当然，它们会值一大笔钱，但我认为它们不应该被藏起来。这就是你在研究的东西吗？

Hermione blinked rapidly as Ron shared an incredulous look with a very amused Harry. “No, Luna. I’m interviewing Lucius Malfoy for my oral history. He’s quite...erm...uncommunicative, so I’m researching the family to get some background that I might be able to use to draw him out.” 
赫敏迅速地眨了眨眼，罗恩和哈利分享了一个难以置信的眼神。“不，露娜。我正在采访卢修斯·马尔福（Lucius Malfoy）作为我的口述历史。他相当......呃......不善于交流，所以我正在研究这个家庭，以获得一些背景信息，我可能会用它来吸引他。

“Can’t believe I’m saying something that could be mistaken as a defence of Lucius Malfoy,” said Ron, “but, Hermione, if the bloke really doesn’t want to talk to you, have you considered just leaving him alone?”
“真不敢相信我说的话会被误认为是在为卢修斯·马尔福辩护，”罗恩说，“但是，赫敏，如果那家伙真的不想和你说话，你有没有想过就这样让他一个人呆着？

“Of course she hasn’t, Ron,” Ginny said. “She’s Hermione. She’s a knowledge vampire who’ll suck him dry whether he likes it or not.”
“她当然没有，罗恩，”金妮说。“她是赫敏。她是个知识渊博的吸血鬼，不管他喜欢与否，她都会把他吸干。

Harry laughed loudly over Hermione’s indignant huff while Ron shuddered, his face contorted with disgust. “Can you not talk about sucking Lucius Malfoy dry? Thanks.”
哈利对赫敏的愤怒大笑起来，而罗恩则浑身发抖，他的脸因厌恶而扭曲。“你不能谈谈把卢修斯·马尔福吸干吗？谢谢。

“Fuck, Ron! ” Ginny exclaimed, flinging her cucumber across the table at him and making him cry out in protest. “That’s absolutely disgusting.”
“操，罗恩！”金妮喊道，把她的黄瓜扔到桌子对面，让他大声抗议。“这绝对令人作呕。”

“You said it!”
“你说的！”

“I bloody well did not ! Do not blame me for your sick mind.”
“我没有！不要因为你的病态而怪我。

“Oh my God,” Hermione muttered, dropping her face into her hands as, to her right, Harry sympathetically patted her shoulder. “I have to talk to that man next week so if we could just not that’d be great.”
“哦，我的上帝，”赫敏咕哝着，把脸埋在手里，哈利同情地拍了拍她的肩膀。“我下周必须和那个人谈谈，所以如果我们不能，那就太好了。”

“Why are you bothering, Hermione?” Neville asked quietly, a puzzled frown drawing his brows together. “Isn’t he just awful to you?” 
“你为什么烦恼，赫敏？”纳威轻声问道，困惑的眉头紧锁着他的眉头。“他不是很糟糕吗？”

“Don’t bother, Neville,” Ron interrupted with a dismissive eye roll. “She’ll just rabbit on about thoroughness and academics and getting a fuller picture and blah, blah, blah.”
“别打扰，纳威，”罗恩轻蔑地翻了个白眼打断。“她只会喋喋不休地谈论彻底性和学术性，并获得更全面的画面，等等。”

Hermione flushed an angry red and opened her mouth to protest but, before she could, Luna spoke again. “That makes sense.”
赫敏气得通红，张开嘴想要抗议，但还没等她开口，卢娜又开口了。“这很有道理。”

Everyone looked at Luna and a flicker of dread passed through Hermione. While she appreciated that Luna wasn’t going to be another person jumping down her throat, she wasn’t sure if Luna was the kind of person she wanted to immediately understand what she was doing. Maybe she had lost it.
每个人都看着卢娜，赫敏心中闪过一丝恐惧。虽然她很欣赏 Luna 不会成为另一个从她的喉咙里跳下来的人，但她不确定 Luna 是否是那种她想立即理解自己在做什么的人。也许她已经失去了它。

“What?” Luna asked, actually noticing their stares for once. “If Hermione wants a fuller picture then she’ll need to talk to him, won't she?”
“什么？”卢娜问道，实际上有一次注意到了他们的目光。“如果赫敏想要更全面的情况，那么她需要和他谈谈，不是吗？”

“Yeah,” Ron said, his lips turned down at the corners, “But what’s he going to say? ‘I hate Muggle-borns, end of story’? Great interview.”
“是啊，”罗恩说，他的嘴唇在嘴角下垂，“但他要说什么呢？我讨厌麻瓜出身的人，故事的结尾'？ 很棒的采访。

“That sounds more like the middle of a story to me,” Luna said pensively, taking a sip of her drink. 
“在我看来，这听起来更像是一个故事的中间，”Luna 沉思着说，喝了一口饮料。

Harry raised his eyebrows at Hermione who took a sizeable glug from her wine and shook her head, feeling it slosh in her cheeks. This really wasn’t what she wanted to talk about – it wasn’t exactly pleasant.
哈利向赫敏扬起眉毛，赫敏从她的酒中吸了一大口水，摇了摇头，感觉它在她的脸颊上晃动。这真的不是她想谈论的——这并不完全令人愉快。

“I think I would quite like to know what was happening to the Malfoys while I was in their dungeon,” Luna went on, her gaze unfocused. Everyone tensed up at that. “I heard them screaming sometimes.”
“我想我很想知道当我在马尔福家的地牢里时发生了什么，”卢娜继续说，她的目光没有聚焦。每个人都为此紧张起来。“我有时会听到他们尖叫。”

Hermione’s stomach dropped into the region of her pelvis and she put her wine glass down on the table with a touch more force than was entirely necessary. “I think we should just stop talking about this now. Please.”
赫敏的肚子掉进了她的骨盆区域，她把酒杯放在桌子上，用力大了一会儿。“我认为我们现在应该停止谈论这个。拜托了。

“You’re the one –” Ron started speaking indignantly but managed to cut himself off when Harry gave him a significant look from across the table. A gust of air against Hermione’s leg made her think he might have directed a kick at Ron, too.
“你就是那个——”罗恩开始愤愤不平地说，但当哈利从桌子对面狠狠地看了他一眼时，他设法打断了自己。一阵空气吹在赫敏的腿上，让她觉得他可能也踢了罗恩一脚。

There was a tense silence, broken eventually by Neville who turned to Ron. “How’s Hannah, Ron?”
一阵紧张的沉默，最终被纳威打破，他转向罗恩。“汉娜怎么样，罗恩？”

“Oh,” Ron sounded surprised but pleased. “She’s good, yeah. Studying for her final Healer exams is keeping her pretty busy so she said she’s sorry she couldn’t be here tonight. She told me to tell you she’s asking for you, Neville.”
“哦，”罗恩听起来很惊讶，但很高兴。“她很好，是的。为她的期末治疗师考试而学习让她很忙，所以她说她很抱歉今晚不能来这里。她让我告诉你，她在找你，纳威。

Hermione noticed a pink tinge suffuse Neville’s cheeks. “Tell her thank you,” he said quietly. “That’s very kind.”
赫敏注意到纳威的脸颊上泛起了一丝粉红色。“告诉她谢谢你，”他轻声说。“真是太好了。”

“Yeah, she’s a good’un, Hannah,” sighed Ron fondly, taking a deep drink. “What about you, Neville? Anyone on the go?”
“是的，她是个好人，汉娜，”罗恩深情地叹了口气，深深地喝了一口。“那你呢，纳威？有人在路上吗？

The pink on Neville’s cheeks only deepened and he chucked. “No, no. You don’t get much time for that when you’re teaching at Hogwarts.”
纳威脸颊上的粉红色加深了，他咯咯地笑了起来。“不，不。当你在霍格沃茨教书时，你没有太多时间做这些事情。

Looking over at Ginny, Hermione could see her meddling friend’s eyes moving speculatively between her and Neville. Sensing that Ginny was about to do some very bad maths and propose a very unwelcome solution to Neville’s problem, Hermione blurted out that she’d seen Terry Boot at the archives.
赫敏看着金妮，可以看到她爱管闲事的朋友的眼睛在她和纳威之间投机地移动。赫敏感觉到金妮即将做一些非常糟糕的数学运算，并为纳威的问题提出了一个非常不受欢迎的解决方案，她脱口而出说她在档案馆看到了特里·布特。

“ Really ?” Ginny asked, sounding almost hungry. “And how did that go?”
“真的吗？”金妮问道，听起来几乎饿了。“那进展如何？”

“He asked me out.”
“他约我出去。”

Ron groaned, muttering something about Tedious Terry coming to their pub nights, and Ginny smacked him on the arm without even glancing at him. “And what did you say?”
罗恩呻吟着，嘟囔着关于泰迪斯·特里来他们酒吧之夜的事情，金妮甚至没有看他一眼就打了他的手臂。“你说什么？”

“I said I’m quite busy.”
“我说我很忙。”

Ginny’s smile was fixed, polite and, for that, actually quite threatening. “That’s it?”
金妮的笑容是固定的、有礼貌的，而且，实际上，相当具有威胁性。“就这样？”

“Terry thinks he likes it when girls are smarter than him,” Luna interjected, drawing a stunned stare from Hermione. “It makes sense he would ask you out.”
“特里觉得他喜欢女孩子比他聪明，”卢娜插嘴说，引来了赫敏目瞪口呆的目光。“他约你出去是有道理的。”

“ Thinks he likes…?” 
“觉得他喜欢......？”

“Yes,” Luna said, clearly with no intention of elaborating. 
“是的，”卢娜说，显然无意详细说明。

Ginny widened her eyes at Luna and shook her head aggressively. “ Luna . We’re trying to persuade her to date him.”
金妮瞪大眼睛看着卢娜，咄咄逼人地摇了摇头。“ 露娜 .我们正在努力说服她和他约会。

“I didn’t say no outright ,” Hermione said, holding up a hand. “I just said now isn’t the right time but I hinted I might say yes at some point in the future.”
“我没有直接说不，”赫敏说，举起一只手。“我只是说现在不是合适的时机，但我暗示我可能会在未来的某个时候说是。”

With narrowed eyes, Ginny considered Hermione and then her frosty expression melted into a grin. “Hard to get. Genius, Hermione!”
金妮眯起眼睛，打量着赫敏，然后她冰冷的表情融化成了咧嘴笑。“很难得到。天才，赫敏！

“Your wife is astoundingly meddlesome,” Hermione muttered to Harry who could only grin fondly and shrug. 
“你老婆真是爱管闲事，”赫敏对哈利喃喃自语，哈利只能深情地咧嘴一笑，耸耸肩。

“She just wants everyone to be as happy in love as she is.”
“她只是希望每个人都能像她一样在爱情中快乐。”

“Disgusting.”
“恶心。”

Chapter 9
第 9 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius have another meeting and there is - incredibly - a little more progress than the last.
赫敏和卢修斯又开了一次会，而且——令人难以置信的是——比上一次多了一点进展。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

You all continue to be wonderful and patient. Thank you!
你们都继续保持出色和耐心。谢谢！

May 18th 
5月18日

“I’m taking you on a detour today.”
“我今天要带你绕道而行。”

Lips pressing into a thin line, Hermione threw an apprehensive glance at Draco as they walked up the stairs to the second floor of Malfoy Manor. “Where to?”
赫敏的嘴唇紧抿成一条细线，在他们走上楼梯来到马尔福庄园的二楼时，他不安地瞥了德拉科一眼。“去哪儿？”

“It’s a surprise.”
“真是个惊喜。”

“Malfoy, I despise surprises. Particularly where your home is concerned.”
“马尔福，我鄙视惊喜。特别是在你的家。

Draco cringed, immediately understanding what she was referencing. “Could you not? You’re ruining it.”
德拉科畏缩了一下，立刻明白了她指的是什么。“你不能吗？你毁了它。

Sighing, Hermione hauled her bag into a more comfortable position on her shoulder. “I don’t want to be late. I’m fairly sure your father will hold that against me until the end of time .”
赫敏叹了口气，把包拖到肩膀上更舒服的位置。“我不想迟到。我相当确定你父亲会一直对我不利，直到时间的尽头。

“He knows I’m doing this. You won’t be late.”
“他知道我在做这件事。你不会迟到的。

Knowing that Lucius Malfoy was also apparently in on the surprise did not serve to make Hermione feel more comfortable. Quite the opposite, in fact. “This is still the way to his study,” she pointed out as though this was a fact worthy of suspicion. 
知道卢修斯·马尔福显然也在寻找惊喜，这并没有让赫敏感到更舒服。事实上，恰恰相反。“这还是去他书房的路，”她指出，仿佛这是一个值得怀疑的事实。

“Our destination is quite close to his study,” Draco said with a shrug. “It’s a surprise, Granger, not a conspiracy.”
“我们的目的地离他的书房很近，”德拉科耸耸肩说。“这是一个惊喜，格兰杰，不是阴谋。”

Sure enough, they walked down the corridor that had become oddly familiar to Hermione but, rather than stop at the usual door, they continued past it, turning left at the end where the large window stood. Within seconds, Hermione found herself in front of a set of towering double doors. 
果然，他们走在赫敏已经变得奇怪熟悉的走廊上，但他们没有在通常的门前停下来，而是继续经过它，在大窗户所在的尽头左转。几秒钟后，赫敏发现自己站在了一组高耸的双门前。

Squinting at a carved band that ran along the centre of both doors, Hermione could make out the Latin words ‘ scientia potentia est ’. Wearing a sly smile, Draco watched her read the words, understand them, and then glance at him with wide eyes. 
赫敏眯着眼睛看着沿着两扇门中央延伸的一条雕刻带子，可以辨认出拉丁文中的“scientia potentia est”。德拉科带着狡猾的笑容，看着她读这些字，理解它们，然后睁大眼睛瞥了他一眼。

“Is this—”
“这是——”

Placing a finger to his lips with raised eyebrows, Draco reached out and opened the doors to the library, throwing them open to her. It was . The library. 
德拉科扬起眉毛，将一根手指放在嘴唇上，伸出手打开了图书馆的门，向她敞开了大门。它是 .库。

“Oh my God, Malfoy.”
“哦，我的上帝，马尔福。”

Hermione stepped over the threshold to the room, feeling like she was entering a dream. A rather cold dream, she thought with an involuntary shiver. A temperature control charm was the likely suspect. 
赫敏跨过房间的门槛，感觉自己仿佛进入了一场梦。一个相当冰冷的梦，她不由自主地颤抖着想。温控咒可能是嫌疑人。

Unlike the archives at the Ministry, the Malfoy’s library was filled with natural light which entered the room through a large glass dome set in the centre of the high vaulted ceiling. Hermione surmised that was a necessity instead of an architectural ostentation because, rather than having windows, every wall was covered with floor to ceiling mahogany bookcases, with more bookcases jutting out to create deep rows. The bookcases were divided into two levels, a small balcony running around each one with a ladder for access. 
与魔法部的档案馆不同，马尔福的图书馆充满了自然光，自然光通过设置在高高的拱形天花板中央的大型玻璃圆顶进入房间。赫敏推测那是必要的，而不是建筑上的炫耀，因为每面墙都没有窗户，而是从地板到天花板的桃花心木书架，更多的书架突出来形成深深的一排。书柜分为两层，一个小阳台围绕着每层，并配有梯子。

“Thought you’d like it.”
“以为你喜欢它。”

“It’s...it’s pretty incredible,” she said, turning on the spot, her eyes on the highest shelves. “I’m not going to lie.”
“这......这真是太不可思议了，“她说，当场转过身来，眼睛盯着最高的书架。“我不会撒谎。”

“You can use it as often as you like.”
“你想怎么用就怎么用。”

Hermione halted, her gaze going from awed to suspicious as she lowered it to land on him. “What are you talking about?”
赫敏停了下来，她的目光从敬畏变成了怀疑，她低下头落在他身上。“你在说什么？”

Malfoy pointed to their left and Hermione spied an enormous stone fireplace. It looked as though it had once been a cosy seating area but any chairs that had been there had been replaced by a large desk. There was a comfortable-looking chair placed in front of it and, on its surface, a selection of ink bottles and quills. 
马尔福指了指他们的左边，赫敏发现了一个巨大的石头壁炉。它看起来好像曾经是一个舒适的休息区，但那里的所有椅子都已被一张大桌子所取代。前面放着一把看起来很舒适的椅子，椅子的表面放着各种墨水瓶和羽毛笔。

“I’ve set up a desk for you here. To get you out of that offensively small kitchen once in a while.”
“我在这里为你安排了一张桌子。偶尔让你离开那个令人反感的小厨房。

“Are you joking?”
“你在开玩笑吗？”

“I know you struggle with humour, Granger, but surely even by your standards that’s a pretty shit joke.” Hermione narrowed her eyes and opened her mouth to say something cutting but Draco jumped in before she could. “I connected your flat to the library Floo so you can come back and forth easily without having to go through the rest of the manor.”
“我知道你很不擅长幽默，格兰杰，但即使按照你的标准，那肯定也是个相当狗屁的笑话。”赫敏眯起眼睛，张开嘴想说些什么，但德拉科在她之前就跳了进来。“我把你的公寓和图书馆连接起来了，飞路，这样你就可以轻松地来回进来，而不必穿过庄园的其余部分。”

Hermione gaped at him, wondering if he knew how intrusive connecting her Floo to his without permission actually was. The triumphant expression on his face suggested that he didn’t. “Malfoy, I really don’t think—”
赫敏目瞪口呆地看着他，想知道他是否知道未经允许将她的飞路和他的连接起来实际上是多么的侵入性。他脸上得意洋洋的表情表明他没有。“马尔福，我真的不觉得——”

He tutted impatiently. “Shut up. You need more space. Desperately. So why don’t you just say thank you and accept the nice offer?”
他不耐烦地啧了一声。“闭嘴。您需要更多空间。拼命地。那么，您为什么不直接说声谢谢并接受这个不错的提议呢？

“You said your father knows about this?”
“你说你爸爸知道这件事？”

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“And he’s happy to allow a Muggle-born to work in his library, is he?” Hermione asked, crossing her arms and raising a skeptical brow. “To touch his things?”
“而且他很高兴让一个麻瓜出身的人在他的图书馆工作，对吧？”赫敏问道，交叉双臂，怀疑地扬起眉毛。“摸他的东西？”

Draco rubbed the back of his neck, his face scrunched up. “Er, not exactly.” Hermione nodded impatiently, hearing exactly what she’d expected. 
德拉科揉了揉他的后颈，他的脸皱了起来。“呃，不完全是。”赫敏不耐烦地点点头，完全听到了她所期望的。

“But,” Draco added brightly, “as I reminded him, this is my home too.” Hermione raised her other brow, reluctantly impressed by his forcefulness. He hadn’t offered his father anything? “ And it’s a good look for Shacklebolt," Draco finished, not even having the grace to look abashed. Ah. Hermione’s lips pressed into a thin line. There it is . “Besides, you’re not really touching his things, are you? You’ll be bringing all your stuff here.”
“但是，”德拉科爽快地补充道，“正如我提醒他的那样，这也是我的家。赫敏扬起另一道眉毛，不情愿地被他的强硬所打动。他什么都没给他爸爸吗？“而且沙克尔博尔这副好看，”德拉科说完，甚至没有表现出羞愧的风度。 啊。赫敏的嘴唇紧贴成一条细线。 就在那里。“再说了，你不是真的在碰他的东西，对吧？你得把你所有的东西都带到这儿来。

Hermione huffed and turned to look covetously at the spacious comfortable set up, content that he could not see her face. It was sorely tempting. 
赫敏气喘吁吁，转过身来，贪婪地看着宽敞舒适的装置，满足于他看不到她的脸。这非常诱人。

“Merlin, just accept it, Granger. I won’t know if you only use it once and then never come back. I just want to give you the option. The three of us barely use this room so someone should.”
“梅林，接受吧，格兰杰。我不知道你是不是只用了一次就再也没有回来了。我只想给你一个选择。我们三个人几乎不用这个房间，所以应该有人用。

On hearing Draco say ‘the three of us’, Hermione recalled what the portrait had said on her last visit to the manor. He was surely referencing himself, his father and Astoria. That surely meant Narcissa Malfoy was the one who had left. Looking at Draco closely, Hermione wondered whether or not that was the kind of thing she could ask him. It felt like something that would have come up by now if he wanted to talk about it. Closing one of her hands into a fist, Hermione repressed her burning curiosity; Draco was her ally in Malfoy Manor and she didn’t want to do anything that might result in losing him.
听到德拉科说“我们三个”时，赫敏想起了她上次来庄园时那幅画像上说的话。他肯定指的是他自己、他的父亲和阿斯托利亚。那肯定意味着纳西莎·马尔福就是那个离开的人。赫敏仔细地看着德拉科，想知道她是否可以问他那种事情。如果他想谈论它，那感觉就像现在就会出现的事情。赫敏将一只手握成拳头，压抑着她燃烧的好奇心;德拉科是她在马尔福庄园的盟友，她不想做任何可能导致失去他的事情。

“You really don’t come in here?”
“你真的不进来吗？”

“It’ll be all yours.”
“一切都是你的。”

Hermione glanced back at the cosy desk and then nodded, first to herself and then to Draco, a smile spreading over her face. “Alright then. Thank you, Malfoy. This is...generous.”
赫敏回头看了一眼那张舒适的书桌，然后点了点头，先是对自己点了点头，然后又点了点头，脸上露出了笑容。“好吧。谢谢你，马尔福。这是。。。慷慨。

“You can put a dedication to us in the book. ‘ A special thank you to the Malfoys, who finally provided me with a desk that isn’t absurdly close to an atrociously loud fridge.’ ”
“你可以在书中写下对我们的奉献。'特别感谢马尔福一家，他们终于给了我一张桌子，这张桌子离一个吵得离谱的冰箱并不近。”

Shooting him a wry look, Hermione turned towards the door. “You are foolishly ignoring the advantages that come from working beside a fridge.”
赫敏讽刺地瞪了他一眼，然后转身朝门口走去。“你愚蠢地忽视了在冰箱旁边工作的好处。”

“Enjoy the tour?” Lucius asked acidly from behind his desk when Hermione entered his office twenty minutes later than usual. 
“喜欢这次旅行吗？”卢修斯在办公桌后面尖酸刻薄地问道，这时赫敏比平时晚了二十分钟进入他的办公室。

“Yes, thank you.” Hermione replied primly, closing the door to his study behind her. “Your library is marvellous.”
“是的，谢谢。”赫敏严肃地回答，关上了她身后书房的门。“你的图书馆真棒。”

Malfoy’s eyebrows lifted a fraction before he fixed her with a haughty look. “I should think so; it’s the work of dozens of generations.”
马尔福的眉毛扬起了一点，然后用一种傲慢的眼神盯着她。“我想是的;这是几十代人的工作。

“And what would all of those ancestors say if they could see me in it, hm?” Hermione asked breezily, setting her bag down on the floor by her chair and flipping it open. 
“如果那些祖先能在里面看到我，他们会怎么说，嗯？”赫敏轻快地问道，把包放在椅子旁的地板上，然后翻开。

When she received no response, Hermione peeked up over the edge of his desk to look at him while she pulled out her equipment. “Nothing to say to that? Really?”
当她没有得到回应时，赫敏从他的桌子边缘偷看了他一眼，同时她拿出了她的设备。“没什么好说的吗？真的吗？

“Draco has suggested that when I think I am going to say something that may upset you, I should opt for silence instead,” Lucius responded stiffly. 
“德拉科建议，当我认为我要说的话可能会让你不高兴时，我应该选择沉默，”卢修斯生硬地回答。

Hermione genuinely laughed, her eyes crinkling as she leaned her head back. “Your silence is the problem , Mr Malfoy. If it means I get something worthwhile out of you, give me your worst. It’ll be nothing I haven’t heard before.”
赫敏真诚地笑了起来，她的眼睛皱了起来，把头向后仰。“你的沉默才是问题所在，马尔福先生。如果这意味着我从你身上得到了一些有价值的东西，那就把你最坏的事告诉我。这不会是我以前没听说过的。

His expression flickered and Hermione got the impression her insouciance irritated him. Good . Men like Lucius Malfoy liked to feel like they had the upper hand and she wasn’t particularly keen on just giving him that. 
他的表情忽悠，赫敏觉得她的漫不经心激怒了他。 好。像卢修斯·马尔福这样的男人喜欢觉得自己占了上风，而她并不是特别热衷于给他这种东西。

Sliding the Wheezebox into the centre of his desk, she adjusted her Quick Quotes Quill, addressing him as she did so. “Prejudice like yours is repetitive and frightfully unoriginal. You’ll have to get creative if you really want to hurt me.”
她把喘息盒滑到他的桌子中央，调整了一下她的快速引文羽毛笔，一边对他说话。“像你这样的偏见是重复的，而且非常没有原创性。如果你真的想伤害我，你就得有创意。

She glanced up in time to catch a gleam in his eye, which made her wish she hadn’t just effectively issued a challenge to him. As Draco had suggested to her, he was the kind of man that would rise to meet it. Before he could try, she continued speaking.
她及时抬头瞥了一眼，捕捉到他眼中的光芒，这让她希望自己没有有效地向他发出挑战。正如德拉科向她建议的那样，他是那种会挺身而出迎接它的人。在他尝试之前，她继续说话。

“Have you given thought to what I said last week?” she asked, drawing out her wand. “Are you willing to be more open?”
“你有没有想过我上周说的话？” 她问道，一边抽出魔杖。“你愿意更开放吗？”

“I am willing to try ,” he said. His tone suggested he was anything but, yet Hermione noticed the way his eyes lingered on her wand. It was possible Lucius Malfoy missed his magic more than he’d been letting on. Without it, after all, he was practically just a wealthy Muggle. Not that she’d dare to point that out to him.
“我愿意尝试，”他说。他的语气表明他绝非如此，但赫敏注意到他的目光在她的魔杖上徘徊。卢修斯·马尔福可能比他一直放的更想念他的魔法。毕竟，没有它，他实际上只是一个富有的麻瓜。她不敢向他指出这一点。

“That’s all I can ask for.” With an encouraging smile, Hermione tapped her wand to the Wheezebox. “Alright, let’s pick up where we left off last time, Mr Malfoy. You were raised here in Malfoy Manor?”
“这就是我所能要求的。”赫敏带着鼓励的微笑，用魔杖敲了敲Wheezebox。“好了，我们继续上次离开的地方吧，马尔福先生。你是在马尔福庄园长大的？

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“Can you tell me about your childhood here?”
“你能告诉我你在这里的童年吗？”

“I struggle to imagine what you could possibly want to know, Miss Granger.”
“我很难想象你会想知道什么，格兰杰小姐。”

“Well, what was it like being raised in such a large house as an only child? Was it lonely?”
“嗯，作为独生子，在这么大的房子里长大是什么感觉？是不是很孤独？

“I was never alone,” he said, his voice and face hardening so fast Hermione had to resist the urge to look over her shoulder for Medusa.
“我从来都不孤单，”他说，他的声音和脸色都变得如此迅速，以至于赫敏不得不忍住回头寻找美杜莎的冲动。

That’s not what I asked , Hermione thought. But she let it slide; he was talking. “Your parents were attentive then?”
那不是我问的，赫敏想。但她让它滑落了;他在说话。“那你父母很细心吗？”

“I had multiple nannies, tutors and servants.”
“我有多个保姆、家庭教师和仆人。”

“Oh, so your parents were…” Hermione trailed off, not entirely sure what they could have been. Too wealthy to work but too busy to spend time with their only son? Even Hermione knew that was insensitive phrasing. 
“哦，所以你的父母是......”赫敏慢慢走开，不完全确定他们是什么。太富有而无法工作，但又太忙而无法陪伴他们唯一的儿子？就连赫敏也知道那是麻木不仁的措辞。

“Doing what was expected of them.” 
“做对他们的期望。”

On seeing her surprise, Lucius sighed tersely. “Draco said you are quite thorough in your research but clearly you are not if you have not bothered to take the time to familiarise yourself with Pure-blood customs. How incredibly typical of your kind to revel in your own ignorance.”
看到她的惊讶，卢修斯简短地叹了口气。“德拉科说你的研究相当彻底，但如果你没有花时间去熟悉纯血统的习俗，显然你就不是。你们这种人陶醉于自己的无知是多么典型啊。

Hermione flushed, embarrassed and incensed by his criticism. She hadn’t really given much thought to Pure-blood customs. They were archaic and pointless, weren’t they? But, she considered, they had created the man before her. Hermione made a mental note to do some additional reading.   
赫敏脸红了，被他的批评弄得尴尬又生气。她并没有真正考虑过纯血统的习俗。他们很古老，毫无意义，不是吗？但是，她想，他们创造了她之前的那个男人。赫敏在心里记下要多读一遍。

“Perhaps you could enlighten me then, Mr Malfoy.”
“也许你能开导我，马尔福先生。”

Lucius pursed his lips and inclined his head. He probably relished the idea of schooling her in all the ways his upbringing was more unnecessarily elaborate than hers.
卢修斯抿起嘴唇，歪着头。他可能很喜欢用他的教养方式比她更不必要地复杂来教育她。

“In Pure-blood circles, it is not usually considered necessary for parents to be overly concerned with their children when they are very young. My mother left my care to those who were professionally qualified to provide it and my father entered my life as a guiding influence at the age of ten, in preparation for my attendance at Hogwarts. As is proper.”
“在纯血统圈子里，通常认为父母没有必要在孩子很小的时候过分关心他们。我母亲把我的照顾交给了那些有专业资格的人照顾，我父亲在我十岁时作为指导影响进入了我的生活，为我进入霍格沃茨做准备。这是正确的。

“What kind of things did your father teach you in preparation for Hogwarts?” Hermione asked, expecting some kind of pre-first year magic course. She had always slightly resented the idea that children with magical parents might have gotten that kind of advantage but, then again, it had only served to make her work harder. A lack of complacency and never taking her magic for granted had worked well for her.
“你爸爸教了你什么样的东西来准备进入霍格沃茨？”赫敏问道，期待着某种一年级前的魔法课程。她一直有点讨厌有魔法父母的孩子可能会得到那种好处，但话又说回来，这只会让她更加努力地工作。不自满，从不把她的魔法视为理所当然，这对她来说效果很好。

“How to be a Malfoy.” 
“如何成为马尔福。”

Hermione tried to turn her laugh into a cough but the way Malfoy’s lips narrowed into a thin line told her she hadn’t quite succeeded. “And that takes a lot of guidance, does it?” she asked with what she thought was an impressively straight face.
赫敏试图把她的笑声变成咳嗽，但马尔福的嘴唇眯成一条细线的方式告诉她，她还没有完全成功。“这需要很多指导，对吧？”她问道，她认为这是一张令人印象深刻的板脸。

“It is a role with a great deal of responsibility,” Lucius said with stony dignity. “He was assiduous in his teaching.”
“这是一个责任重大的角色，”卢修斯带着坚如磐石的尊严说。“他在教学中很勤奋。”

Hermione heard something in Malfoy’s tone that caused a tug of curiosity. Following her instinct against her better judgement, she asked, “Did you like your father, Mr Malfoy?”
赫敏从马尔福的语气中听到了什么，引起了一阵好奇。她凭直觉反对自己的判断力，问道，“你喜欢你的父亲吗，马尔福先生？

Lucius Malfoy drummed his fingers against the arm of his chair once and then stilled them. “I don’t see how my feelings for my father can be at all pertinent to your history of the war or my experience of it.” 
卢修斯·马尔福用手指敲了一下椅子的扶手，然后让它们安静下来。“我看不出我对我父亲的感情怎么会与你的战争历史或我的经历有任何关系。”

“They aren’t, I suppose,” Hermione acknowledged, hesitating slightly. “It’s just...in our early interviews, Draco always gave me the impression that you were quite involved in his life from the beginning. He didn’t say anything about Pure-blood rules or an army of nannies.”
“他们不是，我想，”赫敏承认道，略微犹豫了一下。“只是......在我们早期的采访中，Draco 总是给我的印象是你从一开始就非常参与他的生活。他没有说任何关于纯血统规则或保姆大军的事情。

Shifting in his seat, Lucius looked to the side of Hermione’s eyes rather than in them. “Young men should fear their fathers.”
卢修斯在座位上挪动了一下，看向赫敏的眼睛一侧，而不是眼睛。“年轻人应该敬畏他们的父亲。”

“But Draco doesn’t seem to fear you,” Hermione pointed out quietly. “I mean, he’s not fear less , I suppose, but he’s not exactly fear ful .”
“但德拉科似乎并不害怕你，”赫敏悄悄地指出。“我的意思是，我想他并没有减少恐惧，但他并不完全是恐惧。”

“I said they should , Miss Granger.” His eyes flicked back to hers, cold and hard like his voice. “Not that they all do. I hardly think your project will be a success if you do not listen carefully.”
“我说他们应该这样做，格兰杰小姐。”他的眼睛又瞥向她，就像他的声音一样冰冷而坚硬。“不是他们都这样做。如果你不仔细倾听，我几乎不认为你的项目会成功。

Biting down on her tongue hard enough to taste the tang of blood, Hermione attempted to compose herself. “Why doesn’t Draco fear you then?”
赫敏用力地咬住自己的舌头，尝到血的味道，试图让自己冷静下来。“那德拉科为什么不怕你呢？”

“Several reasons,” Lucius said with a careless wave of his hand. “Clearly I was wrong in allowing it.”
“有几个原因，”卢修斯漫不经心地挥了挥手。“显然，我允许这样做是错误的。”

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“Well, I wouldn’t be suffering through this indignity if I had ruled with an iron fist as I should have.”
“嗯，如果我本该用铁腕统治的话，我就不会遭受这种侮辱。”

Not entirely sure how to reply to that, Hermione left a brief pause which was, to her horror, filled by the sound of her stomach rumbling loudly. Lucius gave her a look which made her want to curl up in a ball.  
赫敏不完全确定该如何回答这个问题，她短暂地停顿了一下，令她惊恐的是，她的肚子大声咕咕叫的声音填补了这个停顿。卢修斯瞪了她一眼，让她想蜷缩成一团。

“I’m sorry,” Hermione said, her hand instinctively coming down to cradle her stomach. “I was in the archives this morning and I lost track of time. Completely missed lunch.” 
“对不起，”赫敏说，她的手本能地伸下来抱住了她的肚子。“今天早上我在档案馆里，我忘记了时间。完全错过了午餐。

Ducking under the desk and into her bag, Hermione rose again with a small plastic lunchbox in her grip. She lifted it up above the side of the desk so that he could see it. “Do you mind if I…?”
赫敏躲进桌子底下，钻进她的包里，手里拿着一个小塑料饭盒，再次站起来。她把它举到桌子的一侧，这样他就能看到它。“你介意我......？”

“What is that ?”
“那是什么？”

Rolling her eyes, Hermione cracked open the lunchbox and took out a small square of bread. “It’s a sandwich.” She raised it up to her lips and paused before taking a bite. “Can I?”
赫敏翻了个白眼，劈开饭盒，拿出一小块面包。“这是一个三明治。”她把它举到嘴边，停顿了一下，然后咬了一口。“我可以吗？”

“My options appear to be to allow you to drop crumbs all over my floor or listen to your stomach loudly protest your inability to adequately provide for yourself.” 
“我的选择似乎是让你把面包屑丢在我的地板上，或者听你的肚子大声抗议你无法充分养活自己。”

As though on cue, Hermione’s stomach gave a long whine and Lucius uttered a long-suffering sigh, raising a finger to rub the corner of his eye. “Just eat.” 
仿佛是受到了暗示，赫敏的肚子发出了长长的呜呜声，卢修斯发出了一声长长的痛苦叹息，抬起一根手指揉了揉他的眼角。“吃吧。”

He seemed unable to look at her as she took an eager bite of her sandwich, as though it was something indecent. Perhaps he couldn’t reconcile himself with the idea that Muggle-borns would do something as human as eat. That was, admittedly, something she struggled to picture him doing. 
当她急切地咬着她的三明治时，他似乎无法看她一眼，仿佛这是一件不雅的事情。也许他无法接受麻瓜出身的人会做一些像吃东西一样人的事情。“诚然，她很难想象他会这样做。

“I wish I could solely subsist on all the disdain you throw my way, Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said, giving him a sarcastic smile. “But unfortunately Muggle-borns don’t work like that. I’m sure that’s a surprise to you.”
“我真希望我能靠你对我的轻蔑来维持生计，马尔福先生，”赫敏说，对他露出一个讽刺的笑容。“但不幸的是，麻瓜出身的人不是那样工作的。我敢肯定，这对你来说是一个惊喜。

He raised a thin eyebrow. “What exactly were you doing in the archives that occupied you to the point of forgetting to eat ?”
他扬起了一道细眉。“你到底在档案里做什么，让你忘了吃饭？”

“Researching.” 
“研究。”

He left a questioning pause but Hermione did not fill it, instead looking at him with wide eyes as she chewed. He sighed, realising he was going to have to suffer the further indignity of having to ask a question that betrayed he was interested in anything about her. “Researching what ? It obviously was not Pure-blood customs, as we’ve covered.”
他留下了一个质疑的停顿，但赫敏没有填补，而是睁大眼睛看着他，咀嚼着。他叹了口气，意识到他将不得不承受进一步的羞辱，因为他不得不问一个暴露了他对她的任何事情都感兴趣的问题。“研究什么 ？这显然不是我们已经介绍过的纯血统习俗。

“I was researching you.“
“我在研究你。”

He blinked. 
他眨了眨眼。

“And your family.”
“还有你的家人。”

“And that occupied you for hours?”
“那让你忙了好几个小时？”

“Days,” she corrected him. “You’re an active bunch, aren’t you?”
“几天，”她纠正他。“你们是一群活跃的人，不是吗？”

Something passed over his face then but, not being especially well versed in Lucius Malfoy’s facial expressions, Hermione struggled to identify what it was. If the notion didn’t strike her as ridiculous, she could have sworn he was pleased by what he’d heard. 
然后有什么东西从他的脸上掠过，但是，由于不是特别熟悉卢修斯·马尔福的面部表情，赫敏很难弄清楚那是什么。如果这个想法不让她觉得很荒谬，她可以发誓他对他所听到的感到满意。

“Would you like a glass of water, Miss Granger?”
“要一杯水吗，格兰杰小姐？”

Hermione swallowed her sandwich with a loud gulp and hesitated. Unprompted generosity from Lucius Malfoy. It felt like a trap. Unless he actually was pleased that she’d spent days researching his family and this was some kind of sad reward. Considerate acts didn’t strike her as Lucius Malfoy’s bag, after all. While Hermione would eat her wand if Lucius Malfoy had heard of Pavlov she didn’t think it was impossible that he had developed a similar approach to conditioning.
赫敏大口大口地吞下了她的三明治，犹豫了。卢修斯·马尔福 （Lucius Malfoy） 的无端慷慨。感觉就像一个陷阱。除非他真的很高兴她花了几天时间研究他的家庭，而这是某种可悲的回报。毕竟，体贴的行为并没有让她觉得是卢修斯·马尔福的包。虽然如果卢修斯·马尔福听说过巴甫洛夫，赫敏会吃掉她的魔杖，但她并不认为他已经发展出类似的条件反射方法是不可能的。

“It’s a simple yes or no question,” he said with more than a hint of impatience.
“这是一个简单的是或否的问题，”他说，带着一丝不耐烦。

“Er, yes, then. That would be lovely.” He raised his eyebrows expectantly and Hermione repressed a sigh. “ Thank you , Mr Malfoy.” 
“呃，是的。那太好了。他期待地扬起眉毛，赫敏压抑住了一口气。“谢谢你，马尔福先生。”

“Letty!” 
“莱蒂！”

A sharp crack made Hermione jump in her seat, gripping her sandwich so tightly that her fingertips left a dent in the bread.
一声尖锐的噼啪声让赫敏在座位上跳了起来，她紧紧地抓着她的三明治，以至于她的指尖在面包上留下了一个凹痕。

“Master called for Letty?”
“师父叫莱蒂？”

Hermione raised her chin to peer over the expanse of Malfoy’s desk and spied the unmistakable bat-like ears of a house elf standing beside his chair. 
赫敏抬起下巴，望着马尔福宽阔的桌子，瞥见了站在他椅子旁边的一只家养小精灵明显的蝙蝠般的耳朵。

“Letty,” Malfoy said quite pleasantly, “would you please fetch our guest a glass of water?”
“莱蒂，”马尔福相当愉快地说，“你能不能请给我们的客人拿一杯水来？

Hermione stared at him, forgetting the half-chewed sandwich in her mouth. Did he just say ‘please’? Looking back to the desk, Hermione saw there was a small head with disproportionate tennis ball-sized eyes now peering in her direction. The eyes blinked once, twice, thrice, and then the elf gasped in a theatrical show of recognition. Lucius looked down at the elf sharply but she didn’t seem to notice.
赫敏盯着他，忘记了嘴里嚼了一半的三明治。他刚才说了一声“请”吗？赫敏回头看向桌子，看到有一个小脑袋，一双网球大小的眼睛不成比例地盯着她的方向。那双眼睛眨了一次、两次、三次，然后妖精喘着粗气，以一种戏剧性的姿态表示认可。卢修斯猛地低头看着这个精灵，但她似乎没有注意到。

“Miss is Hermione Granger,” Letty whispered reverently.
“小姐是赫敏·格兰杰，”莱蒂虔诚地低声说。

Oh . Hermione glanced at Malfoy who had forgotten to school his expression into its usual disinterested neutrality and instead looked like he’d just swallowed vomit flavoured Every Flavoured Bean.  Setting her sandwich down in her lunchbox, Hermione brushed her hands on her jeans and stood as Letty came around the desk towards her. 
哦。赫敏瞥了马尔福一眼，马尔福忘了把他的表情训练成平常的冷漠中立，反而看起来像是刚刚吞下了呕吐物味的每一种风味豆子。赫敏把三明治放在午餐盒里，用手拂过牛仔裤，站起来，看着莱蒂绕过桌子向她走来。

“Er, yes, hello. Letty, was it? Pleased to meet you.”
“呃，是的，你好。莱蒂，是吗？很高兴认识你。

Hermione held her hand out to shake but the elf dipped into a curtsy so deep that her nose almost brushed the floor. Hermione took the opportunity to quickly look Letty over—she appeared in good health and she was wearing a toga that, as far as Hermione could tell, was dry cleaned and pressed. A far cry from Dobby.
赫敏伸出手想握晃，但小精灵却深深地屈膝行礼，以至于她的鼻子几乎擦到了地板上。赫敏趁机迅速地打量了莱蒂一番——她看起来身体健康，穿着一件长袍，据赫敏所知，这件长袍是干洗和熨烫的。与 Dobby 相去甚远。

“It is a great honour for Letty to meet Miss. Letty knows Miss is a most kind witch to elves, most kind. Letty is serving two families with more than enough work thanks to Miss. Very busy, is Letty.”
“莱蒂很荣幸能见到小姐。莱蒂知道小姐对精灵来说是最善良的女巫，最善良的。多亏了小姐，Letty 正在为两个家庭服务，他们的工作绰绰有余。非常忙碌，是 Letty。

Hermione blushed and out of the corner of her eye she could see that Malfoy’s lip had curled with distaste. The praise was embarrassing but Hermione couldn’t deny she was somewhat pleased; her Freedom of Labour Act had been one of the last things she’d managed to see through before leaving the Ministry and she hadn’t actually encountered a house elf since. Letty didn’t speak for all elves, Hermione knew, but she seemed like proof it was working as intended. In the end, Hermione had figured the best way to sell elves on the appeal of more rights was to wrap them in the tantalising package of more work. But fairer work.
赫敏脸红了，从眼角的余光中，她可以看到马尔福的嘴唇因厌恶而卷曲。这种赞美很尴尬，但赫敏不能否认她有些高兴;她的《劳动自由法》是她离开魔法部之前设法看透的最后一件事之一，从那以后她就再也没有真正遇到过家养小精灵。赫敏知道，莱蒂并不能代表所有精灵说话，但她似乎证明了它正在按预期进行。最后，赫敏想出了用更多权利的吸引力来卖给精灵的最好办法，就是把他们包装在诱人的、更多工作的包装里。但更公平的工作。

"I – well, thank you, Letty. I’m pleased you’re happy."
“我——嗯，谢谢你，莱蒂。我很高兴你开心。

"Letty," came Lucius’ sharp voice as a reminder of his request. With a guilty start and a deep bow, the elf disappeared as suddenly as she had appeared. Still hot around her cheeks, Hermione returned to her seat and lifted her lunchbox from the desk back into her lap, avoiding Malfoy’s eye. 
“莱蒂，”卢修斯尖锐的声音提醒着他。带着愧疚的开始和深深的鞠躬，这个妖精消失得就像她出现时一样突然。赫敏的脸颊仍然发烫，她回到座位上，把饭盒从桌子上拿回腿上，避开马尔福的眼睛。

"So you’re the one I have to thank for that abominable Freedom of Labour act," he said.
“所以，你是我必须为那项可憎的《劳工自由法》感谢的人，”他说。

Glancing up, Hermione saw he was looking at her with narrowed eyes. "Yes."
赫敏抬头看了一眼，发现他正眯着眼睛看着她。“是的。”

"You’re the reason I have to pay a house elf to work part-time in my home. You’re the reason I share my servant with another family. She doesn’t even spend the money!"
“你是我得付钱给一个家养小精灵在我家做兼职工作的原因。你是我与另一个家庭分享我的仆人的原因。她连钱都不花！

"You were quite polite to her," Hermione pointed out. “You said please."
“你对她挺有礼貌的，”赫敏指出。“你说过拜托。”

"That’s because she can quit ," he spat. 
“那是因为她可以戒烟，”他啐了一口。

Another crack rent the air and Letty appeared in front of Hermione. Bowing her head and descending onto one knee, the elf raised a crystal glass filled with water to Hermione like it was a religious chalice. Mortified, Hermione took it with a whispered ‘thank you’ and sat it on the desk. Taking time to direct another adoring look at Hermione followed by a somewhat nervous glance in the direction of Lucius Malfoy, Letty vanished. 
又一声噼啪声划破了空气，莱蒂出现在赫敏面前。小精灵低下头，单膝跪地，向赫敏举起一个装满水的水晶杯，就像一个宗教圣杯一样。赫敏羞愧地接过它，低声说了声“谢谢”，然后把它放在桌子上。莱蒂花了点时间又朝赫敏崇拜的眼神看了一眼，然后有点紧张地看了一眼卢修斯·马尔福的方向，然后消失了。

“Do you consider it your calling to be a champion of lesser creatures, Miss Granger?” he asked with cold politeness. “Or is it a role you've stepped into gradually as a result of personal identification?”
“格兰杰小姐，你认为成为低等生物的冠军是你的使命吗？”“还是说，这是你因为个人认同而逐渐进入的角色？”

The sandwich in Hermione’s mouth abruptly took on an ashy taste, the bread’s texture becoming unaccountably thick and difficult to swallow. Chewing slowly, breathing deeply through her nose, she finally swallowed and fixed Lucius with a cold look.
赫敏嘴里的三明治突然有了灰烬的味道，面包的质地变得莫名其妙地厚实，难以吞咽。她慢慢地咀嚼着，用鼻子深呼吸，终于咽了下去，用冰冷的眼神盯着卢修斯。

“It never hurts to support the underdog, Mr Malfoy; I imagine you’re aware that you never know when you might become one yourself.”
“支持弱者从来没有坏处，马尔福先生;我想你一定知道你永远不知道自己什么时候会成为其中一员。

His expression soured but Hermione struggled to take much satisfaction from it. Finding her appetite was quite gone, she quietly closed her lunchbox and returned it to her bag. It was tempting to turn off her voice recorder and retreat for the day but that would feel, and look, too much like an admission of defeat.
他的表情变得阴沉，但赫敏却挣扎着要从中得到多少满足。发现她的胃口已经很没了，她悄悄地关上了饭盒，把它放回了包里。关掉她的录音机，撤退一天是很诱人的，但那感觉和看起来，都太像是承认失败了。

"I think we’ve gotten a touch off track," she finally said. “Shall we get back to what we were discussing before?” 
“我认为我们已经偏离了轨道，”她最后说。“我们应该回到我们之前讨论的内容吗？”

"As you say."
“正如你说的。”

"When I was reading through the Ministry archives, I noticed that your father's name appears often. He never held any official role in the Ministry but he seemed to wield a great deal of influence." Lucius nodded to acknowledge the truth of what she said. "It reminded me of someone," Hermione added with a pointed look.
“当我翻阅魔法部的档案时，我注意到你父亲的名字经常出现。他从未在魔法部担任过任何正式职务，但他似乎拥有很大的影响力。卢修斯点点头，承认她所说的话是真的。“这让我想起了某个人，”赫敏尖锐地看着他补充道。

"Indeed?"
“真的吗？”

"Was that part of learning to become a Malfoy? Did he teach you how to manipulate the system?"
“那是学习成为马尔福的一部分吗？他教你如何操纵这个系统吗？

"You make it sound as though we were the sole sources of corruption in an otherwise pure organisation."
“你说得好像我们是一个纯粹的组织中腐败的唯一来源。”

"Weren’t you?" 
“不是吗？”

To Hermione’s surprise Malfoy made a low sound that might have been a chuckle. "I know you do not believe that for a second."
令赫敏惊讶的是，马尔福发出了可能是咯咯笑声的低沉声音。“我知道你一秒钟都不相信。”

"You don’t know what I believe," Hermione snapped, past the point of caring whether or not that was a petulant thing to say.
“你不知道我相信什么，”赫敏厉声说，已经不在乎这话是不是一件轻浮的事情了。

"I know that anyone who has worked in the Ministry for more than a minute is very aware that it is a cesspit."
“我知道，任何在魔法部工作超过一分钟的人都非常清楚这是一个粪坑。”

"There are good people trying to do good things at the Ministry." 
“有好人试图在魔法部做好事。”

Hermione wasn’t sure why she was defending the Ministry. In fact, she rather agreed with Malfoy’s assessment of it; it was a big part of why she didn’t want to go back. Spending years trying to make a difference when most of your co-workers were interested in little but themselves became exhausting and dispiriting. 
赫敏不知道她为什么要为魔法部辩护。事实上，她相当同意马尔福对此的评估;这是她不想回去的一个重要原因。当你的大多数同事对什么都不感兴趣，但自己却变得筋疲力尽时，花了数年时间试图有所作为。

Her Freedom of Labour Act had been a back-breaking effort that took years to see through. Hermione had found it incredibly demoralising that a piece of legislation so harmlessly beneficial to an underrepresented group had been so hard-won and received such little respect.  Kingsley could talk a big game about his grand vision for rebuilding the wizarding world in a new image but Hermione had been in the trenches and knew his idealism wasn’t trickling down to everyone. 
她的《劳工自由法》（Freedom of Labor Act）是一项艰巨的努力，花了数年时间才得以实现。赫敏发现，一项对一个代表性不足的群体如此无害的立法来之不易，却没有得到如此多的尊重，这令人难以置信地令人沮丧。金斯莱可以大谈特谈他以新形象重建魔法世界的宏伟愿景，但赫敏一直在战壕中，知道他的理想主义并没有渗透到每个人身上。

“Those people are so few and far between," Lucius said softly, swiping his hand across his desk as though removing such virtuous anomalies from their discussion. "The Ministry of Magic is a bureaucratic mess where people do not hesitate to step on one another to get ahead. They are there to line their pockets, or to put their end away in whatever young intern is stupid enough to let them. Or both." 
“那些人太少了，而且相距甚远，”卢修斯轻声说，用手在桌子上扫了一下，仿佛要从他们的讨论中消除这种道德上的异常。“魔法部是一个官僚主义的烂摊子，人们会毫不犹豫地互相踩踏以取得成功。他们在那里是为了中饱私囊，或者把自己的一端交给任何愚蠢到让他们的年轻实习生。或者两者兼而有之。

Hermione could not help the blush that rose to her cheeks at his crudity but Malfoy appeared to neither notice nor care. 
赫敏忍不住因为他的粗鲁而脸颊上泛起了红晕，但马尔福似乎既没有注意到，也没有在乎。

"We were there to take advantage of that and to push people in the right direction."
“我们在那里是为了利用这一点，并将人们推向正确的方向。”

"What exactly is the 'right' direction?"
“'正确'的方向到底是什么？”

"It's whatever we decide it is."
“这是我们决定的。”

"And how did you push them?"
“那你是怎么推动他们的？”

Malfoy smiled at her and Hermione was momentarily taken aback by the fact that he could smile and that it was actually quite a pleasant, thoroughly human-looking smile.
马尔福对她微笑，赫敏瞬间被他能笑的事实吓了一跳，而且那实际上是一个相当愉快的、完全人类的微笑。

 "My innate charm."
“我与生俱来的魅力。”

She scoffed disbelievingly. "How did you really ?"
她难以置信地嘲笑道。“你真的是怎么回事？”

"I suppose you would struggle to recognise something you utterly lack." 
“我想你会很难认出你完全缺乏的东西。”

When she did nothing but eye him stonily he gave a delicate sigh and lifted a hand to inspect his fingernails. “I’m not really sure I want to tell you.” His eyes flicked up to meet hers, the shadow of a smirk on his face.
当她什么也没做，只是目瞪口呆地看着他时，他轻轻地叹了口气，抬起一只手检查了他的指甲。“我不太确定我要告诉你。”他抬起眼睛与她对视，脸上露出一丝得意的笑容。

Hermione grit her teeth and took a breath in through her nose. “Please tell me, Mr Malfoy. I would dearly like to know.”
赫敏咬紧牙关，用鼻子吸了一口气。“请告诉我，马尔福先生。我非常想知道。

“I shouldn’t like to incriminate myself.”
“我可不想让自己自证其罪。”

“Kingsley has already told me he won’t use anything you tell me against you but if you don’t quite believe that then just don’t be overly specific.”
“金斯莱已经告诉我，他不会用你告诉我的任何东西来对付你，但如果你不太相信，那就不要太具体了。”

The shadow of a smirk solidified into a real one. “But you’ve seemed so fond of specificity and detail up until now. Are all Mudbloods so prone to inconsistency? How unsurprising.”
一个傻笑的影子凝固成了一个真实的影子。“但直到现在，你似乎一直很喜欢具体和细节。所有的泥巴种都这么容易出现不一致吗？多么不足为奇。

“ Mr Malfoy ,” Hermione said, her exasperation and anger audible. His eyes gleamed with vindictive glee. Words were the only weapons he had left and she got the impression he was rather relishing the opportunity to wield them again. Particularly against her. 
“马尔福先生，”赫敏说，她的愤怒和愤怒清晰可见。他的眼睛里闪耀着报复的喜悦。言语是他仅存的武器，她觉得他很享受再次使用文字的机会。尤其是对她。

"Bribery was always a first port of call,” he finally said with a bored sigh. “That tended to lead very neatly into blackmail. Of course, for those who, as you said, were there to do ‘good things,’” he shot her a contemptuous look, “there were always other means of persuasion.”
“贿赂永远是第一站，”他终于无聊地叹了口气说。“这往往非常巧妙地导致了勒索。当然，对于那些像你说的那样，在那里做'好事'的人，“他轻蔑地瞪了她一眼，”总有其他的劝说手段。

"You mean the Imperius curse."
“你是说帝王诅咒。”

He hummed, tipping his head first left then right. "Or a touch of...external pressure."
他哼了一声，先把头向左歪，然后向右歪。“或者一点点......外部压力。

At Hermione’s look of confusion, he leaned forward and spoke quietly. "No one likes to fear for the lives of their family, Miss Granger. It tends to add a lot of stress to one’s day."
看着赫敏困惑的神情，他向前倾身，轻声说道。“没有人喜欢担心他们家人的性命，格兰杰小姐。它往往会给一个人的一天增加很多压力。

Hermione tried to hide her revulsion from her face but she still instinctively leaned away from him. Clearly that pleased him because he gave her a wolfish grin.
赫敏试图从她的脸上掩饰她的厌恶，但她还是本能地向他靠去。显然这让他很高兴，因为他给了她一个狼一样的笑容。

"You did ask."
“你问过。”

"And your father trained you for this?"
“你爸爸就这样训练你了？”

"As his father trained him. It’s been our practice for generations."
“就像他父亲训练他一样。这是我们几代人的做法。

"So you didn’t just start doing it for Voldemort?"
“所以你不是刚开始为伏地魔做这件事的吗？”

There was a pause in which he gave her a calculating look. "Certainly not. My father did, however, view the Dark Lord as a powerful wizard with great promise and a laudable vision. As far as he was concerned, it was in the best interests of our world to help the Dark Lord rise in whatever way he could."
停顿了一会儿，他用精打细算的眼神看了她一眼。“当然不是。然而，我父亲确实将黑魔王视为一个强大的巫师，有着巨大的前途和值得称赞的愿景。对他来说，尽其所能帮助黑魔王崛起符合我们世界的最大利益。

Hermione’s eyebrows rose. "So your father was directly involved with him too?"
赫敏扬起眉毛。“所以你爸爸也直接参与了他？”

"Yes. They attended school together and moved in the same circles. I believe there was a year or two between their ages, though I cannot be sure who was the elder given my father generally treated him with deference. Father went on to become a key member of the Dark Lord's inner circle while I was at Hogwarts."
“是的。他们一起上学，在同一个圈子里活动。我相信他们的年龄相隔了一两年，但我不能确定谁是长辈，因为我父亲通常对他很尊重。当我在霍格沃茨的时候，父亲后来成为了黑魔王核心圈子的关键成员。

“The first war started before you left Hogwarts, didn’t it?”
“第一次战争在你离开霍格沃茨之前就开始了，不是吗？”

“I believe I was in my fifth year, or thereabouts.”
“我相信我当时已经五年了，或者大约是五年级。”

“Did you join the Death Eaters while you were still at school?”
“你还在上学的时候就加入了食死徒吗？”

“I was obliquely involved through my father,” Lucius said, lifting a careless shoulder. “But I didn’t receive the mark until I left school.”
“我通过我父亲隐晦地参与其中，”卢修斯说，漫不经心地抬起肩膀。“但我直到离开学校才收到分数。”

Glancing down at her watch, Hermione saw that an hour had long since passed. They’d actually done it. A full, hour-long conversation. It wasn’t much useful fodder for her history and it wasn’t exactly pleasant but it was a start. 
赫敏低头看了一眼手表，发现一个小时已经过去了很久。他们真的做到了。长达一小时的完整对话。这对她的历史没有多大用处，也不是很愉快，但这是一个开始。

“I think I’ll leave it there for this week, Mr Malfoy. I’d like to talk about your time at Hogwarts in more detail next week, so take some time to think about any interesting tidbits you’d be willing to delve into.”
“我想这周就先说吧，马尔福先生。我想在下周更详细地谈谈你在霍格沃茨的时光，所以花点时间想想你愿意深入研究的任何有趣花絮。

“There will be nothing else on my mind for the next six days,” he drawled, pushing himself out of his seat and turning to look out of the window. 
“接下来的六天里，我不会再想任何事情了，”他抽搐着，把自己从座位上推开，转身看向窗外。

“Wonderful,” Hermione said, sticking her tongue out at his back before pulling the Wheezebox over to her side of the desk. Satisfied that her things were neatly packed away, Hermione rose to her feet and pulled her bag up with her.
“太好了，”赫敏说，把舌头伸到他的背上，然后把喘息盒拉到她这边的桌子上。赫敏对她的东西收拾得整整齐满意，站起来，把她的包拉了起来。

"Miss Granger, before you go." Hermione stilled. He had turned away from the window to face her with his hands clasped behind his back, his broad shoulders pulled back. "I am led to understand that you will soon be making use of my library." 
“格兰杰小姐，在你走之前。”赫敏安静了下来。他转过身去，双手紧握在背后面对她，宽阔的肩膀向后拉。“我明白了你很快就会使用我的图书馆。”

Hermione didn’t miss the way he lingered on the word ‘my’. It made her reluctant to tell him that she had given into Draco's aggressive generosity.
赫敏没有错过他在“我的”这个词上徘徊的方式。这让她不愿意告诉他，她已经屈服于德拉科咄咄逼人的慷慨。

"The offer was extended," Hermione said, raising her chin and jutting her jaw. "I haven’t yet decided if I’m going to accept it."
“提议延长了，”赫敏说，抬起下巴，突出下巴。“我还没有决定是否要接受它。”

His left eyebrow twitched briefly upwards. "If you do use it, I would recommend that you do not, ah…go a-wandering around it unsupervised."
他的左眉毛短暂地向上抽搐了一下。“如果你真的用它，我建议你不要，啊......在无人看管的情况下在它周围闲逛。

Hermione froze while adjusting the strap of her bag and met his eyes. "Are you threatening me, Mr Malfoy?” she asked, her voice low.
赫敏在调整包包的带子时愣住了，与他的眼睛相遇。“你在威胁我吗，马尔福先生？” 她低声问道。

"Certainly not," he said, tilting his head to the side with what Hermione could only identify as an utterly false display of polite confusion. "It’s nothing but a friendly warning. I have been reliably informed of how curious and hungry for knowledge you are. Some of the books in there do not appreciate such...insatiability."
“当然不是，”他说，把头歪向一边，赫敏只能认为这是完全错误的礼貌困惑。“这只不过是一个友好的警告。我被可靠地告知你是多么的好奇和渴望知识。那里的一些书并不欣赏这样的......贪得无厌。

Swallowing, Hermione took a step backwards towards the door. "I thought the Aurors cleared all the dark artefacts out of your home." 
赫敏咽了口口水，向后退了一步，朝门口走去。“我以为傲罗已经清除了你家里所有的黑暗文物。”

"Magic does not necessarily need to be explicitly dark in order to be harmful, Miss Granger, surely you know that," he said with a condescending smile. "Perhaps consider that some of my ancestors were rather creative with their prejudice."
“魔法不一定非得是明显的黑暗才有害的，格兰杰小姐，你肯定知道这一点，”他带着居高临下的笑容说。“也许想想我的一些祖先对他们的偏见相当有创意。”

Hermione bit down, her jaw clenched to the point of pain, and glared at him. Her mind was made up; if he didn’t want her in his library then she was sure as hell going to use it. Regularly. 
赫敏咬了下去，下巴紧紧咬到疼痛的程度，瞪着他。她已经下定决心;如果他不想让她在他的图书馆里，那么她肯定会使用它。定期。

“Thank you, Mr Malfoy," she said, her smile sour and strained. "I’ll bear that in mind.” 
“谢谢你，马尔福先生，”她说，她的笑容酸涩而紧张。“我会记住这一点。”

Chapter 10
第十章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione begins moving her things into Malfoy Manor library
赫敏开始把她的东西搬进马尔福庄园图书馆

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Massively grateful to everyone reading this! Thank you <3
非常感谢所有阅读这篇文章的人！谢谢 <3

May 21st
5月21日

Hands on her hips, Hermione assessed the mounds of parchment on her kitchen table with a critical eye. She was going to take some of them to Malfoy Manor and set up her desk there so that she could divide her work into two locations. If nothing else, the Malfoy’s library seemed like it would be a good place for distraction-free research, note-taking and hand-written editing of her transcripts, mostly because she didn’t have any intention of wandering around to any great degree after Lucius Malfoy’s ‘not-threat’. 
赫敏双手叉腰，用挑剔的眼光打量着厨房桌子上的羊皮纸堆。她打算带他们中的一些人去马尔福庄园，在那里设立她的办公桌，这样她就可以把她的工作分成两个地方。如果不出意外的话，马尔福的图书馆似乎会是一个无干扰的研究、记笔记和手写编辑她的成绩单的好地方，主要是因为在卢修斯·马尔福的“非威胁”之后，她无意四处游荡。

With a purposeful nod, Hermione lifted all of her books into a cardboard box. Next went the folders containing her interviews. 
赫敏故意点了点头，把她所有的书都举进了一个纸板箱里。接下来是包含她采访的文件夹。

When the box was full, Hermione heaved it from the chair on which she’d placed it and walked it through to the living room to dump it onto the floor in front of the fireplace. Wiping her hands on her denim shorts, she caught her breath and wiped the moisture forming at her hairline. 
当盒子装满后，赫敏把它从她放它的椅子上拿起来，然后走到客厅，把它倒在壁炉前的地板上。她用手在牛仔短裤上擦了擦，喘了口气，擦去了发际线处形成的湿气。

It was an unseasonably warm May day and she was starting to regret her decision to do anything even slightly physical. One of her least favourite quirks of her flat was that its temperature dropped to freezing in the winter but it somehow managed to be swelteringly hot in spring and summer. As a result, Hermione was either swaddled in multiple layers or wearing next to nothing. She couldn’t remember a time when it’d been a happy medium. 
那是一个不合时宜的温暖的五月天，她开始后悔自己决定做任何事情，哪怕是轻微的体力活动。她最不喜欢她公寓的一个怪癖是，冬天的温度会降到冰点，但不知何故，春天和夏天却闷热得要命。结果，赫敏要么被襁褓包裹着好几层，要么什么都没穿。她不记得有什么时候这是一个快乐的媒介。

Grabbing her bag of Floo Powder from the mantlepiece, Hermione stepped into the grate and reached out to pull the heavy box in with her. Satisfied that everything was in order, Hermione dropped a handful of Floo Powder and called for the Malfoy library. 
赫敏从壁炉架上拿出她的飞路粉袋，走进炉排，伸手把沉重的盒子拉了进去。赫敏对一切都井井有条感到满意，丢下了一把飞路粉，打电话给马尔福图书馆。

As soon as she stepped out of the green flames at Malfoy Manor, dragging her box after her, Hermione remembered the temperature control charm. Goosebumps rippled up her legs and across her arms despite the sun beaming through the glass dome above her. Really, it was something she should have considered for her own home. Groaning through gritted teeth, Hermione lifted the box onto the desk and set about removing her materials. The desk was so much more spacious than her kitchen table that she was able to set her folders side by side rather than on top of one another; it had an absurdly soothing effect on her mind. Fifteen or twenty minutes had gone by when a silvery voice spoke from the doorway.
当她从马尔福庄园的绿色火焰中走出来，拖着她的盒子跟在身后时，赫敏就想起了温控咒。鸡皮疙瘩在她的腿上和手臂上荡漾，尽管阳光透过她头顶的玻璃穹顶照射进来。真的，这是她应该为自己的家考虑的事情。赫敏咬牙切齿地呻吟着，把盒子举到桌子上，开始拿走她的材料。这张桌子比她的厨房桌子要宽敞得多，以至于她能够将她的文件夹并排放置，而不是彼此重叠;它对她的心灵产生了一种荒谬的舒缓作用。十五、二十分钟过去了，一个银色的声音从门口传来。

“Hermione Granger.”
“赫敏·格兰杰。”

Hermione flinched, momentarily clutching the folder in her hands more tightly, and looked up to see a very pretty and petite brunette standing at the entrance to the library. She was dressed in a long plum-coloured dress with sweeping, gold-clasped robes to match it. 
赫敏畏缩了一下，瞬间把手里的文件夹攥得更紧了，抬头看到一个非常漂亮娇小的黑发女郎站在图书馆的门口。她穿着一件紫红色的长裙，搭配宽大的金色长袍。

“Astoria?” Hermione asked, knowing it couldn’t really be anyone else. 
“阿斯托利亚？”赫敏问道，她知道这不可能真的是其他人。

“Do you mind if I…?” Astoria trailed off, gesturing into the room.
“你介意我......？”阿斯托利亚慢慢走开，向房间里打了个手势。

“Oh my God, no. Please,” Hermione said, setting her folder down on the table and stepping around it towards Astoria. “This is your home.”
“哦，天哪，不。拜托，“赫敏说，把她的文件夹放在桌子上，绕着它走向阿斯托利亚。“这是你的家。”

“Well,” Astoria said with a friendly smile, heels clicking sharply on the floor beneath her robes as she approached. “It’s my husband and father-in-law’s home but I’m told that I’m very welcome to treat it like it's my own.”
“嗯，”阿斯托利亚友好地笑着说，当她走近时，高跟鞋在她长袍下的地板上发出尖锐的咔哒声。“这是我丈夫和岳父的家，但有人告诉我，我非常欢迎像对待自己的家一样对待它。”

That sounded very much like the kind of thing that Lucius Malfoy would say, Hermione mused with a grim expression. Even ‘good’ Pure-blood women weren’t safe from his snide disapproval, apparently – he just couched it in more backhanded terms. 
这听起来很像卢修斯·马尔福会说的那种话，赫敏沉思着，脸色阴沉。显然，即使是“好”的纯血统女性也无法避免他的冷嘲热讽——他只是用更反手的措辞来表达。

“I just wanted to make sure you were getting on okay. The wards let me know someone had arrived in the library and I assumed it would be you.”
“我只是想确保你过得好。病房让我知道有人来到了图书馆，我以为会是你。

It was only when Astoria was a couple of feet away from Hermione that it became clear that she was pregnant. It wasn’t just that it was obscured by her robes and dress; Astoria’s belly, like Astoria overall, was very small. As far as Hermione could remember from her conversations with Draco, she must have been around 6 months along. The pregnant woman glow was something Hermione had heard Ginny aggressively deride as utter nonsense but even with that, Astoria looked, to Hermione’s eye, unusually pale and tired. 
只有当阿斯托利亚离赫敏只有几英尺远时，她才清楚地知道她怀孕了。这不仅仅是因为它被她的长袍和裙子遮住了;阿斯托利亚的肚子，就像整个阿斯托利亚一样，非常小。就赫敏和德拉科的谈话记忆中，她肯定已经有六个月左右了。赫敏听到金妮咄咄逼人地嘲笑说，那孕妇的光芒完全是胡说八道，但即便如此，阿斯托利亚在赫敏的眼中，还是显得异常苍白和疲惫。

Her breathing somewhat shallow, Astoria reached the desk and gently leaned her fingertips against its surface. Hermione wondered how much she was resisting the urge to flatten her whole palm down. Draco had told Hermione of the Greengrass family blood curse and how Astoria’s frailty concerned him but this was the first time she was seeing it for herself. The fact she was wearing what sounded like bloody stilettos probably wasn't helping.
阿斯托利亚的呼吸有些浅促，她走到桌子前，轻轻地将指尖靠在桌子表面。赫敏想知道她有多抗拒想要压平整个手掌的冲动。德拉科告诉赫敏格林格拉斯家族的血诅咒，以及阿斯托利亚的虚弱如何让他感到担忧，但这是她第一次亲眼看到。她穿着听起来像是血腥细高跟鞋的事实可能无济于事。

Hermione pulled around the desk chair. “Would you like to sit down?”
赫敏在桌椅上拉了一圈。“你想坐下吗？”

“No, thank you,” Astoria said with a polite but firm smile. “I’m quite alright. You’re getting on okay?”
“不，谢谢你，”阿斯托利亚带着礼貌而坚定的微笑说。“我还好。你还好吗？

Glancing at the chair and wondering whether this was a scenario where she ought to persist, Hermione hesitated before relenting. She would hate it if someone treated her like she was made of glass, after all.  “I’m getting on very well. Thank you for arranging this.” Hermione swept her hand over the large desk. “It's generous of you to welcome a stranger into your home.”
赫敏瞥了一眼椅子，想知道这是不是她应该坚持的情况，她犹豫了一下，然后才心软了。毕竟，如果有人把她当作玻璃做的事来对待，她会讨厌的。“我过得非常好。谢谢你安排这个。赫敏用手扫过大桌子。“欢迎陌生人到你家里来真是太慷慨了。”

“Oh, well, I know we've never met but I don't really consider you a stranger,” Astoria replied with a shy smile. “I actually rather feel like I know you. Draco speaks so highly of you and you made that divine lemon cake.” Astoria paused and considered Hermione for a moment. “I rather feel that when you've eaten something someone has made for you, you're bonded in a way. Particularly if you enjoyed it.”
“哦，好吧，我知道我们从未见过面，但我并不真的认为你是陌生人，”阿斯托利亚害羞地笑着回答。“我其实更觉得我了解你。德拉科对你评价很高，你做了那个神圣的柠檬蛋糕。阿斯托利亚停顿了一下，思考了赫敏一会儿。“我宁愿觉得，当你吃了别人为你做的东西时，你们在某种程度上是紧密相连的。特别是如果你喜欢它。

Noticing that Astoria glanced searchingly around the boxes, Hermione smiled. “I don’t have any right now but I’ll pop back to the flat and make sure I leave some before I go.”
注意到阿斯托利亚四处寻找地扫视着盒子，赫敏笑了。“我现在没有，但我会回到公寓，确保在我走之前留下一些。”

A tinge of pink appeared high on Astoria’s cheeks. It was absurd that Draco Malfoy had managed to make a woman this sweet a Malfoy. “Thank you. If you need anything while you’re here don’t hesitate to call on Letty; she’ll be very happy to help you.” She rubbed her belly and added, “I’m rather slow at the moment or I’d do it myself.”
阿斯托利亚的脸颊上高高地浮现出一抹粉红色。德拉科·马尔福竟然能让一个如此甜美的女人成为马尔福，这真是荒谬。“谢谢你。如果您在这里需要什么，请随时致电 Letty;她会很乐意帮助你。她揉了揉自己的肚子，补充道，“我现在挺慢的，要不然我自己就自己做。

Hermione nodded with a smile, though she made a mental note not to call on Letty unless she desperately needed to. The elf was lovely but Hermione wasn’t sure she could take another curtsey like the first one she’d received. 
赫敏微笑着点点头，尽管她在心里记下了除非她迫切需要，否则不要打电话给莱蒂。这个小精灵很可爱，但赫敏不确定她能不能再行一次像她第一次那样的屈膝礼。

Astoria stood up straight as though she was preparing to leave but Hermione could see from her face that she wanted to say more. It was the kind of internal struggle Hermione thought it best to wait out. Finally, Astoria said confidingly, “Draco and I are very glad you’re talking to Lucius, you know.”
阿斯托利亚站直了身子，仿佛正准备离开，但赫敏从她的脸上看出她还想说更多。赫敏认为这种内心的挣扎最好还是等下去。最后，阿斯托利亚自信地说，“德拉科和我很高兴你和卢修斯说话，你知道的。

“Well, he’s doing most of the talking, really,” Hermione shrugged. “Now, at least. I'm grateful to Draco for advocating for me.”
“嗯，他大部分都在说话，真的，”赫敏耸耸肩。“至少现在。我很感谢 Draco 为我辩护。

“We just think it’ll be good for him.” 
“我们只是认为这对他有好处。”

Frowning at the hopeful earnestness on Astorias face, Hermione tilted her head, wondering just what would be good about it. “Astoria, you know I’m not a therapist, don’t you? I’m just interviewing him for academic purposes.”
赫敏对阿斯托利亚脸上充满希望的真诚皱起眉头，歪着头，想知道这有什么好处。“阿斯托利亚，你知道我不是治疗师，不是吗？我只是出于学术目的采访他。

“A...therapist?” Astoria’s confusion was polite but plain on her face.
“一个......治疗师？阿斯托利亚的困惑是礼貌的，但她的脸上却很清楚。

“Ah,” Hermione hesitated. “I suppose it’s like a kind of...Muggle mind healer?” Hermione inwardly cringed at the wholly inadequate description. 
“啊，”赫敏犹豫了。“我想这就像一种......麻瓜心灵治疗师？赫敏在心里对这个完全不恰当的描述感到畏缩。

“Oh,” Astoria laughed lightly and waved a hand, “of course not, of course not. We’re not expecting you to do anything. I just think…” Astoria glanced over her shoulder towards the door and lowered her voice when she turned back to Hermione. “He’s been locked in this house for eight years and each passing year he talks to Draco and I less and less. We barely get any visitors. Draco is worried he's giving up and I think taking part in your project could be just the social rejuvenation he needs.”
“哦，”阿斯托利亚轻轻地笑了笑，挥了挥手，“当然不是，当然不是。我们不希望您执行任何操作。我只是觉得......”阿斯托利亚回头看了一眼门口，当她转身看向赫敏时，她压低了声音。“他被锁在这所房子里八年了，每年他和德拉科和我说话的次数越来越少。我们几乎没有访客。Draco 担心他会放弃，我认为参与你的项目可能正是他需要的社交活力。

“A social...rejuvenation,” Hermione said slowly. 
“一个社交......恢复活力，“赫敏缓缓地说。

“Yes, you're an entirely new kind of company!”
“是的，你们是一家全新的公司！”

Blinking, Hermione realised she wasn't entirely sure what to say to that. It was so odd to hear a woman younger than herself talk about former Death Eater Lucius Malfoy like he was a child showing cause for concern. 
眨了眨眼，赫敏意识到她并不完全确定该说什么。听到一个比她年轻的女人谈论前食死徒卢修斯·马尔福，就像他还是个孩子一样，表现出了担忧，这真是太奇怪了。

In some senses, Hermione supposed, she was an entirely new kind of company for him. She thought it unlikely, after all, that Malfoy had ever spent more than thirty voluntary seconds in the company of a Muggle-born. Whether that was good for him was another matter. He didn't seem to think so. In fact, all the horrible things he’d been saying to her suggested to Hermione that he was less in need of new company than new victims.
从某种意义上说，赫敏想，她对他来说是一种全新的陪伴。她觉得，毕竟，马尔福不可能在一个麻瓜出身的男人的陪伴下自愿地花了超过三十秒的时间。这对他有没有好处是另一回事。他似乎不这么认为。事实上，他对她说的所有可怕的话都告诉赫敏，他不需要新的陪伴，而是新的受害者。

“Is he being nice?”
“他很好吗？”

“Nice?” Hermione choked out.
“好吗？”赫敏哽咽着说。

“He can be very…” Astoria winced and Hermione mentally filled in the gaps. Cruel ? Awful ? Evil ? “Blunt.” 
“他可以非常......”阿斯托利亚皱起了眉头，赫敏在心里填补了这些空白。 残酷？ 可怕？ 邪？“直率。”

“Yeah, he's blunt alright,” muttered Hermione. He’s something that sounds like that, anyway . 
“是啊，他直言不讳，没事，”赫敏咕哝道。 无论如何，他听起来就像那样。

Astoria's brow furrowed with concern. “Draco and I have tried so hard to talk him around after the war, we really did. To make him less...well, you know. Suffice it to say he is not my greatest fan after that.”
阿斯托利亚担忧地皱起了眉头。“战后，Draco 和我努力说服他，我们真的做到了。为了让他不那么......嗯，你知道的。可以说，在那之后他不是我最大的粉丝。

That made Hermione smile. Based on her conversations with Draco, Astoria had had a very positive effect on him, not least in relation to his openness and tolerance. She made him more kind. It wasn't all that surprising that Lucius Malfoy would resent his daughter in law for driving that particular kind of change. 
这让赫敏笑了。根据她与德拉科的谈话，阿斯托利亚对他产生了非常积极的影响，尤其是他的开放和宽容。她让他变得更加善良。卢修斯·马尔福会因为他的儿媳妇推动了这种特殊的改变而怨恨，这并不奇怪。

“We have that in common,” Hermione said with a wry smile. “Any tips?”
“我们有这个共同点，”赫敏苦笑着说。“有什么提示吗？”

Astoria giggled guiltily. “Certainly not. I think the only thing I've done that's pleased him is get pregnant.” Her smile faltered somewhat and she looked around at the door again, a hand coming up to rest on her belly protectively. “Although maybe...you haven't mentioned Narcissa in front of him have you?”
阿斯托利亚愧疚地咯咯笑着。“当然不是。我认为我做过的唯一让他高兴的事情就是怀孕了。她的笑容有些动摇，她再次环顾四周，一只手伸过来保护性地放在她的肚子上。“虽然也许......你没在他面前提到过纳西莎吗？

Hermione shook her head, trying not to show how much her curiosity about the matter was burning in her.
赫敏摇了摇头，尽量不表现出她对这件事的好奇心有多大。

“Perhaps avoid her wherever possible.”
“也许尽可能地避开她。”

Hermione raised her eyebrows. “Why?”
赫敏扬起眉毛。“为什么？”

“It's not really my place to say.” Astoria looked pained. “I probably shouldn't have even said what I've said but I just think, you know, given you're going over his past you deserve some kind of warning. She's a rather large part of it, after all. Just tread carefully.”
“这真的不是我该说的。”阿斯托利亚看起来很痛苦。“我可能甚至不应该说出我所说的话，但我只是想，你知道的，鉴于你要回顾他的过去，你应该得到某种警告。”毕竟，她是其中相当大的一部分。小心行事。

“I will,” Hermione said, frowning, “or I’ll try. Thank you.”
“我会的，”赫敏皱着眉头说，“或者我会试试。谢谢你。

“Anyway,” Astoria said, a smile returning to her face with a clap of her hands. “I’ll leave you to get on with what you were doing!”
“总之，”阿斯托利亚说，她拍了拍手，脸上又露出了笑容。“我让你继续你刚才的事！”

Hermione thanked Astoria and, rather lost in thought, waited for her to leave the library before she continued unpacking her things. So she'd been right in her thinking; Narcissa Malfoy had left the manor. It was hard to blame her. Who wanted to be locked up with a man who did nothing but scowl and snap every second of the day?
赫敏感谢了阿斯托利亚，陷入了沉思，等她离开图书馆后，才继续收拾行李。所以她的想法是对的;纳西莎·马尔福已经离开了庄园。很难责怪她。谁愿意和一个每时每刻都皱着眉头和啪的男人一起被关起来呢？

Satisfied that everything was neat and in order, Hermione lowered her box to the floor and settled in at her desk. It was ludicrously spacious; there was room for her elbows to sit on the wood rather than just on piles of parchment. Spreading six pages of one of her interviews with Professor Flitwick out across the desk, Hermione shuddered at the luxury. 
赫敏对一切都井井有条感到满意，她把箱子放到地板上，在她的书桌前坐下。它非常宽敞;她的胳膊肘有空间坐在木头上，而不仅仅是放在成堆的羊皮纸上。赫敏把她对弗立维教授的一次采访摊开了六页，对这种奢侈感到不寒而栗。

The glow of the additional space began to fade when Hermione grew increasingly cold and thirsty. Working beside her fridge was a positive, no matter how noisy Draco thought it was. Looking down at the gooseflesh skin on her legs, Hermione decided that a cup of tea was in order. 
当赫敏变得越来越寒冷和口渴时，额外空间的光芒开始消退。在她的冰箱旁边工作是一件好事，不管Draco觉得它有多吵。赫敏低头看着腿上的鸡皮，决定喝杯茶。

Opening her mouth to call for Letty, she abruptly closed it again. She wasn’t sure she wanted to hear the shrill praise from Letty again, even if it was fantastic news. Besides, what if the elf was engaged with helping Lucius Malfoy and then decided to prioritise Hermione’s request over his? He’d have her out on her rear before she could ask for a splash of milk for her tea. 
她张开嘴想呼唤莱蒂，但她突然又闭上了嘴。她不确定自己是否想再次听到 Letty 尖锐的赞美，即使这是个好消息。此外，如果这个小精灵正在帮助卢修斯·马尔福，然后决定优先考虑赫敏的要求而不是他的请求呢？他会让她躺在后面，然后她才能要一点牛奶来喝茶。

Standing and pressing her hands into her lower back, Hermione rolled onto the balls of her feet and back down again. She’d be able to find the kitchen. It was likely on the ground floor and she knew where that was. 
赫敏站起来，双手按在她的下背部，滚到她的脚掌上，然后又滚了下来。她能找到厨房。它可能在一楼，她知道那在哪里。

The warmth of the corridor outside the library made Hermione shudder with pleasure. As she made her way around the corner to the stretch where Lucius Malfoy’s office was located, she stopped by the expansive window at the end and simply stood in the rays of sunlight that were coming through it, basking like a cat.
图书馆外走廊的温暖让赫敏高兴得不寒而栗。当她绕过拐角，来到卢修斯·马尔福的办公室所在的那段路时，她在尽头的宽大窗户前停了下来，只是站在从窗户射进来的阳光下，像猫一样晒着太阳。

The view over the rear of the manor was impressive. The building led out onto a raised stone terrace where Hermione could imagine plenty of garden parties were once held. Garden parties with undoubtedly nefarious purposes. Wealth combined with evil created that kind of dissonance to Hermione’s mind—dinners for disease, fundraisers for fires, mixers for murder. Civility and inhumanity wrapped in one expensive, incongruous package. Much like Lucius Malfoy, actually.
庄园后面的景色令人印象深刻。这座建筑通向一个凸起的石头露台，赫敏可以想象这里曾经举办过很多花园派对。毫无疑问，具有邪恶目的的花园派对。财富与邪恶的结合在赫敏的心中造成了那种不和谐——疾病的晚餐，火灾的筹款活动，谋杀的混合器。文明和不人道被包裹在一个昂贵、不协调的包装中。实际上，很像卢修斯·马尔福。

A wide set of stairs dropped down into a path and a large, gurgling fountain, which was surrounded by a rolling expanse of green grass. In the distance, Hermione could see what appeared to be a rose garden and the glass roof of what could only be a greenhouse. She had visited public parks with less space. 
宽阔的楼梯向下延伸到一条小路和一个巨大的、潺潺流淌的喷泉，喷泉周围环绕着一片连绵起伏的绿草。在远处，赫敏可以看到一个似乎是玫瑰园的东西和只能是温室的玻璃屋顶。她去过空间较小的公园。

Snorting at the sheer obnoxiousness of it all, Hermione was about to turn away from the window when a figure caught her eye. Squinting through the glass, she realised from the long hair that it was Lucius Malfoy. He was strolling through the sunny grounds in his shirtsleeves, waistcoat and suit trousers. It wasn’t his usual full robes, Hermione conceded, but he must be roasting . 
赫敏对这一切的纯粹令人讨厌哼了一声，正要转身离开窗户，这时一个身影引起了她的注意。透过玻璃眯起眼睛，她从长发中意识到那是卢修斯·马尔福。他穿着衬衫袖子、背心和西装裤，在阳光明媚的草地上漫步。这不是他平时的长袍，赫敏承认，但他一定是在烤。

It was odd witnessing him outside in greenery; almost like seeing a mirage. It was even more odd when a grey, straggly dog ran up alongside him and he leaned down to rub its head, leading it further along the garden with a gentle hand. Head pulled back, Hermione looked at her reflection in the glass and blinked several, befuddled times. Could a man who would treat most people like they were no more than dirt on his shoe really be a dog person? Apparently. 
在外面的绿树丛中目睹他真是奇怪;几乎就像看到海市蜃楼一样。更奇怪的是，一只灰色的、散乱的狗从他身边跑过来，他俯下身来揉它的头，用温柔的手带着它沿着花园走得更远。赫敏把头往后拉，看着镜子里自己的倒影，困惑地眨了几次眼。一个把大多数人当作鞋上的泥土对待的人，真的会是一个爱狗的人吗？显然地。

With a surprised hum , Hermione turned and made her way down the corridor. At least he was outside, she thought as she passed his office door; that meant she didn’t need to worry about bumping into him.
赫敏惊讶地哼了一声，转身沿着走廊走去。至少他在外面，她经过他的办公室门时想;这意味着她不需要担心撞到他。

“Ah, you.”
“啊，你。”

The unexpected voice almost made Hermione trip over her own feet. Looking wildly around, she saw the portrait of the dark-haired Malfoy wife staring at her again. 
这个出乎意料的声音差点让赫敏绊倒自己的脚。她疯狂地环顾四周，看到黑发马尔福妻子的画像再次盯着她看。

“Me.”
“我。”

“Are you lost again ? I do not wish to make you feel like a fool but you’re facing in the wrong direction entirely this time.”
“你又迷路了吗？我不想让你觉得自己像个傻瓜，但这次你完全面对了错误的方向。

“Oh, no. I’m not looking for the study this time I’m—well, I suppose I am trying to get somewhere. Do you think you could show me the way to the kitchen?”
“哦，不。这次我不是在找书房，我是——嗯，我想我是想去某个地方。你觉得你能给我指点去厨房的路吗？

The portrait raised an eyebrow and adjusted her belt with a fussy air. “My dear, you know I am a portrait and not a map, yes?”
这幅画像扬起了眉毛，挑剔地调整了一下她的腰带。“亲爱的，你知道我是一幅肖像而不是地图，对吧？”

Hermione blushed, chastened. “Well, yes but—”
赫敏脸红了，懊恼了。“嗯，是的，但是——”

“And that this family has not yet fallen so far it does not have house elves that are more than equipped to help you?”
“而且这个家族还没有衰落到如此地步，它没有足够能力帮助你的家养小精灵吗？”

“No, I know that, but—”
“不，我知道，但是——”

“So, if you know these things,” the portrait said with an incredulous stare, “why are you asking me ?” 
“所以，如果你知道这些事情，”画像用难以置信的眼神说，“你为什么要问我？

Hermione was asking herself the same question. “I just thought you might know,” she said, rather pathetically.
赫敏也在问自己同样的问题。“我只是觉得你可能知道，”她相当可怜地说。

Clearly unwilling to give the impression that she didn’t know something about her own home, the portrait frowned and adjusted her sleeves. “Well, it’s not that I don’t know… ” 
显然不愿意给人一种她对自己的家一无所知的印象，画像皱着眉头调整了一下袖子。“嗯，不是我不知道......”

“So can you show me?”
“所以你能给我看看吗？”

The portrait eyed Hermione, the very image of irritation, then finally sighed and rolled her eyes. “Oh, very well. Come.”
画像盯着赫敏，正是那个恼怒的形象，然后终于叹了口气，翻了个白眼。“哦，很好。来吧。

They walked in silence for a time, Hermione hearing the occasional shuffle and angry “ move ” as the witch pushed her way into a frame in which she wasn’t welcome. As they made their way down a corridor with more landscapes than other portraits, the witch used the reduction in confrontation to finally speak. 
他们沉默地走了一会儿，赫敏听到了偶尔的拖曳声和愤怒的“移动”声，因为女巫把她推入了一个不受欢迎的框架。当他们走过一条风景比其他肖像更多的走廊时，女巫利用对峙的减少终于开口了。

“Are you a Muggle?”
“你是麻瓜吗？”

“No.” Hermione glanced at the portrait, surprised the word Muggle hadn’t been spat at her like a spoiled bite of food but rather uttered with simple curiosity. “I'm a witch.” On receiving a doubtful look, Hermione reached behind her and slid her wand out from her back pocket, waving it in the air. “I have a wand. See?” 
“不。”赫敏瞥了一眼那幅画像，惊讶于麻瓜这个词并没有像一口变质的食物一样被吐向她，而是带着简单的好奇说出来。“我是个女巫。”赫敏收到了疑惑的眼神，把手伸到她身后，从后兜里掏出魔杖，在空中挥舞着。“我有一根魔杖。看到了吗？

“So you do,” the witch said, lapsing back into silence.
“所以你也知道，”女巫说，又陷入了沉默。

Hermione couldn’t resist investigating as they approached the main stairs. “Why do you think I'm a Muggle?”
赫敏在他们接近主楼梯时忍不住调查。“你为什么觉得我是麻瓜？”

“You don’t wear robes.”
“你不穿长袍。”

“Oh! Well, I feel they get in the way,” Hermione said, specifically thinking of the day at the Ministry when the sleeve of her robe had brushed across the wet ink of one of her proposals and ruined two hours of work. That day had changed everything for her wardrobe when she had a choice over what she could wear.
“哦！嗯，我觉得他们碍事了，“赫敏说，特别想起了在魔法部的那一天，她的长袍袖子拂过了她一个提案的湿墨水，毁了两个小时的工作。那一天改变了她衣橱的一切，因为她可以选择自己可以穿什么。

“Only if you're utterly clumsy,” the portrait replied with a derisive chuckle. “I'm surprised the master allows you to wander his home dressed like that.”
“除非你完全笨拙，”画像嘲讽地笑着回答。“我很惊讶主人允许你穿着那样在他家里闲逛。”

“I think the ‘master’ is surprised he's letting me wander his home full stop. My clothes are the least of his worries.”
“我觉得'主人'很惊讶他让我在他家徘徊。我的衣服是他最不担心的。

They had come to a stop and the portrait cast an assessing eye over Hermione, seemingly oblivious to the irate monk whose prayers she had just interrupted. “You might be right,” she said vaguely. “Anyway, turn right at the bottom of those stairs, right again, through the door, and it’s straight at the end.”
他们停了下来，画像用评估的目光注视着赫敏，似乎没有注意到她刚刚打断了那个愤怒的修道士的祈祷。“你可能是对的，”她含糊地说。“总之，在楼梯的底部右转，再次右转，穿过门，在尽头是笔直的。”

“You’re not coming?”
“你不来？”

“I do not care for the ground floor artwork,” the witch said sniffily. “Good luck.”
“我不在乎底层的艺术品，”女巫轻蔑地说。“祝你好运。”

Watching the witch push the monk to the side, Hermione let out a disbelieving little laugh as she descended the stairs on her own. She was going to find out exactly who she’d been talking to—she had enough Malfoy family trees to hand to do so.
看着女巫把修道士推到一边，赫敏自己走下楼梯时发出了难以置信的笑声。她要弄清楚她到底在和谁说话——她手头有足够多的马尔福家谱可以这样做。

Following the portrait’s instructions, Hermione found the kitchen in a matter of minutes. As she stood in the doorway and stared at the very large room in front of her, Hermione wished she’d also asked for the location of the kettle. And the cups. And maybe the teabags. 
按照画像的指示，赫敏在几分钟内就找到了厨房。当她站在门口，盯着眼前这个非常大的房间时，赫敏希望她也问了水壶的位置。还有杯子。也许还有茶包。

Squaring her shoulders, Hermione began opening cupboards, starting with those closest to her. Very quickly, she managed to find a china cup and a stainless steel teapot. She was bent over, rifling through one of the bottom cupboards looking for a teabag when she heard someone clear their throat. 
赫敏挺直肩膀，开始打开橱柜，从离她最近的人开始。很快，她就找到了一个瓷杯和一个不锈钢茶壶。她弯下腰，在底部的一个橱柜里翻找茶包，这时她听到有人清了清嗓子。

“Can I help you?”
“我能帮你吗？”

Flying upwards into a standing position, narrowly avoiding bashing the back of her head on the underside of the worktop, Hermione spun around to find herself looking at a very irritated Lucius Malfoy. Positively furious Lucius Malfoy, actually. Seething.
赫敏向上飞到一个站着的姿势，勉强避免了后脑勺撞到台面的底部，赫敏转过身来，发现自己正看着非常恼火的卢修斯·马尔福。实际上，卢修斯·马尔福非常生气。沸腾。

“No,” Hermione breathed, shaking her head and taking a step backwards. 
“不，”赫敏喘着气，摇了摇头，向后退了一步。

As though mirroring her, he took a step forward, then another. She was so desperate to keep at least three feet between them, it was mere seconds before she found herself wedged in the corner of the counters. There was no desk between them, she needed the desk between them. A beautifully polished, finely carved no man's land.
仿佛在模仿她，他向前迈了一步，然后又向前迈了一步。她如此拼命地想与他们之间保持至少三英尺的距离，仅仅几秒钟后，她就发现自己被困在柜台的角落里。他们之间没有桌子，她需要他们之间的桌子。一片打磨精美、雕刻精美的无人区。

“So you were just looting my kitchen for no reason, were you? Interviews not enough? You have to find out what I eat for every meal?”
“所以你只是无缘无故地抢劫了我的厨房，是吗？采访还不够？你得弄清楚我每顿饭吃什么吗？

“I was looking for teabags,” Hermione explained hurriedly, gesturing to the cup and teapot she’d left on the kitchen counter. 
“我在找茶包，”赫敏急忙解释道，指着她留在厨房柜台上的杯子和茶壶。

He stopped abruptly, looking in the direction she had pointed and then back at her disbelievingly. “We have a house elf, Miss Granger.”
他突然停了下来，看向她指的方向，然后难以置信地回头看向她。“我们有一个家养小精灵，格兰杰小姐。”

“I know but I didn’t want to bother her and I’m quite particular about brewing...my tea,” Hermione grew quiet when she saw his eyebrows were lowering with every word. 
“我知道，但我不想打扰她，而且我对酿造很讲究......我的茶，“赫敏看到他每说一个字都低下眉毛，她变得安静了下来。

“When I relented to Draco’s badgering it was because I was led to believe that you would be in my library and nowhere else . Being subjected to you at weekly intervals is bad enough; I will not abide you roaming my home, accosting me as I go about my day.”
“当我对德拉科的纠缠心软时，那是因为我被引导相信你会在我的图书馆里，而不是其他地方。每周都受制于你已经够糟糕的了;我不会容忍你在我家里闲逛，在我一天中搭讪。

“I didn’t accost you,” Hermione said indignantly. “I was just looking for a tea bag. If anything, you’re accosting me! ”
“我没有跟你搭讪，”赫敏愤愤不平地说。“我只是在找一个茶包。如果有的话，你是在跟我搭讪！”

If at all possible, he looked even angrier and Hermione hurriedly added, “I thought you’d have known I was here, anyway. Astoria said she sensed my arrival on the wards.”
如果可能的话，他看起来更生气了，赫敏急忙补充道，“反正我以为你早就知道我在这里了。阿斯托利亚说她感觉到我到了病房。

“I am rather disconnected from the wards of Malfoy Manor these days.” He clenched his right hand into a fist and Hermione’s eyes travelled down his arm, landing on his ankle. 
“这些天我和马尔福庄园的守卫们完全脱节了。”他把右手握成拳头，赫敏的目光顺着他的手臂滑过，落在他的脚踝上。

“Does the Magic Dampener do that?” she asked softly, her surprise diluting some of her outrage. It struck her as rather dangerous that he would be unable to sense when the wards of his home were being tampered with. He wasn’t exactly enemy-free, even eight years after the war.
“魔法阻尼器能做到这一点吗？”她轻声问道，她的惊讶冲淡了她的一些愤怒。她觉得相当危险，因为他无法感觉到他家的病房何时被篡改。即使在战后八年，他也不是完全没有敌人。

“You can hardly be connected to magical wards when you have no magic, Miss Granger,” he ground out. “Use your brain .”
“如果你没有魔法，你就很难连接到魔法守卫，格兰杰小姐，”他停下脚步。“用你的脑子。”

“Use your manners,” Hermione snapped, instinctively defending any slight on her intelligence.
“用你的礼仪，”赫敏厉声说，本能地为她的智力辩护。

“I hardly think you are in a position to criticise my manners when you are rifling around my home like a nasty little sneak thief.”
“我不认为你有资格批评我的举止，因为你像个讨厌的小偷偷一样在我家里乱来。”

“I just wanted a cup of tea! ” Hermione exclaimed, painfully aware that his point was actually somewhat valid.
“我只是想喝杯茶！”赫敏惊呼道，痛苦地意识到他的观点其实还有些道理。

A low growl sounded in his throat and he rubbed a hand upwards along his jaw. He moved so suddenly that Hermione automatically went to grip the handle of her wand. Rather than approach her, however, he marched to a cupboard on the opposite side of the kitchen that she hadn’t reached yet and pulled out a metal tin which he slammed onto the counter with enough force to make Hermione cover her ears. 
他的喉咙里发出一声低沉的咆哮，他用一只手顺着他的下巴向上揉了揉。他的动作如此突然，以至于赫敏不由自主地去握住了她的魔杖手柄。然而，他没有靠近她，而是走到厨房对面她还没够到的橱柜前，拿出一个金属罐子，砰的一声砸在柜台上，力气足以让赫敏捂住耳朵。

Opening the tin, he grabbed a teabag from within and threw it into the stainless steel kettle Hermione had found. As she watched him turn the tap on full, Hermione mused to herself that it was the most aggressive tea-making she had ever seen. And a very odd method. When he slammed the kettle down on the stove, he turned to Hermione.
打开罐子，他从里面抓起一个茶包，扔进了赫敏找到的不锈钢水壶里。当她看着他把水龙头开满时，赫敏沉思着，这是她见过的最激进的泡茶。而且是一个非常奇怪的方法。当他把水壶砸在炉子上时，他转向赫敏。

“Brew your tea and. Get. Out.”
“泡好你的茶，然后。出去。

Taking her wand out, eyes on him the entire time, she cautiously approached the stove and lit it with a non-verbal Incendio. 
她拿出魔杖，全程盯着他，小心翼翼地靠近炉子，用非语言的燃烧点燃了它。

“Are you just going to stand there the entire time?” she asked, eyeing his folded arms and angry glare. It could have boiled the water on its own. 
“你打算一直站在那里吗？”她问道，盯着他交叉的手臂和愤怒的目光。它本来可以自己把水煮沸的。

“Yes. You are going to make your tea and get out and I am going to make sure of it.”
“是的。你要泡茶出去，我来确保一下。

The wait for the water to boil was truly agonising. Hermione had never stood in a more tense silence, even when she and Ron had been fighting. Harry’s standoff with Voldemort had been less tense. The Cold War had been less tense and probably hadn’t felt as long, either. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw his gaze was fixed on her and she shuffled on the spot self-consciously. Unable to cope with the silence and judgement anymore, Hermione spoke.
等待水沸腾真的很痛苦。赫敏从来没有像现在这样紧张地沉默过，即使她和罗恩一直在打架。哈利与伏地魔的对峙没有那么紧张。冷战没有那么紧张，可能也没有那么长。她用眼角的余光看到他的目光正盯着她，她不自觉地在原地拖着脚。赫敏再也无法应付这种沉默和评判，开口了。

“Who’s the witch in the blue robes whose portrait is in the corridor outside your study?”
“那个穿蓝色长袍的女巫是谁，她的画像就放在你书房外面的走廊里？”

For a moment, she thought he wasn’t going to reply. In fact, it actually seemed like he really did consider ignoring her but an exasperated little nasal exhale signalled her victory. “Sabine Malfoy. I believe she married my ancestor Magnus Malfoy in the late 17th century. His portrait is on the ground floor somewhere.”
有那么一刻，她觉得他不打算回答。事实上，他似乎真的考虑过无视她，但一声恼怒的小鼻涕呼气标志着她的胜利。“萨宾·马尔福。我相信她在 17 世纪末嫁给了我的祖先马格努斯·马尔福。他的画像在一楼的某个地方。

Remembering what Sabine had told her about not wishing to visit the ground floor artwork, Hermione barely stifled her snort of laughter.
想起萨宾告诉她不想去一楼的艺术品的话，赫敏勉强忍住了她的笑声。

“I fail to see what is amusing in what I just said,” he said coldly.
“我看不出我刚才说的话有什么好笑的，”他冷冷地说。

“Oh, no, it’s...she’s good value.”
“哦，不，这是......她很有价值。

“Good...value?” he asked, his tone making Hermione think of an alien visiting Earth for the first time. “I do not know what it cost to commission her portrait so I hardly think you’re in a position to make such an assessment.”
“很好......值吗？“他问道，他的语气让赫敏想起了第一次访问地球的外星人。“我不知道委托她画像要花多少钱，所以我几乎不认为你有能力做出这样的评估。”

“I mean I like her.”
“我是说我喜欢她。”

“Most visitors find her abrasive and overly forward,” he said and Hermione thought she detected some surprise in his voice.
“大多数来访者都觉得她粗鲁，过于前卫，”他说，赫敏觉得她从他的声音中察觉到了一些惊讶。

“Maybe that’s why I like her.”
“也许这就是我喜欢她的原因。”

A crease appeared between his brows and he titled his head. As soon as the kettle started to whistle, Hermione lifted it from the stove with no small amount of relief and carried it over to her cup to pour. “I think there’s probably enough for two; do you want some?” she asked, forcing a casual nonchalance into her voice to hide how keen she was to leave.
他的眉毛之间出现了一条皱纹，他给自己的头起了个名字。水壶一响起，赫敏就松了一口气，把它从炉子里拿了起来，端到她的杯子里倒了。“我认为可能足够两个人使用;你想要一些吗？“她问道，声音中带着漫不经心的冷漠，以掩饰她有多么渴望离开。

Glancing over her shoulder, Hermione saw he was thin-lipped and absolutely not in the mood. “Just take your tea and get out, Miss Granger.”
赫敏回头瞥了一眼，发现他嘴唇薄薄的，完全没有心情。“拿你的茶出去吧，格兰杰小姐。”

Placing the kettle back on the stove, Hermione extinguished the flame and picked up her cup, gritting her teeth in an attempt to ignore the searing heat emanating from it. Asking for milk would be a mistake. Asking for honey would be even worse. Stepping around Malfoy in a wide circle, Hermione made for the door. 
赫敏把水壶放回炉子上，熄灭了火焰，拿起了她的杯子，咬紧牙关，试图无视它散发出的灼热。要奶是错误的。要蜂蜜会更糟糕。赫敏绕着马尔福绕了一大圈，向门口走去。

“Next time you are tempted to venture forth from the library, Miss Granger,” Lucius began, prompting Hermione to look back at him, “don’t.”
“下次你想从图书馆出去的时候，格兰杰小姐，”卢修斯开始说，让赫敏回头看他，“不要。

With a quiet nod of understanding, she exited the kitchen and didn’t stop walking until she was back in the library with the door shut tight. When she put her cup down and looked at her hands, the scalding cup had left them red raw.
她轻声点头表示理解，走出了厨房，直到她回到图书馆，门紧闭着。当她放下杯子，看着自己的手时，滚烫的杯子已经把它们染红了。

Chapter 11
第十一章Chapter Summary
本章小结

The interviews continue and Hermione sees something she shouldn't. Uh oh.
采访继续进行，赫敏看到了她不该看到的东西。呃哦。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

I struggled a bit with this chapter but fuck it! It feels about as ready as it'll ever be and if I don't push it out I'll tinker until I lose my mind and won't get on with the rest of the writing. Thank you all for continuing to read <3
我对这一章有点挣扎，但去他妈的！它感觉就像它已经准备好了一样，如果我不把它推出来，我会修补直到我失去理智，不会继续剩下的写作。感谢大家继续阅读 <3

May 25th  
5 月 25 日

As soon as Hermione arrived in Lucius Malfoy’s study, she could tell something was off. For one thing, there was a faint smell of firewhiskey in the room. For another, the man himself was sitting behind his desk and it looked to Hermione like he could have been there for several days. She got the impression he’d been reading something when she walked through the door but he slammed a sheet of parchment over it at the sight of her.
赫敏一来到卢修斯·马尔福的书房，就看得出来有些不对劲。首先，房间里有一股淡淡的火威士忌气味。另一方面，那个男人自己就坐在他的桌子后面，在赫敏看来，他可能已经在那里呆了好几天了。当她走进门时，她觉得他一直在看什么，但他一看到她，就把一张羊皮纸砸在上面。

“Knock!" he snarled, his hand pressed flat against the parchment.
“咚咚！”他咆哮着，手平压在羊皮纸上。

"I did,” Hermione cried disbelievingly, looking back at the door through which she’d just entered. “Twice!"
“我知道，”赫敏难以置信地喊道，回头看了看她刚刚进来的那扇门。“两次！”

That shut him up , Hermione thought with grim satisfaction. Though it didn't stop him glaring as he muttered, "Well sit down, then."
这让他闭嘴了，赫敏满意地想。不过这并没有阻止他瞪着眼睛，他喃喃自语道，“那么，坐下吧。

While Hermione arranged the equipment, he took a swig from a short crystal glass. A surreptitious glance at its amber contents while she adjusted her quill told Hermione that it was probably firewhiskey. At 2pm? Something was definitely off. 
赫敏在整理设备时，从一个短小的水晶杯中啜饮了一口。赫敏在调整羽毛笔时偷偷地瞥了一眼琥珀色的东西，告诉赫敏这可能是火威士忌。下午 2 点？肯定有什么不对劲。

"What?" he asked. Perhaps her glance hadn't been as covert as she'd thought.
“什么？”也许她的眼神并不像她想象的那么隐蔽。

"Nothing," said Hermione innocently, deciding that bringing up the drinking habits of a man who had possibly been drinking for a while probably wasn't the best idea. 
“没什么，”赫敏天真地说，她觉得提起一个可能已经喝了一段时间酒的男人的饮酒习惯可能不是最好的主意。

Hermione drew her lower lip between her teeth to bite anxiously at it. Recording him wouldn't be the best idea, either. 
赫敏用牙齿咬住下唇，焦急地咬着它。录制他也不是最好的主意。

"Mr Malfoy are you…" Hermione took a fortifying breath and raised her eyes to his. "Are you in a fit state to be interviewed today?"
“马尔福先生，你是......”赫敏深吸一口气，抬起眼睛看向他。“你今天身体状况适合接受采访吗？”

His eyes narrowed dangerously. "What are you insinuating, Miss Granger?"
他危险地眯起了眼睛。“你在暗示什么，格兰杰小姐？”

"I think you've been drinking and I don't want to record you if you're not in a fit state to be recorded." It was direct but it had been him who had previously told her to opt for that over the delicacy she apparently lacked.
“我觉得你一直在喝酒，如果你的身体状况不适合被记录下来，我不想记录你。”这很直接，但之前是他告诉她选择那个，而不是她显然缺乏的美味。

"Ah, am I being treated to your famous academic ethics ?"
“啊，我受到了你著名的学术道德的对待吗？”

"I hardly think they're my–"
“我几乎不认为它们是我的——”

"Draco told me all about them," he said, pausing to take another drink. Of course he had. "I am surprised that you would extend them to me."
“德拉科把他们的事情都告诉我了，”他说，停下来又喝了一杯。他当然有。“我很惊讶你会把它们扩展到我。”

"I’m not here to take advantage of you, Mr Malfoy. I thought I made that perfectly clear."
“我不是来占你的便宜的，马尔福先生。我认为我把这说得非常清楚。

"Crystal," he said, raising his glass in a mocking salute and taking another drink. Oh, he's got to be a little pissed , Hermione thought. "I wish to proceed."
“Crystal，”他说，举起酒杯，嘲讽地敬了个礼，又喝了一杯。 哦，他一定有点生气，赫敏想。“我想继续。”

"If you're sure."
“如果你确定的话。”

"Keep your snide, doubtful little tone to yourself, Miss Granger. I don’t appreciate it."
“把你那冷嘲热讽、怀疑的小语气藏在心里，格兰杰小姐。我不欣赏它。

Hermione was ready to start recording when the crack of apparition caused her to pull her wand back. It was Letty. The house elf was levitating a tray laden with tea and sandwiches above her head, her already wrinkled forehead further creased with concentration as she kept it steady.  
赫敏正准备开始录音，这时幽灵的噼啪声让她把魔杖缩了回来。是莱蒂。家养小精灵将一个装满茶和三明治的托盘悬浮在头顶，她本已布满皱纹的额头在保持稳定时更加专注地皱起了眉头。

Hermione leaned forward to snatch up the Wheezebox as the house elf clicked her fingers to make the tray shoot forward. Malfoy rolled his eyes and lifted his firewhiskey high in the air as the heavily-laden silver slid over the surface of his desk, thoroughly disrupting its former neatness. A couple of sheets of parchment fluttered to the floor but he didn’t even spare them a glance and Hermione wasn’t about to start picking things up for him. 
赫敏向前倾身抢起了喘息盒，而家养小精灵则咔嚓咔嚓地打了个响指，让托盘向前飞去。马尔福翻了个白眼，将他的火威士忌高高举向空中，沉重的银子滑过他的桌子表面，彻底破坏了它以前的整洁。几张羊皮纸飘落在地板上，但他甚至没有看一眼，赫敏也不打算开始为他收拾东西。

"Tea and sandwiches for Master and Miss Granger," said Letty breathlessly, sparing a second to direct a shiny-eyed look at Hermione
“给格兰杰少爷和小姐的茶和三明治，”莱蒂上气不接下气地说，抽出一秒钟的时间，用闪亮的眼睛看了赫敏一眼

And Miss Granger? 
格兰杰小姐呢？

Still clutching the Wheezebox, Hermione blinked down at the tray and then up at Malfoy who seemed wholly unbothered. With a little wave of his hand and a murmured ‘thank you’, he dismissed the bowing Letty.
赫敏仍然抓着喘息盒，对着托盘眨了眨眼，然后又对马尔福眨了眨眼，马尔福似乎完全不在意。他轻轻地挥了挥手，低声说了声“谢谢”，然后打发了鞠躬的莱蒂。

"Is there any particular reason you look so astonished by tea and sandwiches, Miss Granger?” he asked, sounding weary. “I am well aware you have consumed them before. In my home, no less."
“格兰杰小姐，你对茶和三明治感到如此惊讶，有什么特别的原因吗？”“我很清楚你以前吃过它们。在我家，同样如此。

"These are for me?" she asked, carefully setting the Wheezbox back in place.
“这些是给我的吗？” 她问道，小心翼翼地将 Wheezbox 放回原位。

"You are quite self-centred, aren’t you?" he said, shooting her a stern look as he lifted a cup of tea and deposited it on her side of the tray. How odd the moments were, Hermione thought, when his manners overpowered his prejudice. He didn’t seem to notice. "These are as much for myself as they are for you. You’re not the only one who unintentionally abstains from food when occupied by other things."
“你很以自我为中心，不是吗？”他说，一边严厉地瞪了她一眼，一边举起一杯茶，把它放在她这边的托盘上。赫敏想，当他的举止压倒了他的偏见时，这些时刻是多么奇怪。他似乎没有注意到。“这些对我自己和对你一样重要。你不是唯一一个在被其他事情占据时无意中不吃东西的人。

Rubbing his bleary eyes with one hand, he lifted his own cup of tea towards himself with the other. His state of dress was pristine, as usual, but he himself was noticeably not. There was a shadow around his jaw and his complexion had a greyness that tended to follow prolonged periods of little sleep. It was disconcerting to see him so...dishevelled. 
他用一只手揉着朦胧的眼睛，另一只手把自己的茶杯举向自己。他的衣着一如既往地朴素，但他自己显然不是。他的下巴周围有阴影，他的肤色呈灰色，这种灰色往往是由于长时间的睡眠不足造成的。看到他如此......蓬乱。

"I meant what I said, Mr Malfoy; we don't have to talk today."
“我说的是真的，马尔福先生;我们今天不必交谈。

"And I meant what I said," he said coldly. "Begin."
“我说的是真的，”他冷冷地说。“开始。”

Still not entirely in agreement with his insistence, Hermione tapped the Wheezebox and then dropped her wand into her open bag. After a brief hesitation, she lifted a sandwich from the plate on the tray. Smoked salmon – her favourite. 
赫敏仍然不完全同意他的坚持，她敲了敲 Wheezebox，然后将魔杖放进了她敞开的袋子里。犹豫了一会儿，她从托盘上的盘子里拿起了一个三明治。烟熏鲑鱼 - 她的最爱。

"So, we stopped just short of discussing your attendance at Hogwarts in our last meeting. Would you mind giving me a sort of overview of your school career?"
“所以，我们在上次会议中就没有讨论你去霍格沃茨的事情了。你介意给我介绍一下你的学校生涯吗？

Hermione tried not to stare as he poured the remainder of his firewhiskey into his tea and stirred it neatly with a spoon. The spoon didn’t clink loudly against the cup as it did when she stirred her tea. He took a slow sip. Surely that tastes vile . His expression didn’t change if it was.
赫敏尽量不盯着他看，他把剩下的火威士忌倒进茶里，然后用勺子整齐地搅拌。勺子没有像她搅拌茶时那样在杯子上发出响亮的叮当声。他慢慢地啜了一口。 这肯定很糟糕。如果是的话，他的表情也没有改变。

"I was a successful Hogwarts student, overall,” he finally said, lowering his cup with a satisfied sigh. “I was sorted into Slytherin and excelled in my classes. When I reached the upper school, I was made Prefect and became a member of Horace Slughorn's club. The latter was, admittedly, more of a chore than a pleasure but it provided me with the appropriate connections for the role I would play in the Ministry and that pleased my father. ‘Make friends with the right sort’ is something of an unofficial family motto."
“总的来说，我是一个成功的霍格沃茨学生，”他终于说，满意地叹了口气，放下了杯子。“我被分到了斯莱特林，在我的课堂上表现出色。当我进入高中时，我被任命为级长，并成为 Horace Slughorn 俱乐部的成员。诚然，后者与其说是一种乐趣，不如说是一件苦差事，但它为我提供了适当的联系，使我在事工中扮演的角色感到高兴，这让我父亲很高兴。'与正确的人交朋友'是一句非正式的家庭座右铭。

I’m beginning to think ‘Sins of the Father’ could be another , Hermione thought wryly. 
我开始觉得《父之罪》可能是另一部，赫敏讽刺地想。

"I'm surprised you would have wanted to be a Prefect," she said aloud, pursuing the less combative path as she had tried so hard to do in their previous meetings.
“我很惊讶你会想成为一名级长，”她大声说，追求着一条不那么好斗的道路，就像她在之前的会议中努力做到的那样。

"Why exactly?"
“到底为什么？”

"Well, there are an awful lot of rules and responsibilities involved with the role. Forgive me, Mr Malfoy, but you don't strike me as being the rule-obeying type."
“嗯，这个角色涉及很多规则和责任。原谅我，马尔福先生，但你可别觉得我是那种遵守规则的人。

He delicately selected a sandwich from the tray and took an incredibly neat bite. Not a single crumb dropped and had he not been wearing the Magic Dampener, Hermione would have suspected some kind of siphoning spell at work. He chewed slowly, considering her before answering.
他小心翼翼地从托盘中挑选了一个三明治，咬了一口，非常整洁。没有一块面包屑掉下来，如果他没有戴着魔法阻尼器，赫敏会怀疑有什么虹吸咒在起作用。他慢慢地咀嚼着，在回答之前打量着她。

"Surely after our discussion about the Ministry last week you know why I would have wanted to be a Prefect." When Hermione did nothing but shrug he rolled his eyes. "Being in a position of power makes it much easier to break the rules, Miss Granger. It's quite simple."
“当然，在我们上周讨论过魔法部的事情之后，你知道我为什么会想成为一名级长。”赫敏除了耸耸肩什么也没做，他翻了个白眼。“身居高位更容易打破规则，格兰杰小姐。这很简单。

Hermione recalled Ron confiscating items from younger students with a grim expression. She imagined Lucius Malfoy's rule breaking had been a touch more sinister than that.
赫敏回忆起罗恩没收了低年级学生的东西，脸上露出了严肃的表情。她想象着卢修斯·马尔福的违规行为比这更险恶。

“And you didn’t play Quidditch?”
“你没有打魁地奇吗？”

A vaguely offended look passed over his face. “Of course not. I had neither the time nor the inclination. I abhor broomsticks; an utterly inelegant method of travel."
他的脸上掠过一丝隐约的冒犯。“当然不是。我既没有时间，也没有兴趣。我讨厌扫帚;一种完全不优雅的旅行方式。

“Oh!” It was fair enough, Hermione supposed, looking him over. As far as she could tell through the layers of his robes, he was tall and fairly lean—not a bad build for a Chaser she would sure Ron would say—but she still found it rather difficult to imagine Lucius Malfoy on a broomstick. It’d mess up his hair.
“哦！”这很公平，赫敏想，一边打量着他。从他那层层的长袍中可以看出，他个子高大，相当瘦弱——她确信罗恩会这么说，对于一个追逐者来说，这个身材还不错——但她还是觉得很难想象卢修斯·马尔福骑着扫帚的样子。这会弄乱他的头发。

"Why do you sound so surprised?" he asked, eyeing her over the rim of his cup as he raised it for another drink.
“你为什么听起来这么惊讶？”他问道，一边盯着她的杯子边缘，一边举起杯子准备再喝一杯。

Hermione shrugged and crossed her legs. "Well, Mal—I mean, your son was always so keen on Quidditch and I just assumed that, like most things, it was because he wanted to impress you."
赫敏耸耸肩，盘起双腿。“嗯，马尔——我是说，你儿子总是那么热衷于魁地奇，我只是觉得，就像大多数事情一样，那是因为他想给你留下深刻印象。”

"I imagine it was," Malfoy lowered his cup to the desk and sat back, leaning one elbow on the arm of his chair while clasping his hands.
“我想是这样，”马尔福把杯子放到桌子上，坐回去，一只手肘靠在椅子的扶手上，双手紧握。

"Why would he think it would impress you if you’re not interested in it?"
“如果你对它不感兴趣，他为什么会认为它会给你留下深刻印象？”

"Because I let him think I was." His expression said ‘ duh’ so that his mouth didn't have to but Hermione was still visibly puzzled. "He was interested in Quidditch and showed an aptitude for flying," Lucius elaborated as though he was the most patient person in the world speaking to the most dense.
“因为我让他认为我是。”他的表情说“呃”，这样他的嘴就不必了，但赫敏仍然明显感到困惑。“他对魁地奇很感兴趣，并表现出了飞行的天赋，”卢修斯解释道，仿佛他是世界上最有耐心的人，与最密集的人交谈。

"So you just...pretended?"
“所以你只是......假装的？

"Why would I want to discourage my son from pursuing something that he’s good at?"
“我为什么要劝阻我的儿子不要追求他擅长的事情？”

Realising her mouth had dropped open, Hermione closed it with a click of her teeth and swallowed her urge to say 'because you’re Lucius Malfoy'. He raised his eyebrows at her silence, giving her the distinct impression that he was waiting for her to say just that. Still grappling with the revelation that Lucius Malfoy possessed anything close to unselfish fatherly tendencies, Hermione decided to shift the subject to safer ground.  
赫敏意识到自己的嘴巴张开了，咔嚓一声咬紧了嘴，忍住了想说“因为你是卢修斯·马尔福”的冲动。他对她的沉默扬起眉毛，给她一种明显的印象，他在等她说这句话。赫敏仍然在努力应对卢修斯·马尔福拥有任何接近无私的父亲倾向的启示，她决定将话题转移到更安全的领域。

"You seem content with what you got out of school. Did you like Hogwarts?"
“你似乎对你从学校学到的东西感到满意。你喜欢霍格沃茨吗？

"I had a perfectly acceptable experience." That doesn't sound like much fun , Hermione thought. 
“我有一次完全可以接受的经历。” 这听起来没什么好玩的，赫敏想。

“You liked your teachers?”
“你喜欢你的老师吗？”

“Well enough."
“很好。”

“Even Dumbledore?”
“甚至邓布利多？”

He stalled in lifting his cup to his mouth, his eyes flicking up to hers. “I had my reservations there.”
他停滞不前，把杯子举到嘴边，眼睛眨了眨。“我在那里有所保留。”

"Is there any particular reason for that?"
“这有什么特别的原因吗？”

“Several,” he said carefully, setting the cup back down with a faint clink . 
“好几个，”他小心翼翼地说，轻轻地叮当一声把杯子放回去。

“I’d appreciate it if you could give me at least one,” Hermione said, musing that her parents probably had an easier time drawing teeth from recalcitrant children than she had drawing detail from the man in front of her.
“如果你能给我至少一个，我会很感激的，”赫敏说，她沉思着，她的父母可能比她从面前的男人身上画细节更容易。

Lucius tutted, leaning back and twisting his signet ring around his finger. “He could be a very closed-minded man."
卢修斯啧了一声，向后靠着，把他的图章戒指扭在手指上。“他可能是一个非常思想封闭的人。”

If Hermione had been drinking her tea at that moment, she was sure she would have choked on it. Lucius Malfoy calling anyone closed-minded was richer than he was. 
如果赫敏在那一刻正在喝她的茶，她肯定自己会被茶呛到。卢修斯·马尔福称呼任何思想封闭的人比他更富有。

"Any particular examples of that closed-mindedness you can give me?"
“你能给我举个具体的例子来说明这种封闭的思想吗？”

Lucius appeared to ponder her question, his eyes losing focus as he continued to rotate his ring on his finger with an absent air. Finally, his eyes sharpening again, he said, "Once he took the post, the Restricted Section of the library doubled overnight.” 
卢修斯似乎在思考她的问题，他的眼睛失去了焦点，继续用心不在焉的语气转动着手指上的戒指。最后，他的眼睛又变得锐利起来，他说道：“他一上任，图书馆的禁区就在一夜之间翻了一番。

Interesting . “Who told you that?”
有趣。“谁告诉你的？”

“Several older students in Slytherin house as well as my father and his associates.” 
“斯莱特林学院的几个年纪较大的学生，还有我爸爸和他的同事。”

Hermione quietly pondered Malfoy’s criteria for determining a trustworthy source. He struck her as a man who was not lacking intelligence, yet throughout his life he had proven he was not averse to simply believing things he’d been told by his elders with little to no critical engagement. 
赫敏静静地思考着马尔福确定可靠来源的标准。他给她的印象是一个不缺乏智慧的人，但在他的一生中，他已经证明他并不反对简单地相信长辈告诉他的事情，几乎没有批评性的参与。

Was it possible he only used that sharp mind when it suited him? That seemed likely to Hermione. After all, Purebloods like him didn’t tend to ask questions when it was more convenient to believe what they were being told. They didn't need to. To examine anything beyond the surface was to risk finding out they weren’t nearly as special as they thought. 
有没有可能，他只在适合他的时候才使用那敏锐的头脑？在赫敏看来，这似乎是可能的。毕竟，像他这样的纯血统者在更方便相信他们被告知的内容时不会提出问题。他们不需要这样做。检查表面之外的任何东西都是冒着发现它们并不像他们想象的那么特别的风险。

How much of what Lucius Malfoy had believed and done, she wondered, had been borne out of outright wickedness and how much had just been spineless apathy? 
她想知道，卢修斯·马尔福所相信和所做的，有多少是出于彻头彻尾的邪恶，又有多少是毫无骨气的冷漠？

“And that bothered you?” Hermione asked. “That he increased the size of the Restricted Section?”
“这让你很困扰？”赫敏问道。“他增加了限制区的规模？”

“Of course it did,” Lucius said, frowning in a way that suggested he was offended by the implication that it wouldn’t. “Knowledge should not be restricted.” 
“当然是这样，”卢修斯说，皱着眉头，似乎他被这种不会的暗示冒犯了。“知识不应该受到限制。”

Hermione raised her eyebrows. Obviously he only meant with regards to Pure-bloods.
赫敏扬起眉毛。显然，他指的是纯血统。

“Albus Dumbledore warded off entire areas of study to students, attached shame and secrecy to those areas of study, just because he had been unable to control himself where they were concerned,” Lucius continued. “Typical Gryffindor—brave in the face of everything except a mirror.”
“阿不思·邓布利多把整个研究领域都排除在学生之外，给那些研究领域带来羞耻和秘密，只是因为他在他们关心的地方无法控制自己，”卢修斯继续说道。“典型的格兰芬多——勇敢地面对除了镜子之外的一切。”

Gliding over his jibe at Gryffindor with an ease of which she was actually rather proud, Hermione said, “I never had any issue with getting books from the Restricted Section when I was at Hogwarts, Mr Malfoy.” Even if she had been forced to trick Professor Lockhart that time.
赫敏轻松地滑过他对格兰芬多的嘲讽，她实际上相当自豪，她说，“当我在霍格沃茨的时候，我从来没有遇到过从禁区买书的问题，马尔福先生。即使那次她被迫欺骗了洛哈特教授。

“You were not a Slytherin, Miss Granger. When we showed an interest in the books within that section we were watched more carefully than students from other houses.” Hermione searched his face. He looked like he truly believed what he said. Was that true ? “I imagine it was always assumed that your intent was noble . I never appreciated anyone else setting my limits.”
“你不是斯莱特林，格兰杰小姐。当我们对那个部分的书籍表现出兴趣时，我们比其他学院的学生受到更仔细的观察。赫敏搜索了他的脸。他看起来真的相信自己所说的话。这是真的吗？“我想人们总是认为你的意图是高尚的。我从来不欣赏别人为我设定极限。

Yet you would happily set limits for other people , Hermione thought bitterly. He would set limits for people like her, for creatures like Dobby but Merlin forbid that anyone set any for him . Typical bloody Malfoy.
然而，你会很乐意为其他人设定限制，赫敏苦涩地想。他会为像她这样的人，为像多比这样的生物设定限制，但梅林禁止任何人为他设定任何限制。典型的血腥马尔福。

“I’m sure Dumbledore had a good reason for expanding the Restricted Section.” If he even did .
“我敢肯定邓布利多有充分的理由扩大禁区。” 如果他真的这样做了。

“Only if you consider hypocrisy a good reason,” Malfoy said archly. “Restricting access to texts has certainly never stopped those interested in the Dark Arts from learning about them. All it’s ever done is create a false, reductive binary. ‘Restricted’ and ‘permitted’. ‘Dark’ and ‘light’. ‘Good’ and ‘evil’. They are books and the Dark Arts were never going to stop existing merely because one man would rather they didn’t.”
“除非你把虚伪当成一个好的理由，”马尔福拱手说。“限制对文本的访问肯定从未阻止那些对黑魔法感兴趣的人了解它们。它所做的只是创造了一个虚假的、简化的二元论。“受限”和“允许”。“黑暗”和“浅”。“善”和“恶”。它们是书，黑魔法永远不会仅仅因为一个人宁愿他们不这样做就停止存在。

Hermione blinked at Malfoy. More than once, she had grumbled resentfully about the oppressive rules of the Restricted Section. The permission slips; the ban on taking books out lest she share the restricted knowledge; Madam Pince breathing down her neck and checking her notes. It had always felt so ridiculous. Not only that, it hadn’t stopped her from brewing Polyjuice Potion anyway.
赫敏对马尔福眨了眨眼。她不止一次地不满地抱怨禁区的压迫性规则。许可单;禁止带书外出，以免她分享受限知识;平斯夫人顺着她的脖子呼吸，检查她的笔记。这总是让人觉得很荒谬。不仅如此，这并没有阻止她酿造复方汤剂。

When she, Harry and Ron had been looking for information on Horcruxes to destroy them, the books had been nowhere in sight. The knowledge they’d needed had been removed even further than the Restricted Section, taken from those who needed it to do good as much as those who wanted to do evil. Yet a simple Accio had gotten it to her because she’d been determined. Someone looking to make Horcruxes could have been just as determined to try the same thing. Relief and anger had coursed through her in equal measure when the books had come flying through her window that day.
当她、哈利和罗恩一直在寻找魂器的信息以摧毁它们时，那些书已经不见踪影了。他们需要的知识已经被比禁区更进一步地被剥夺了，从那些需要它来行善的人和那些想作恶的人那里被夺走了。然而，一个简单的 Accio 就得到了它，因为她已经下定决心。想要制作魂器的人可能也同样决心尝试同样的事情。那天，当书从她的窗户飞来时，她心中既如释重负，又生气。

“Did you not find it unsatisfying, Miss Granger,” Malfoy continued, blissfully unaware of her resentful musings, “that you were not taught the Dark Arts, yet you spent hours of every week learning to defend against them?”
“难道你不觉得不满意吗，格兰杰小姐，”马尔福继续说道，幸福地没有意识到她那不满的沉思，“你没有学过黑魔法，却每周花几个小时来学习防御它们吗？

“We did learn about the Dark Arts in defence classes, that's hardly acc—”
“我们确实在防御术课上学过黑魔法，这可不是什么——”

“You learned the bare minimum,” he said admonishingly. “And that is not nearly enough. Those classes leave enough mystery around the Dark Arts to ensure that your fear of them grows disproportionately to your understanding of them. You cannot truly defend yourself against the Dark Arts until you understand them. It's arrogant to believe otherwise. And willfully ignorant to frame all other counter-jinxes and defensive spells as ‘good’ or ‘right’ when they can be used to inflict harm as easily as any so-called Dark spell. Malicious intent may power the Unforgivable Curses but it is not as reliant upon them as they are upon it.”
“你学到了最低限度的东西，”他告诫地说。“这还远远不够。这些职业在黑魔法周围留下了足够的神秘感，以确保你对它们的恐惧与你对它们的理解不成比例地增长。除非你理解了黑魔法，否则你无法真正保护自己免受黑魔法的攻击。不这么认为是傲慢的。并且故意无知地将所有其他反恶灵和防御法术框定为“好”或“正确”，因为它们可以像任何所谓的黑暗咒语一样容易地用来造成伤害。恶意可能会为不可饶恕的诅咒提供动力，但它并不像他们那样依赖它们。

Unbidden, a memory of lighting professor Snape’s cloak on fire with the Incendio charm passed through Hermione’s mind; of confunding McClaggen when he was 50 feet in the air on a broomstick; of stunning Death Eaters in mid-air while she clung desperately to Kingsley’s cloak and hoped she wouldn't fall to her death like them. None of those spells were Dark and she hadn't actually wanted to harm anyone but that didn't mean those spells had not been without the potential to cause harm. Somehow that risk hadn’t mattered to her at the time.
不请自来，赫敏的脑海中闪过了用燃烧咒点燃斯内普教授的斗篷的记忆;当 McClaggen 骑着扫帚在 50 英尺高的空中时，他被收养;半空中的食死徒们被击晕，而她拼命地紧紧抓住金斯莱的斗篷，希望她不会像他们一样摔死。那些咒语都不是黑暗的，她实际上也不想伤害任何人，但这并不意味着那些咒语并非没有造成伤害的潜力。不知何故，当时这种风险对她来说并不重要。

“But those spells are legal,” Hermione pointed out. 
“但那些咒语是合法的，”赫敏指出。

“And your personal moral code is entirely bound up in the law, is it?”
“而且你的个人道德准则完全受法律的约束，是吗？”

“Well, yours certainly isn’t,” Hermione said with a frown. He had some cheek to talk to her about moral codes . As if he had one.
“嗯，你的肯定不是，”赫敏皱着眉头说。他有些厚颜无耻地和她谈论道德准则。就好像他有一样。

A hint of a smile passed over his face at that. “You can judge me for my views on magic all you want, Miss Granger. I feel no shame in them. Suffice it to say that, from my perspective, magic is magic. The only limit should be how far you’re willing to go with it. While I could never claim to be a master of the Dark Arts, I certainly understand them enough to know evil intent is not the sole motivation of those who develop an interest in them.”
“说到这里，他的脸上闪过一丝微笑。“你可以随心所欲地评判我对魔法的看法，格兰杰小姐。我对他们并不感到羞耻。可以说，在我看来，魔法就是魔法。唯一的限制应该是你愿意走多远。虽然我永远无法声称自己是黑魔法大师，但我确实足够了解它们，知道邪恶的意图并不是那些对它们产生兴趣的人的唯一动机。

“Just as pure intent isn’t always the sole motivation of people who don’t,” Hermione finished quietly. She’d encountered enough witches and wizards like Gilderoy Lockhart and Rita Skeeter to know that an interest in Dark Magic wasn’t a prerequisite for selfish maleficence. 
“就像纯粹的意图并不总是不这样做的人的唯一动力一样，”赫敏平静地结束了。她见过足够多的女巫和巫师，比如吉德罗·洛哈特和丽塔·斯基特，知道对黑魔法的兴趣并不是自私恶意的先决条件。

“Precisely,” Lucius said and Hermione could hardly believe she heard something that came close to approval in his tone. Even less believable was the fleeting ripple of pleasure that instinctively passed through her – apparently her love of being told she’d successfully grasped an idea hadn’t abandoned her entirely since leaving Hogwarts. 
“正是，”卢修斯说，赫敏几乎不敢相信她从他的语气中听到了近乎赞同的东西。更令人难以置信的是，她本能地闪过一阵快乐的涟漪——显然，自从离开霍格沃茨后，她对被告知她已经成功掌握了一个想法的热爱并没有完全抛弃她。

Stopping to take a sip of tea, Hermione considered the man across from her. It stood to reason that he would have such an ambiguous outlook; it probably made it easier for him to rationalise everything he did. She couldn’t say she entirely disagreed with him but Hermione knew that though her intent while using her magic had not always been pure—far from it—she had never actually wanted to outright kill another person. It seemed unlikely that he would be able to say the same. Undoubtedly he would just tell her that harm borne of her own short-sightedness was still harm. The hot tea burned on its way down.
赫敏停下来喝了一口茶，打量着她对面的男人。按理说，他会有这样一个模棱两可的观点;这可能使他更容易合理化他所做的一切。她不能说她完全不同意他的观点，但赫敏知道，虽然她在使用魔法时的意图并不总是纯粹的——远非如此——但她从来没有真正想过直接杀死另一个人。他似乎不太可能说同样的话。毫无疑问，他只会告诉她，她自己的短视所造成的伤害仍然是伤害。热茶在下山的路上燃烧着。

“But surely you can’t believe the split is even, Mr Malfoy.” He raised his eyebrows, inviting her to go on, and Hermione felt another strange flutter of gratification. “I just mean…well, while I don’t think you’re wrong exactly, surely it’s more likely that the intentions of someone who actively pursues the Dark Arts aren’t going to be particularly noble.”
“但你肯定不敢相信平分秋色，马尔福先生。”他扬起眉毛，邀请她继续说下去，赫敏又感到一阵奇怪的满足感。“我只是说......好吧，虽然我不认为你完全错了，但肯定更有可能的是，积极追求黑魔法的人的意图不会特别高尚。

He nodded slowly, his head leaning to the side as he acknowledged her point. “Certainly it’s more likely but it’s not guaranteed. The exceptions undermine the rule and so absolutism in this area is pointless.”
他缓缓地点了点头，他的头歪向一边，承认了她的意思。“当然，可能性更大，但不能保证。例外情况破坏了规则，因此这一领域的绝对主义毫无意义。

Says the absolutist in so many other areas , Hermione thought grimly.
“那么多其他领域的绝对主义者说，赫敏冷酷地想着。

“Is all this why you wanted to send your son to Durmstrang?”
“这就是你想把你的儿子送到德姆斯特朗的原因吗？”

He cocked his head, giving her an appraising look. “How did you know that?”
他歪着头，给了她一个赞赏的眼神。“你是怎么知道的？”

“It came up,” Hermione said with a shrug, neglecting to specify when. ‘I overheard him bragging about it on the Hogwarts Express’ didn’t exactly sound authoritative.
“它出现了，”赫敏耸耸肩说，忘记了具体是什么时候。“我在霍格沃茨特快列车上无意中听到他吹嘘这件事”听起来并不完全权威。

Malfoy shot her a curious frown and then, perhaps deciding her vagueness wasn’t worth querying, nodded. 
马尔福好奇地皱了皱眉头，然后，也许觉得她的含糊不清不值得质疑，点了点头。

“It is. I felt that Dumbledore would rather his students suffocate their ambition than harness it. He would rather make them fear the Dark Arts than trust them to find their own limits. The man coddled weakness of mind and feared strength. It’s why he filled the halls with Mudbloods and half-breeds. He and Hogwarts were part of the problem that the Dark Lord wished to solve.”
“是的。我觉得邓布利多宁愿他的学生扼杀他们的雄心壮志，也不愿驾驭它。他宁愿让他们害怕黑魔法，也不愿相信他们能找到自己的极限。这个男人溺爱心智的软弱，害怕力量。这就是为什么他把泥巴种和混血儿塞满了大厅。他和霍格沃茨是黑魔王想要解决的问题的一部分。

It was remarkable to Hermione that Lucius Malfoy could preach the virtues of nuance in one breath and then spout such narrow-minded nonsense in another. Did he even hear himself? It was possible she had overestimated her ability to sit in a room with him and listen to him. Pressing her toes down hard into the bottom of her shoes, Hermione asked, “And that was?”
对赫敏来说，卢修斯·马尔福能一口气宣扬细微差别的美德，然后又一口气说出如此狭隘的胡说八道，这真是太了不起了。他甚至听到了自己的声音吗？她可能高估了自己和他坐在一个房间里听他说话的能力。赫敏用力地将脚趾压进鞋底，问道，“那是？

“That Pure-bloods were not getting the respect they were due,” he said simply. “We were being undermined and sidelined in the Ministry for larger but lesser portions of the population.”
“纯血统没有得到应有的尊重，”他简单地说。“我们在事工中被削弱和边缘化，因为人口的比例更大但更少。”

“What gave you the impression you were being sidelined?” Hermione asked with forced politeness that was edged with a sharp sarcasm. “Was it your immense wealth or your immense privilege?”
“是什么让你觉得自己被边缘化了？”赫敏勉强礼貌地问道，但又夹杂着尖锐的讽刺。“是你的巨额财富还是你的巨大特权？”

His eyes narrowed. “It was common knowledge.”
他眯起了眼睛。“这是常识。”

“Given it's hard to imagine you spent much time around the Ministry while at Hogwarts, I'm going to assume that means your father told you and you just believed him without question.”
“鉴于很难想象你在霍格沃茨的时候花了很多时间在魔法部周围，我假设这意味着你爸爸告诉你了，而你只是毫无疑问地相信了他。”

He didn’t say a thing and Hermione smiled, though it was closer to a sneer, and leaned towards the Wheezebox. “For the record, Mr Malfoy looks like he's swallowed a cockroach cluster.”
他什么也没说，赫敏笑了笑，虽然更接近于冷笑，然后靠向了喘息盒。“郑重声明，马尔福先生看起来就像吞下了一簇蟑螂。”

“I do not .”
“我没有。”

Without missing a beat, Hermione pushed forward in her questioning with the mindset of one who might dive into ice cold water rather than suffer a slow descent. “Did your father have you engage in the attacks that Voldemort was launching against Muggles while you were at Hogwarts?”
赫敏没有错过任何一个节拍，以一种宁愿跳入冰冷的水中也不愿缓慢下降的心态向前提问。“你爸爸有没有让你参与伏地魔在霍格沃茨的时候对麻瓜发动的攻击？”

“Certainly not. I was underage, for one thing. From his perspective—and the Dark Lord’s also, I believe—I was more useful within the walls of Hogwarts.”
“当然不是。一方面，我还未成年。从他的角度来看——我相信也是黑魔王——我在霍格沃茨的围墙内更有用。

“In what way?”
“以什么方式？”

“I could identify and recruit future Death Eaters.” 
“我可以识别并招募未来的食死徒。”

“Like Professor Snape? You were at school together, weren’t you?” 
“像斯内普教授一样？你们是一起上学的，不是吗？

Inclining his head, Malfoy took another sip of tea.
马尔福歪着头，又喝了一口茶。

“How did you pick them?”
“你是怎么挑选他们的？”

Lucius looked up and to the left as he set his cup back down, as though searching back through his memories. 
卢修斯抬头看向左看，把杯子放回去，仿佛在回溯他的记忆。

“I preferred to keep things within my own house,” he finally said, with a nod that was more to himself than to her. “Slytherins are more adept at discretion and I understood their motivations better. Snape was a lonely, disaffected young man who felt intensely insecure and inferior. I offered him somewhere he could feel he belonged. A cause that empowered him and gave him a sense of superiority to which he could cling when faced with those who would make him feel less than.” He frowned, adding, “There were quite a few people who enjoyed doing that.”
“我宁愿把东西都放在我自己的房子里，”他终于说，点头更像是对他自己而不是对她。“斯莱特林更善于判断，我更了解他们的动机。斯内普是一个孤独、心怀不满的年轻人，他感到极度不安全感和自卑。我给他提供了一个他能感觉到自己有归属感的地方。这项事业赋予了他力量，给了他一种优越感，当面对那些让他感到不如的人时，他可以依附于这种优越感。他皱起眉头，补充道，“有不少人喜欢这样做。

There was a tightness forming in Hermione’s throat and no amount of swallowing seemed to get rid of it. “You probably ruined his life.”
赫敏的喉咙里一阵紧绷，似乎再多的吞咽都无法摆脱它。“你可能毁了他的一生。”

“I hardly think offering him genuine friendship should be viewed so harshly,” Lucius said, his face tight. “Severus’ problem was always his preference for placing others on pedestals before stepping onto one himself. He ruined his own life, Miss Granger. I didn’t make his decisions for him.”
“我几乎不认为应该如此严厉地看待向他提供真正的友谊，”卢修斯说，脸色紧绷。“西弗勒斯的问题一直是他喜欢先把别人放在基座上，然后再自己踏上一个。他毁了自己的生活，格兰杰小姐。我没有为他做决定。

“Do you have no sense of personal responsibility?” Hermione asked, made slightly breathless by his callousness.
“你没有个人责任感吗？”赫敏问道，他的冷酷无情让她略微喘不过气来。

“If I take all of the responsibility then what’s left for him?”
“如果我承担了所有的责任，那他还剩下什么呢？”

The blitheness of his tone made Hermione grit her teeth and she felt an irrepressible urge to pursue a more reckless course. It rose up her throat like bile, ringing in her ears. 
他轻快的语气让赫敏咬牙切齿，她感到一种无法抑制的冲动，想要走一条更鲁莽的道路。它像胆汁一样上升到她的喉咙里，在她的耳边回响。

“So why didn't you send your son to Durmstrang, then? If Hogwarts was so detestable to you?” She knew the answer to that, of course. The important thing was that Lucius Malfoy didn’t know she knew. 
“那么，你为什么不把你的儿子送到德姆斯特朗去呢？如果霍格沃茨对你来说如此可憎？她当然知道答案。重要的是卢修斯·马尔福不知道她知道。

Just as she expected after Astoria’s warning, this time he really did look as though he had swallowed a cockroach cluster. “His mother.”
正如她在阿斯托利亚警告后所预料的那样，这一次他看起来确实像是吞下了一簇蟑螂。“他的妈妈。”

“She wanted him to stay close to home?”
“她想让他待在离家近的地方吗？”

“Yes.” 
“是的。”

“And you relented?” Hermione asked, somewhat surprised to hear the hint of an unkind taunt in her own voice. 
“你心软了？”赫敏问道，听到她自己的声音里带着一丝不友善的嘲讽，她有些惊讶。

Lucius Malfoy fixed her with a cold look. “I did not agree with her.” He brushed some invisible crumbs from his desk, dropping his gaze. “But I realised very early on, Miss Granger, that I am not the kind of man who finds it gratifying to make it hard for my wife to be a loving mother just so that I can look like a strong husband.” 
卢修斯·马尔福冷冷地看着她。“我不同意她的观点。”他从桌子上拂去一些看不见的碎屑，垂下了目光。“可是我很早就意识到，格兰杰小姐，我不是那种觉得让我的妻子很难成为一个慈爱的母亲，只是为了让我看起来像个强壮的丈夫而感到满足的男人。”

A soft gust of breath escaped between Hermione’s parted lips and she also looked down, his unexpectedly unguarded revelation leaving her feeling discomfited and even a little dirty for having taunted him. 
一阵轻柔的呼吸从赫敏张开的嘴唇之间逸出，她也低下头，他出乎意料的毫无防备的揭露让她感到不安，甚至因为嘲笑他而有点肮脏。

“Please excuse me for a moment,” he said, rising from his seat and striding past her. She heard a gentle clink and realised he was pouring a drink.
“请原谅我一会儿，”他说，从座位上站起来，大步从她身边走过。她听到一阵轻柔的叮当声，意识到他在倒一杯饮料。

Though there was an odd queasiness working its way up her abdomen, Hermione leaned forward to take another sandwich, more for something to do than because she particularly wanted it. Just as her fingers brushed the crust of the bread, she glanced up beyond the tray and noticed that the parchment Malfoy had placed over what he had been reading when she’d entered had shifted in Letty’s accidental rearrangement of the table. It looked like a stack of contracts.
虽然一阵奇怪的恶心感沿着她的腹部蔓延，赫敏还是向前倾身，想再拿一个三明治，更多的是为了做点什么，而不是因为她特别想吃。就在她的手指拂过面包皮的时候，她抬头瞥了一眼托盘外，注意到马尔福在她进来时放在他正在阅读的东西上的羊皮纸在莱蒂不小心重新布置桌子时已经移动了。它看起来像一堆合同。

Stiffening, her hand hovering over the sandwich tray, Hermione lifted her chin slightly to get a glimpse of what the contracts were for. The word ‘divorce’ jumped out at her multiple times in solid black ink. Eyes wide, Hermione snatched her hand back just as Lucius Malfoy began making his way back around the desk.
赫敏僵硬了一下，手悬停在三明治托盘上，微微抬起下巴，想瞥一眼合同的用途。“离婚”这个词用纯黑色墨水多次出现在她面前。赫敏睁大了眼睛，在卢修斯·马尔福开始绕着桌子走回去的时候，她把她的手抢了回来。

As he moved past the side of the desk, his steps faltered and then stalled. Hermione stared resolutely ahead as he slowly set his filled glass down. Risking a glance at him, she saw he was looking down at the uncovered contract, a frown knitting his brows together. He met her eye, realisation setting in, and Hermione, breath held, chewed the inside of her cheek so hard she was worried her teeth would go through the skin.
当他走过桌子的一侧时，他的脚步踉踉跄跄，然后停滞不前。赫敏坚定地盯着前方，慢慢地放下了装满酒的杯子。她冒险地瞥了他一眼，发现他正低头看着那份揭开的合同，皱着眉头。他对上了她的眼睛，恍然大悟，赫敏屏住呼吸，用力地咀嚼着她的脸颊内侧，她担心自己的牙齿会穿过皮肤。

Holding her gaze, he approached her seat, the tip of his finger tapping the desk as he did so. The faint tap tap tap just about matched the beat of Hermione's heart and she wondered if that was just coincidence or if it was because he could hear it smacking against her ribs.
他凝视着她的座位，走近她的座位，同时用指尖敲打着桌子。微弱的咔嚓咔嚓声几乎与赫敏的心跳相匹配，她想知道这只是巧合，还是因为他能听到它敲打她的肋骨。

Stopping beside her chair, Lucius looked down but Hermione broke eye contact to stare determinedly at the window straight ahead of her, as though she could instigate some kind of spontaneous apparation. Then, her eyes darted to the handle of her wand which was sticking out of her open bag by her feet.
卢修斯停在椅子旁，低头看去，但赫敏打破了眼神交流，坚定地盯着她正前方的窗户，仿佛她可以煽动某种自发的幻影。然后，她的眼睛盯着从她脚边敞开的袋子里伸出来的魔杖手柄。

“ Don’t even think about it,” he said, his voice low and dangerous. “Look at me, Miss Granger.”
“别想了，”他说，他的声音低沉而危险。“看着我，格兰杰小姐。”

A horrid twisting in her stomach, Hermione turned her face up to his and saw nothing but cold fury. It was almost funny to her that she’d thought she’d seen Lucius Malfoy at his angriest when he’d caught her rummaging around his kitchen. Almost.
赫敏的胃里一阵可怕的扭曲，她把脸转向他，只看到冰冷的怒火。对她来说，这几乎是个好笑的事情，她以为她看到了卢修斯·马尔福在他厨房里翻找时最生气的样子。几乎。

“Are you absolutely incapable of minding your own business?” he asked. “Do you suffer from some kind of deficiency ?”
“你绝对没有能力管好你自己的事吗？”“你有某种缺陷吗？”

“I didn’t see anything.”
“我什么也没看到。”

“Don't lie to me,” he hissed. “You moved that parchment.”
“别骗我，”他嘶嘶地说道。“你把那张羊皮纸搬走了。”

“I didn't touch it!” Her voice had more force when she was telling the truth, she noticed. “It must have just moved with the tray.”
“我没碰它！”她注意到，当她说出真相时，她的声音更有力。“它一定是刚刚随着托盘移动的。”

“Who are you working for?” he demanded, leaning down to grip the arm of her chair with one hand while the other leaned on the edge of his desk, caging her in from one side. His face was close enough that she could smell the firewhiskey from him. It mixed with the bergamot of his cologne, making her feel slightly light-headed. “The Prophet? Witch Weekly?” Beyond words, Hermione shook her head repeatedly and he paled. “The Quibbler ?” 
“你在为谁工作？”他问道，俯下身子，一只手抓住她的椅子扶手，另一只手靠在桌子的边缘，从一侧把她关进去。他的脸离得足够近，她能闻到他身上的火威士忌味。它与他的古龙水的佛手柑混合在一起，让她感觉有点头晕目眩。“先知？女巫周刊？赫敏一再摇头，脸色苍白。“狡辩者？”

“I'm not working for anyone,” Hermione finally bit out, leaning back from him, desperate to create some distance. “I'm here on my own!” 
“我不是为任何人工作，”赫敏终于咬了一口，向后靠了靠，不顾一切地想要拉开一些距离。“我一个人在这里！”

Seeming not to hear her, he glanced down at her lap where her hands were clenched into fists and Hermione saw his eyes land on the faint scar on her inner forearm. The scar she’d gotten when she’d first visited Malfoy Manor. 
他似乎没有听到她的话，低头瞥了一眼她的腿，她的双手紧握成拳头，赫敏看到他的目光落在她前臂内侧的淡淡疤痕上。她第一次造访马尔福庄园时留下的伤疤。

“So it's revenge then, is it?” he asked softly, meeting her eyes.
“所以这就是报复，是吗？” 他轻声问道，与她的眼睛相遇。

“ What ?”
“什么？”

“My sister-in-law: dead. My wife :” he spat the word, “gone. So you want to get revenge on me. Revenge for what happened to you, is that it? I've not been brought low enough, you want to reveal this to the world and bring me lower.”
“我的嫂子：死了。我妻子：“他吐出一个字，”走了。所以你想报复我。为发生在你身上的事情报仇，就这样吗？我还没有被降低到足够低的位置，你想向世界揭示这一点，让我更低。

The ringing in Hermione’s ears was starting to make her head hurt. For what happened to her. As though her torture in his home had just been a happening . As though he hadn’t been directly involved. Incensed, Hermione pushed the arms of the chair and propelled herself to her feet, forcing him to straighten up and away from her. She backed around the chair so that it stood between them, a pathetic barricade. 
赫敏耳鸣的声音开始让她的头疼。为了发生在她身上的事情。就好像她在他家里的折磨才刚刚发生一样。就好像他没有直接参与一样。赫敏被激怒了，推着椅子的扶手，把自己撑起来，迫使他直起身来，远离她。她绕着椅子往后退，让它站在他们之间，就像一个可悲的路障。

“I don't need to do anything to make you the lowest kind of person there is,” she spat, relieved that her voice only shook once. “I don't want revenge, Mr Malfoy. And if I did, I wouldn't need your divorce to get it.” She pointed down at the wand poking from her bag, her eyes still fixed on his. “I've got a wand and you don't. Remember?”
“我不需要做任何事情来让你成为最卑微的人，”她啐了一口，因为她的声音只颤抖了一次而松了一口气。“我不想报复，马尔福先生。如果我这样做了，我就不需要你离婚了。她低头指着从包里探出的魔杖，眼睛仍然盯着他。“我有一根魔杖，而你没有。记得吗？

His eyes widened fractionally before narrowing, a sneer curling his lips. “Are you threatening me in my own home?”
他的眼睛微微睁大，然后眯起，嘴唇弯起一丝冷笑。“你在我自己家里威胁我吗？”

"Certainly not,” Hermione said in a mocking imitation of him. “It’s simply a friendly warning.”
“当然不是，”赫敏嘲讽地模仿他说。“这只是一个友好的警告。”

He started forward so suddenly that Hermione gasped and stumbled back, her heart in her throat. Just as suddenly, he stopped, his hand gripping the back of her chair in a way that made her suspect he’d been about to push out of the way to get to her. Visibly unsettled, his chest rising and falling rapidly, Malfoy looked around himself, anywhere but at her, and flexed his hand as he relinquished the chair.
他突然向前走，以至于赫敏喘息着，踉跄着向后退去，她的心都提到了嗓子眼。同样突然，他停了下来，他的手紧紧抓住她的椅背，让她怀疑他正要推开她。马尔福显然很不安，他的胸膛迅速起伏，他环顾四周，除了她之外，任何地方都看了看，并在让出椅子时弯曲了一下手。

“I want you out,” he muttered, turning away from her and sweeping his arm to the door. “Get out.” 
“我要你出去，”他咕哝着，转过身去，用手臂扫向门口。“滚出去。”

Without another word, Hermione scrambled to throw her things in her bag, unable to look at him. As he moved around his desk towards his window, she slammed the door to his study shut behind her and sprinted down the corridor, her bag cradled in her arms.
赫敏一言不发，手忙脚乱地把东西扔进包里，看不见他。当他绕过书桌走向窗户时，她砰的一声关上了书房的门，然后抱着包冲下走廊。

Chapter 12
第十二章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione has a pep talk with Ginny and an unexpected encounter with Lucius Malfoy.
赫敏与金妮进行了一次鼓舞人心的谈话，并与卢修斯·马尔福意外相遇。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

In a total fluster at the nice comments I've been left for this story. Thank you <3
我对这个故事留下的好评论感到非常慌乱。谢谢 <3

The weight and warmth of James Potter was utterly comforting to Hermione. Though he wriggled and fidgeted, he gurgled happily in her lap and allowed her to cuddle him, her arms wrapped around his middle. It was actually the first time he'd seemed even slightly comfortable in her arms—usually he stretched away from her, consumed with shyness and a desire to explore—and Hermione wondered if that was because he could sense that she needed comfort. 
詹姆·波特的沉重和温暖让赫敏感到非常安慰。虽然他扭动着坐立不安，但他在她的腿上快乐地咯咯笑着，让她拥抱他，她的手臂搂着他的中间。这实际上是他第一次在她的怀里显得哪怕是一点点舒服——通常他会从她身边伸开，被害羞和探索的欲望所吞噬——赫敏想知道那是不是因为他能感觉到她需要安慰。

"Are you going to tell me what happened?" Ginny asked from the other side of the sofa, wearing her most motherly expression. 
“你要告诉我发生了什么事吗？”金妮从沙发的另一边问道，露出她最慈母的表情。

"Nothing," Hermione murmured, pressing a gentle kiss into James’ soft hair. He kicked his legs and grabbed his feet, his little brow furrowed in concentration.
“没什么，”赫敏喃喃自语，在詹姆斯柔软的头发上轻轻地吻了一下。他踢着自己的腿，抓住自己的脚，小眉头全神贯注地皱起。

"’Nothing’ doesn’t usually leave you looking like you’ve walked through a ghost."
“'什么都没有'通常不会让你看起来像是走过了鬼魂。”

Hermione had come straight to the Potters from Malfoy Manor. It probably hadn't been the best idea—she'd arrived in a fit of a pique, rather alarming Ginny—but the thought of going home to sit on her own had been even less appealing. Ginny had talked her down, first by pushing a cup of tea into her hands and then, when that was finished, by pushing a happy baby into her arms. It had, Hermione conceded, been an effective approach. She felt better.
赫敏是从马尔福庄园直接来到波特家的。这可能不是个好主意——她来的时候是一怒之下，让金妮感到相当惊慌——但回家独自坐着的想法就更不那么吸引人了。金妮劝说她，先是把一杯茶塞到她手里，然后，当茶喝完后，把一个快乐的婴儿推到她的怀里。赫敏承认，这是一个有效的方法。她感觉好多了。

"Mr Malfoy and I had a...disagreement."
“马尔福先生和我有过一次......分歧。

"Did he do something to you?" Ginny asked sharply, leaning forward, her eyes scanning Hermione for signs of harm. 
“他对你做了什么吗？”金妮尖锐地问道，身体前倾，眼睛扫视着赫敏是否有受伤的迹象。

"No." Even if I’m fairly sure he wanted to , Hermione thought, recalling his face so close to hers and so angry. Even if it was only in her head, she could still smell the firewhiskey. “We just argued.”
“不。” 即使我相当确定他想，赫敏想着，回想起他的脸是那么靠近她，那么生气。即使只是在她的脑海中，她仍然能闻到火威士忌的味道。“我们只是争论了。”

“About?”
“大约？”

Hermione shot Ginny a sidelong look and raised an eyebrow. “What do you think? Anything and everything.”
赫敏侧头看了金妮一眼，扬起了眉毛。“你怎么看？任何事情。

Hermione wasn’t entirely sure why she wasn’t immediately telling Ginny about what she’d seen on Malfoy’s desk. No doubt Ginny would be delighted to share in the gossip of a Malfoy divorce. Yet the words wouldn’t come. Perhaps because Malfoy was right: it really wasn’t any of her business. She didn’t think it was anyone else’s either. With a surge of regret, Hermione wished she’d never bothered to read stupid the parchment. Her only comfort was that even if she hadn’t, he likely wouldn’t have believed her anyway. At least this way she knew why he was furious.
赫敏不完全确定她为什么不立即告诉金妮她在马尔福的桌子上看到的东西。毫无疑问，金妮会很高兴分享马尔福离婚的八卦。然而，这些话并没有来。也许是因为马尔福是对的：这真的不关她的事。她也不认为这是别人的。赫敏一阵遗憾，希望她从来没有费心去读那张愚蠢的羊皮纸。她唯一的安慰是，即使她没有，他也可能也不会相信她。至少这样她知道他为什么生气。

“Suffice it to say, I don’t think I’ll be going back to Malfoy Manor to interview him next week.,” Hermione said, raising her wrist so that James could more easily inspect her watch, his fingerprints fogging the face of it. “I’ll have to pick up the things I’ve left in their library but I’m fairly sure it’s done.”
“我只想说，我不认为我下周会回马尔福庄园去采访他，”赫敏说，抬起手腕，让詹姆斯可以更容易地检查她的手表，他的指纹在手表的脸上起雾。“我得把留在他们图书馆里的东西拿起来，但我相当确定它已经完成了。”

Ginny gave a low whistle and collapsed back into the sofa. "That bad? What did you say to him? Did you make him cry? Oh, I wish I could see that."
金妮低沉地吹了一声口哨，瘫倒在沙发上。“那么糟糕？你对他说了什么？你让他哭了吗？哦，我希望我能看到这一点。

Hermione chuckled. “I don’t think Lucius Malfoy cries, Ginny.” Bouncing her legs up and down to make James giggle, she added quietly, “I don’t think he feels guilt, either.”
赫敏咯咯地笑了起来。“我不认为卢修斯·马尔福会哭泣，金妮。”她上下摆动双腿，让James咯咯地笑，然后轻声补充道，“我也不觉得他有内疚感。

A soft sigh prompted Hermione to look up at Ginny who was watching her with an exasperated but loving expression. “You are such a div. Of course he doesn’t. He doesn’t feel anything , I’d wager. If you ask me, this is for the best.”
一声轻柔的叹息促使赫敏抬头看向金妮，金妮正用一种恼怒但充满爱意的表情看着她。“你真是个混蛋。他当然没有。他什么都没感觉，我敢打赌。如果你问我，这是最好的。

Humming noncommittally, Hermione continued to bounce her knees, enjoying the way James’ laughter got louder the longer it went on. God, sometimes she wished she was a baby again.
赫敏漫不经心地哼着歌，继续蹦蹦跳跳地蹦蹦跳跳，享受着詹姆斯的笑声越久越大声。天哪，有时她希望自己又回到了婴儿时代。

Ginny huffed, adjusting herself on the sofa with her hand on her belly. “Don’t you hum at me. I bet he was horrible to you, wasn’t he?”
金妮气喘吁吁，把手放在肚子上，在沙发上调整自己。“你别对我哼哼。我敢打赌他对你来说很可怕，不是吗？

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“Why should you put yourself through that? Who asked you to do that?”
“你为什么要让自己经历这一切呢？谁让你这样做的？

“No one, Ginny. I don’t care that he was horrible; it’s not like I think he’s right even for a second. It was a means to an end.”
“没有人，金妮。我不在乎他很糟糕;我甚至一秒钟都不认为他是对的。这是达到目的的手段。

“You’re one of the most strong-minded people I know but anyone would be affected by constantly hearing the hateful tripe that comes out of his mouth. Particularly if it’s directed at them. I think this is for the best, not because I hate him, but because I love you.”
“你是我认识的最有主见的人之一，但任何人都会因为不断听到他嘴里说出的可恶的牛肚而受到影响。特别是如果它是针对他们的。我认为这是最好的，不是因为我讨厌他，而是因为我爱你。

At that, Hermione cast Ginny a shy smile. “That’s nice of you to say.”
听到这话，赫敏向金妮露出一个害羞的笑容。“你这么说真好。”

“Hm,” Ginny said, flicking her hair over her shoulder, “well, I felt like you might need to hear something nice today.” 
“嗯，”金妮说，把头发甩到肩膀上，“嗯，我觉得你今天可能需要听点好听的话。

They sat quietly for a time, both lavishing attention on James who soaked it up like the adorable sponge he was. To Hermione, wherever the Potters were would always be a place of comfort. When it had become clear to her shortly after the war that she wasn’t going to be able to reverse the memory charm she’d placed on her parents, the realisation that she'd lost them and, with them, a place to call home had utterly destroyed her.
他们静静地坐了一会儿，都把注意力集中在詹姆斯身上，詹姆斯就像一块可爱的海绵一样吸收着它。对赫敏来说，波特一家在哪里永远是一个舒适的地方。当战争结束后不久，她清楚地意识到她无法逆转她对父母施加的记忆魅力时，她意识到自己已经失去了他们，也失去了他们，一个可以称之为家的地方，这彻底摧毁了她。

Harry and Ginny had taken her in and, with Ron, they’d cared for her for weeks. They’d fed her when she refused to feed herself; washed her hair when she wouldn’t do anything that ran the risk of her having to look at herself in a mirror; held her while she’d cried. They’d cared for her and shown her kindness when she hadn’t felt like she deserved anything of the sort. In doing so, they’d given her a new home and place of safety. She’d be eternally grateful to them for it.
哈利和金妮收留了她，和罗恩一起，他们照顾了她几个星期。当她拒绝自己吃饭时，他们就给她喂食;当她不愿意做任何冒着不得不照镜子看自己的事情时，她就洗头;在她哭泣时抱着她。他们关心她，在她觉得自己不值得得到这种东西时向她表达善意。这样一来，他们就给了她一个新的家和安全的地方。她会永远感激他们。

“You know what else I feel like you might need?” Ginny asked, eyes peeking up at Hermione as she leaned down to tickle James’ belly. There was a sly smile on her face that Hermione could read only too well. 
“你知道我觉得你还需要什么吗？”金妮问道，眼睛抬头瞥着赫敏，她俯下身来挠詹姆斯的肚子。她脸上露出狡黠的笑容，赫敏看得再清楚不过了。

“If you’re going to say a date…” Hermione started, trailing off with an irate sigh. 
“如果你要说一个日期......”赫敏开始说话，带着愤怒的叹息离开了。

“You really are very clever, you know,” Ginny said gravely. “How did you know? Legilimency?”
“你真的很聪明，你知道的，”金妮严肃地说。“你怎么知道的？摄魂术？

“Predictability,” Hermione said sternly. “On your part, that is. Not mine.”
“可预测性，”赫敏严肃地说。“对你来说，就是这样。不是我的。

Raising an eyebrow, Ginny combed a stray strand of James’ hair down. It was very much like Harry’s. “I’d say your less than enthusiastic response is pretty predictable, actually.”
金妮扬起眉毛，把詹姆斯的一缕散乱的头发梳了下来。这很像哈利的。“我想说，你不那么热情的反应其实是可以预见的。”

“And what’s that supposed to mean?”
“那应该是什么意思？”

“Hermione,” Ginny said with an incredulous laugh. “You are allergic to dating. It’s been years since you’ve shown the slightest interest in anyone. Now, I get it. I get why Ron might have put you off but you have to put yourself out there. For a good shag, if not for anything else.” 
“赫敏，”金妮难以置信地笑着说。“你对约会过敏。你已经很多年没有对任何人表现出丝毫兴趣了。现在，我明白了。我明白为什么 Ron 可能会让你失望，但你必须把自己放在那里。为了一个好的粗毛，如果不是为了其他任何事情。

Flustered, Hermione tried to bring her hands up to cover James’ ears, earning her a raucous laugh from Ginny who reached out and touched her fingertips to Hermione’s wrist. “Oh, stop it. He doesn’t know.”
慌乱的赫敏试图抬起双手捂住詹姆斯的耳朵，这让金妮大笑起来，金妮伸出指尖碰了碰赫敏的手腕。“哦，住手。他不知道。

“I do not need a good-” Hermione glanced down at the top of James’ head and back up at Ginny, a pinched expression on her face. “S-h-a-g. Thank you very much.”
“我不需要好——”赫敏低头看了一眼詹姆斯的头顶，又抬头看了一眼金妮，脸上露出紧绷的表情。“S-h-a-g.非常感谢。

Ginny reached out and placed a fingertip on Hermione’s shoulder. Pressing down, Ginny managed to lower it several inches, her eyebrows raised pointedly. “Uh huh. Those are meant to be perpetually up around your earlobes are they?”
金妮伸出手，将指尖放在赫敏的肩膀上。金妮往下压，设法把它降低了几英寸，她的眉毛尖尖地扬起。“嗯。那些应该永远挂在你的耳垂上，不是吗？

Her face hot, Hermione straightened her posture and did her best to muster up a forceful glare. “I just don’t have time for anything right now, Ginny.”
赫敏脸色发烫，挺直了姿势，尽力让自己瞪了一眼。“我现在没时间做任何事情，金妮。”

“You don’t have time for yourself?”
“你没有自己的时间吗？”

“That’s not what I said. I don’t have time for a relationship.”
“我不是这么说的。我没有时间谈恋爱。

“You don’t need a relationship to have sex , Hermione,” Ginny said with an exasperated shake of her head. “You just need a willing partner who understands that you’re not looking for anything serious.”
“你不需要一段关系来做爱，赫敏，”金妮恼怒地摇了摇头说。“你只需要一个愿意的伴侣，他明白你不是在寻找任何严肃的事情。”

“Looking for someone like that takes time in and of itself, Ginny. I can’t just conjure a man out of thin air and ask him to have sex with me.”
“寻找这样的人本身就需要时间，金妮。我不能凭空变出一个男人，然后让他和我发生性关系。

“You don’t have to. You have Terry Boot.”
“你不必这样做。你有特里·布特。

Rolling her eyes, Hermione started bouncing James on her knee again. “I, in no way, shape or form, have Terry Boot.”
赫敏翻了个白眼，又开始让詹姆斯在她的膝盖上弹跳。“我，绝不是，无论是形状还是形式，都没有特里·布特。”

“You have a potential date with him if you could just work up the courage to accept it.”
“如果你能鼓起勇气接受它，你就有可能和他约会。”

“It’s not about courage.”
“这与勇气无关。”

“Then what is it?”
“那是什么？”

“I told you: time.” 
“我告诉过你：时间。”

“Well, you’re not going back to Malfoy Manor next week so there’s an hour or so that you didn’t even know you had. Pretend he’s Lucius Malfoy.”
“嗯，你下周不会回马尔福庄园，所以有一个小时左右的时间你甚至都不知道你已经去了。假装他是卢修斯·马尔福。

Hermione goggled at Ginny who grimaced, holding up her left hand apologetically, while placing her right over her mouth. “I’m so sorry, let me rephrase that. Pretend you’ve still got a meeting with Lucius Malfoy and just use that time for a better purpose.”
赫敏瞪着金妮，金妮做了个鬼脸，抱歉地举起左手，同时把右手捂住了嘴。“我很抱歉，让我换个说法。假装你还有和卢修斯·马尔福的会面，然后把这段时间用在更好的目的上。

“Ginny, I’m really not—”
“金妮，我真的不是——”

“Hermione, what’s the worst that could happen?” Before Hermione could answer with a million terrible scenarios—which she was preparing to do—Ginny pressed on. “That you spend an hour or so with a nice, cute man who likes you and might even want to sleep with you? That you let him lavish you with compliments and enjoy some positive attention after weeks of listening to Malfoy’s tripe?”
“赫敏，可能发生的最坏情况是什么？”在赫敏用一百万个可怕的场景来回答之前——她正准备这样做——金妮继续前进。“你和一个喜欢你，甚至可能想和你上床的漂亮可爱的男人在一起一个小时左右？你让他对你大加赞美，并在听了几周马尔福的牛肚之后享受一些积极的关注吗？

Hermione paused, her mouth open. What Ginny was describing didn’t actually sound all that bad. Potentially uncomfortable, certainly, but not bad. “Plus,” Ginny continued as Hermione closed her mouth with a half-convinced expression, “even if you don’t sleep with him, at least you’ll have something new to masturbate to.”
赫敏停顿了一下，张大了嘴巴。金妮所描述的实际上听起来并没有那么糟糕。当然，可能会让人不舒服，但还不错。“另外，”金妮继续说，赫敏闭上了嘴，露出半信半疑的表情，“即使你不和他上床，至少你也会有新的东西可以自慰。

“Ginny!” Hermione said, looking down at the wriggling James in her arms with wide eyes.
“金妮！” 赫敏说，睁大了眼睛低头看着怀里扭动的詹姆斯。

“What ?” Ginny followed Hermione’s gaze and tutted, clicking her fingers. “Oh, shut up , Hermione. It’s true!”  Sensing Hermione’s ongoing discomfort, Ginny eyed her beadily. “You are still masturbating, right?”
“什么？”金妮顺着赫敏的目光啧啧称奇，咔嚓咔嚓地敲打着她的手指。“哦，闭嘴，赫敏。这是真的！ 感觉到赫敏持续的不适，金妮狠狠地盯着她。“你还在自慰，对吧？”

“Sometimes.” Hermione couldn’t quite manage to meet her friend’s eyes. ‘Sometimes’ was technically true. ‘Rarely’ was even more true. It wasn’t that Hermione didn’t like sex or orgasms. In fact, she liked them a lot. It was just that her mind had a tendency to be running over other things that were completely disconnected to what her body was doing, particularly when she was busy or stressed which, in her early days at the Ministry, she often had been. It made it rather hard for her to lose herself. 
“有时候。”赫敏没能完全与她朋友的眼睛对视。“有时”在技术上是正确的。“很少”更是如此。并不是赫敏不喜欢性爱或性高潮。事实上，她非常喜欢他们。只是她的头脑有一种倾向，想着其他与她的身体完全无关的事情，特别是当她忙碌或有压力的时候，在她事工的早期，她经常这样做。这让她很难迷失自我。

A quick rub for some physical stimulation wasn’t always enough for her; sometimes her mind had to be coaxed along for the journey too. The nights when she’d needed that, her ‘curled up hedgehog nights’ as Ron had called them, had been a point of friction in their relationship. He’d never been quite able to absorb her attempts to tell him that his less-than-understanding reactions didn’t help matters one bit.
对她来说，快速摩擦以获得一些身体刺激并不总是足够的;有时她的思想也必须被哄骗才能踏上旅程。她需要那个的夜晚，罗恩所说的“蜷缩的刺猬之夜”，一直是他们关系中的一个摩擦点。他从来都没能完全理解她试图告诉他，他那些不理解的反应一点也没用。

Ginny made a humming noise and she eyed Hermione with suspicion before nodding firmly, clearly opting for acceptance over argument. “Good. It’s healthy, you know. Merlin knows when Harry is away on Auror patrols I’m constantly thinking about—”
金妮哼哼地响起，她用怀疑的眼神看着赫敏，然后坚定地点了点头，显然是选择了接受而不是争论。“很好。你知道的，这很健康。梅林知道哈利什么时候不在傲罗巡逻，我一直在想——”

“Ginny, no.”
“金妮，没有。”

“What? You never let me tell you about my sex life.”
“什么？你从来不让我告诉你我的性生活。

“That’s because you’re having sex with Harry . I don’t want to know anything about what Harry does in bed okay? As far as I’m concerned he is flat down there. A genital-free zone.”
“那是因为你和哈利发生了性关系。我不想知道哈利在床上做什么，好吗？就我而言，他在那里是平淡的。一个无生殖器区。

“Well, you’re missing out on some excellent stories. Because let me tell you, parseltongues—”
“嗯，你错过了一些精彩的故事。因为让我告诉你，蛇佬们——”

“No!”
“不！”

Ginny barked out a delighted laugh which settled into a smug grin. “You know how you can get me to stop, right? Send a letter to Terry Boot and tell him you want to go out next Thursday.”
金妮高兴地笑了起来，然后变成了得意的笑容。“你知道怎么让我停下来，对吧？写一封信给特里·布特，告诉他你下周四想出去。

“Ginny. ”
“金妮。”

“Sometimes I’ll pretend I’m the Hungarian Horntail guarding my eggs and I’ll get him to—”
“有时候我会假装我是匈牙利角尾鹦鹉看守我的蛋，然后我会让他——”

“Get me some parchment, please. Now .”
“请给我拿点羊皮纸来。 现在。

With a pleased squeal, Ginny rose from the sofa as fast as her growing belly would allow and disappeared into the kitchen. Huffing out a sigh, Hermione hugged James slightly closer, praying that his conception was not a result of the role play she’d just had forced into her mind’s eye. 
随着一声高兴的尖叫，金妮以她不断增长的肚子所能允许的速度从沙发上站起来，消失在厨房里。赫敏叹了口气，把詹姆斯抱得更近了些，祈祷他的受孕不是她刚刚强行进入她脑海的角色扮演的结果。

When Ginny returned, she set the parchment and quill down on the coffee table in front of Hermione and lifted James into her own arms, tucking his head into the crook of her neck. Rocking back and forth, she nodded meaningfully down at the parchment. 
当金妮回来时，她把羊皮纸和羽毛笔放在赫敏面前的咖啡桌上，把詹姆斯抱在怀里，把他的头塞进她的脖子弯里。她来回摇晃着，意味深长地朝羊皮纸点了点头。

“Go on, then.”
“那么，继续。”

Sighing, Hermione shuffled to the edge of the sofa and picked up a quill to compose her letter to Terry. Keeping it short and to the point, she told him that she actually had a bit of free time next week and asked him if he’d like to meet. Holding the letter up to Ginny, Hermione waited patiently for a proof read with the full knowledge that she wouldn’t be allowed to send it without one. 
赫敏叹了口气，拖着脚走到沙发边上，拿起一支羽毛笔写给特里的信。她简短而切中要害地告诉他，她下周其实有一点空闲时间，并问他想不想见。赫敏把信递给金妮，耐心地等待校对，她完全知道没有校对她是不允许寄出去的。

“I mean, a bit more enthusiasm wouldn’t have gone amiss but it’ll do,” Ginny said with a nod as Hermione folded the letter and addressed it. Not entirely sure where Terry lived, Hermione decided to address it to the Ministry archive. He’d probably be there right at that moment, anyway.
“我的意思是，多一点热情不会出错，但会的，”金妮点点头说，赫敏把信折叠起来，写了起来。赫敏不完全确定泰瑞住在哪里，决定把它交给魔法部档案馆。无论如何，他可能在那一刻就在那里。

“Wilmot is in the utility room doing that weird thing where he hides in all the freshly washed clothes,” Ginny said. “You’ll probably have to coax him out with an owl treat. I swear to Merlin, the first bird shit I find in there I will pluck him.” Lifting James up to her face, Ginny rubbed her nose against his and made him giggle. “I will pluck him,” she said in a babyish voice. “Yes I will!” 
“威尔莫特在杂物间做那件奇怪的事情，他躲在所有刚洗过的衣服里，”金妮说。“你可能得用猫头鹰零食哄他出来。我向梅林发誓，我在那儿发现的第一只鸟屎我就把他拔掉。金妮把詹姆斯举到她的脸上，用鼻子蹭他的鼻子，让他咯咯地笑。“我会把他拔下来，”她用婴儿般的声音说。“是的，我会的！”

Leaving the sounds of a delighted giggling James behind her, Hermione made her way through the kitchen to the utility room to find Wilmot, the Potter’s small brown post owl. Just as Ginny had said, he was nestled in the clean clothes but he was quick enough to fly up to Hermione when he saw that she had a letter to post. Wilmot hooted excitedly as Hermione gave him the letter, murmuring, “If you want to lose this en route that’s totally fine, Wilmot.”
赫敏把詹姆斯高兴的咯咯笑声抛在脑后，穿过厨房来到杂物间，找到了波特家的棕色小猫头鹰威尔莫特。正如金妮所说，他窝在干净的衣服里，但当他看到赫敏有一封信要寄时，他很快就飞到赫敏身边。当赫敏把信递给他时，威尔莫特兴奋地叫道，“如果你想在路上丢掉这封信，那完全没问题，威尔莫特。

When Hermione returned to the room, she found James directing some of his self-building blocks with authoritative noises while Ginny watched him fondly over the rim of her cup of tea. “Is it done?” she asked, dragging her eyes away.
当赫敏回到房间时，她发现詹姆斯正在用权威的声音指挥他的一些自建积木，而金妮则深情地隔着她的茶杯边缘看着他。“完成了吗？” 她问道，把眼睛移开了。

“Yes,” Hermione said, slinking back to her seat and dropping into it with a dark look. “I hope you’re happy.”
“是的，”赫敏说，悄悄地回到她的座位上，脸色阴沉。“我希望你快乐。”

“Ecstatic,” Ginny said drily, taking a sip of her tea. “I hope he responds quickly, I want to see it.”
“欣喜若狂，”金妮干巴巴地说，喝了一口茶。“我希望他能迅速回应，我想看看。”

As it turned out, Terry did respond quickly — within an hour. This, Ginny commented with an ambivalent mix of approval and disapproval, was very keen. He’d responded on the back of Hermione’s original note in neat, cramped handwriting that actually reminded her of her own.
事实证明，特里确实很快做出了回应——在一个小时内。金妮以赞成和不赞成的矛盾混合评论道，这是非常敏锐的。他在赫敏的原始笔记背面用工整、局促的笔迹回答，这实际上让她想起了她自己的字迹。

Hermione! Great to hear from you. As it happens, I’m on annual leave next week so I can meet you on Thursday. Let’s say 2.30, if that works for you? Maybe we can get some coffee or something? Terry. 
赫敏！很高兴收到您的来信。碰巧的是，我下周要休年假，所以我可以在星期四见你。比如说 2.30，这对你有用吗？也许我们可以喝杯咖啡什么的？泰 瑞。

“Coffee?” Ginny exclaimed from over Hermione’s shoulder. 
“咖啡？”金妮从赫敏的肩膀上喊道。

Smiling to herself, Hermione folded the note and slipped it into her jeans pocket, planning to respond with a yes when Ginny wasn’t there. “That’s good , Ginny. It’s low pressure. As is an afternoon date. We’re only getting to know one another.”
赫敏对自己笑了笑，把纸条折叠起来，塞进牛仔裤的口袋里，打算趁金妮不在的时候回答“是”。“那很好，金妮。这是低压。就像下午的约会一样。我们只是在相互了解。

“Well.” Ginny screwed up her face, clearly trying not to look too disappointed given she’d gotten exactly what she’d wanted. “If you’re happy with it, that's great. I just thought when we left Hogwarts dates would be a bit more, y’know, fancy dinners, candles and promises of romance. You could have coffee with me .”
“嗯。”金妮把脸拧了一砸，显然是为了不让自己显得太失望，因为她已经得到了她想要的。“如果你对它感到满意，那就太好了。我只是想，当我们离开霍格沃茨时，约会会更多一些，你知道的，华丽的晚餐、蜡烛和浪漫的承诺。你可以和我一起喝咖啡。

“Yes, but I’m never going to try to shag you, am I?” Hermione said primly, shaking a finger at Ginny. “It’s not the activity, it’s the person.”
“是的，但我永远不会试图羞辱你，对吧？”赫敏严肃地说，向金妮摇了摇手指。“这不是活动，而是人。”

A lewd grin spread across Ginny’s face and Hermione could hardly help but share it. “Saucy,” Ginny said, swiping at Hermione’s arm. “That’s more like it.”
金妮的脸上露出的笑容，赫敏忍不住分享了它。“俏皮，”金妮说，一边扫了一下赫敏的手臂。“那更像是这样。”

“If this date is terrible, I want you to promise that you’ll get off my back for a while,” Hermione said, approaching James and sinking onto her knees beside him to help him with his blocks. 
“如果这个约会很糟糕，我希望你保证你会暂时离开我，”赫敏说，走近詹姆斯，跪在他身边，帮助他挡住。

“Well,” Ginny muttered, lowering herself back onto the sofa, “if it’s good I want you to promise that you’ll get on it yourself.” 
“嗯，”金妮咕哝着，把自己放回沙发上，“如果好的话，我希望你保证你会自己上去的。

“Ginny!”
“金妮！”

May 30th
5月30日

Hermione was curled up on her sofa, staring into the fireplace and contemplating when she should return to Malfoy Manor to collect her things from the library. At first, she’d told herself she would simply go when the time felt right but, since that was proving to be never , she was coming to the realisation that she’d just have to go when she felt like she could. 
赫敏蜷缩在沙发上，盯着壁炉，思考着什么时候应该回到马尔福庄园去图书馆收拾她的东西。起初，她告诉自己，她会在时机合适的时候去，但因为事实证明这是不可能的，她逐渐意识到，她必须在她觉得可以的时候去。

It was past 8pm but it was still light and pleasantly warm outside. Her cold glass of white wine was sweating, the condensation dribbling over her fingers. Glancing down into it, Hermione raised the glass to her lips and took a long drink. 
虽然已经晚上 8 点多了，但外面仍然很轻松，温暖宜人。她冰凉的白葡萄酒杯出汗了，冷凝水滴落在她的手指上。赫敏低头看了一眼，把杯子举到嘴边，喝了一大口。

It wasn't like she was scared to go back to Malfoy Manor. Not really. Sure, Lucius Malfoy had almost definitely wanted to hurt her but he hadn't and, deep down, she was certain he wouldn't. It was too much of a risk given he was still serving his sentence. She just couldn't be worth it—worth the additional punishment—to him. He thought so little of her, after all. 
她并不是害怕回到马尔福庄园。没有。当然，卢修斯·马尔福几乎肯定想伤害她，但他没有，而且，在内心深处，她确信他不会。考虑到他还在服刑，风险太大了。她就是不值得——值得额外的惩罚——对他来说。毕竟，他对她的看法太少了。

Hermione flushed with embarrassment recalling the way she had flinched back when she'd thought he was going to come at her. He'd been unarmed and instead of diving for her wand she'd panicked . Clearly she was out of practice. Ugh . 
赫敏尴尬得满脸通红，回想起当她以为他会来找她时，她退缩的样子。他手无寸铁，她没有跳下去抢她的魔杖，反而惊慌失措。显然她没有练习。 呸。

Hermione glanced around for the bottle of wine and saw that she'd left it all the way across the room on the windowsill. Not worth it. Raising the glass to her lips again, she drained it, holding the glass up so that the last droplets had time to make their way into her mouth. 
赫敏环顾四周寻找那瓶酒，发现她一直把它放在了房间对面的窗台上。不值得。她再次将杯子举到嘴边，喝干了它，举起杯子，让最后一滴水有时间进入她的嘴里。

Allowing her head to fall back onto the sofa, Hermione sighed. It wasn't so shameful, was it? The war was long over. Surely a benefit of peacetime was forgetting some of the tightly coiled fear that meant one always felt the need to be armed and primed to fight.
赫敏让她的头靠回沙发上，叹了口气。这没那么可耻，不是吗？战争早已结束。当然，和平时期的一个好处是忘记了一些紧紧缠绕的恐惧，这意味着一个人总是觉得需要武装并准备好战斗。

Recalling the cold fury that had been on Malfoy’s face, Hermione tapped her finger against her wine glass and frowned. She wasn’t afraid to go back to Malfoy Manor but in that specific moment, when he'd moved so suddenly, a part of her mind had gone back in time. He had been unarmed but he was still Lucius Malfoy. A man that hated her and would once not have hesitated to kill her. Maybe still wouldn't, if he could guarantee no consequences. 
回想起马尔福脸上冰冷的怒火，赫敏用手指敲了敲她的酒杯，皱起了眉头。她并不害怕回到马尔福庄园，但在那个特定的时刻，当他如此突然地移动时，她的一部分思绪已经回到了过去。他手无寸铁，但他仍然是卢修斯·马尔福。一个恨她，曾经毫不犹豫地杀死她的男人。如果他能保证不承担任何后果，也许现在还是不会。

Hermione contemplatively rolled the stem of the wine glass between her fingers. In some ways, men like Lucius Malfoy managed to scare her just that little bit more than Voldemort because they looked utterly human while still being monsters. 
赫敏沉思着用手指滚动着酒杯的杆。在某些方面，像卢修斯·马尔福这样的男人比伏地魔更能吓到她，因为他们看起来完全是人类，但仍然是怪物。

Voldemort had looked evil to her. Maybe he hadn't always been snakelike but his cruel preoccupations had caught up with him. But Lucius Malfoy...an instinctive, delicate shiver passed through Hermione’s body. He had a polished veneer that was so shiny he'd been able to hide behind it for years. They had known for centuries about werewolves but Lucius Malfoy made her wonder if there were not wolves that became men.
伏地魔在她看来是邪恶的。也许他并不总是像蛇一样，但他残酷的关注已经赶上了他。但是卢修斯·马尔福......一种本能的、微妙的颤抖穿过赫敏的身体。他有一个抛光的单板，非常闪亮，他已经躲在它后面很多年了。几个世纪以来，他们就知道狼人了，但卢修斯·马尔福让她怀疑，难道没有变成人的狼吗。

Yet, still, he interested her. Still she wanted to finish their interviews. Everyone she'd interviewed had been fascinating in their own way, certainly, but her last discussion with him had held her attention in a way that she hadn't anticipated. He struck her as a mess of contradictions and that made the problem solver in her sit up just a little straighter. He was perfect for her project. Maybe that was part of why she hadn't collected her things – if they were still at the manor it meant there was still a chance he'd give in.
然而，他仍然引起了她的兴趣。她还是想完成他们的采访。当然，她采访过的每个人都以自己的方式令人着迷，但她与他的最后一次讨论以一种她没有预料到的方式吸引了她的注意力。他觉得她是一团乱七八糟的矛盾，这让她的问题解决者坐直了一点。他非常适合她的项目。也许这就是她没有收拾东西的部分原因——如果它们还在庄园里，那就意味着他还有可能屈服。

But, she thought with a grim finality, he wasn’t going to. So she'd just have to give up like he wanted. Grunting, Hermione leaned forward and deposited her wine glass on the coffee table before heaving herself to her feet. If there wasn't a good time to go to Malfoy Manor then she'd just have to go now. Use the momentum. And the wine. 
但是，她冷酷地想，他不会这样做的。所以她只能像他想要的那样放弃。赫敏咕哝了一声，身体前倾，把酒杯放在咖啡桌上，然后站了起来。如果不是去马尔福庄园的好时机，那她现在就得走了。利用势头。还有葡萄酒。

When Hermione eventually Floo’d into the Malfoy library, the sun had finally set and she found it in almost-darkness. The only light source was the steadily dimming glow of the low flames in the fireplace. Glancing around, she approached the desk and withdrew her box from beneath it, glad that she’d not bothered to take it home. There was just enough light to see what she was packing up so she didn't bother to light her wand. The bright glow of a Lumos spell only made it more likely that someone would come to investigate the room and she didn't want that. The plan was to get in, get her things, and get out. 
当赫敏最终飞路走进马尔福图书馆时，太阳终于落山了，她发现它几乎是黑暗的。唯一的光源是壁炉里低火逐渐变暗的光芒。她环顾四周，走近桌子，从桌子下面拿出她的盒子，庆幸自己懒得把它带回家。光线刚好够看清她正在收拾的东西，所以她懒得点燃她的魔杖。Lumos 咒语的明亮光芒只会让有人更有可能来调查这个房间，而她不希望这样。计划是进去，拿她的东西，然后出去。

Brushing her hair over her shoulders, Hermione got to work re-organising her sheets of notes into the correct folders, the soft crackles of the fire and flicking sounds of parchment the only sounds. It was almost peaceful and she managed to lose herself in the repetition of it.
赫敏把头发拂过肩膀，开始把她的笔记重新整理到正确的文件夹中，火堆的柔和噼啪声和羊皮纸的轻弹声是唯一的声音。这几乎是平静的，她设法在它的重复中迷失了自己。

“Did you know, Miss Granger.” Hermione’s head shot up at the sound of the drawl from the direction of the door and a folder slipped from her hands to land with a smack on the desk. “That I have spent the last few days waiting for the sordid details of my personal life to appear in one, or several, of our illustrious news outlets. And yet it hasn’t happened. Why?” 
“你知道吗，格兰杰小姐。”赫敏听到门口传来的拉砸声，一个文件夹从她手中滑落，砰的一声落在桌子上。“在过去的几天里，我一直在等待我个人生活中的肮脏细节出现在我们杰出的新闻媒体中。然而，这并没有发生。为什么？

Lucius Malfoy was standing in the entrance to the library, his neat black robes just about blending in with the shadows in the dark corridor behind him. His hands were behind his back, his posture straight, and, unlike the last time Hermione had seen him, his face was a mask of calm rather than cold with rage. 
卢修斯·马尔福站在图书馆的门口，他整洁的黑色长袍几乎与他身后黑暗走廊中的阴影融为一体。他的双手背在背后，姿势笔直，与赫敏上次见到他不同，他的脸上是一副平静的面具，而不是愤怒的冰冷。

Regardless, Hermione reached blindly to her right, refusing to take her eyes from him. Patting her hand along the smooth table, she finally brushed the carved handle of her wand with her fingertips and seized it to point, unwavering, in his direction. To her frustration, he simply smiled and tilted his head to the right. Admittedly, she had no intention of cursing the man in his own home but he had no way of knowing that.
无论如何，赫敏盲目地把手伸向她的右侧，拒绝将目光从他身上移开。她用手在光滑的桌子上轻拍，终于用指尖拂过魔杖的雕花手柄，然后抓住它，坚定不移地指向他的方向。令她沮丧的是，他只是微笑着，把头向右歪了歪。诚然，她无意在自己家里诅咒这个男人，但他无从得知。

“Lower your wand, silly girl,” he said, shaking his head with a condescending smile. “I have no intention of harming you.”
“放下你的魔杖，傻姑娘，”他说，一边摇着头，露出居高临下的笑容。“我无意伤害你。”

As though she didn’t hear him, Hermione kept the wand up and gripped it tighter. He sighed, dropping his hands from behind his back so that they hung by his sides. It was a small source of pride to her that she exhausted him.
就像她没有听到他的声音一样，赫敏一直举起魔杖，握得更紧了。他叹了口气，把手从背后垂下来，挂在他的身体两侧。她让他筋疲力尽，这让她感到骄傲。

“What do you want, Miss Granger?” he asked shortly.
“你想要什么，格兰杰小姐？”

Hermione blinked a couple of times, not sure she’d heard properly. “What do you mean what do I want?” she asked, eyeing him warily. “I’m packing my things up. I want to go. What do you want?”
赫敏眨了眨眼，不确定自己是否听错了。“你什么意思，我想要什么？” 她问道，警惕地盯着他。“我正在收拾我的东西。我想去。你想要什么？

“I mean ,” he said, taking a slow step forward, “why are you sitting on the story of my divorce? What do you want from me? Money?”
“我是说，”他说，慢慢地向前迈了一步，“你为什么坐视我离婚的故事呢？你想从我这里得到什么？钱？

That surprised Hermione so much she dropped her wand arm limply by her side and cocked her head at him. “I don't want your money .”
这让赫敏大吃一惊，她无力地把魔杖的手臂垂在身侧，歪着头看着他。“我不要你的钱。”

With an appraising air, he dropped his gaze, dragging it down the length of her body. With an oddly nervous flutter in her stomach, Hermione allowed him to take in her faded t-shirt, low-rise jeans and her off-white trainers, before his doubtful eyes flicked back up to meet hers. “Are you sure about that?”
带着赞赏的神情，他垂下了目光，顺着她的身体向下拖拽。赫敏的肚子里奇怪地紧张地颤抖着，让他看她褪色的T恤、低腰牛仔裤和她的米白色运动鞋，然后他怀疑的眼睛又抬起头来与她对视。“你确定吗？”

“I have no interest in your bloody divorce, Malfoy,” Hermione snapped, crossing her arms self-consciously over her chest. It bothered her that while his words didn’t affect her, the looks he gave her could. They always had. “I wasn't lying to you. I'm not going to tell anyone. I haven't. I don't care .”
“我对你血腥的离婚没兴趣，马尔福，”赫敏厉声说，不自觉地把双臂交叉在胸前。让她感到困扰的是，虽然他的话没有影响她，但他给她的眼神却能。他们一直都是这样。“我没有骗你。我不会告诉任何人。我没有。我不在乎。

His eyes narrowed with suspicion and Hermione laughed incredulously, sounding slightly mad as it echoed in the large library. “I don't understand why you're finding it so hard to believe.”
他怀疑地眯起了眼睛，赫敏难以置信地笑了起来，听起来有点疯狂，因为它在大图书馆里回荡。“我不明白你为什么觉得这么难以置信。”

“It’s leverage,” he said quietly, “and you are not using it.”
“这是杠杆，”他轻声说，“你没有使用它。

“It's not leverage.” Hermione shook her head, disgusted that he would suggest she might see it that way. “It's your private life. I didn’t come here because I want to spread gossip; I want to write an oral history.”
“这不是杠杆。”赫敏摇摇头，厌恶他会暗示她可能会这样看。“这是你的私生活。我来这里不是因为我想传播八卦;我想写一段口述历史。

“Are you trying to tell me that if we don’t resume our meetings, you will leak it?”
“你是想告诉我，如果我们不恢复会议，你就会泄露它吗？”

“Oh my God, no!” Hermione raised her arms wide in an attempt to throw some of her rapidly rising frustration out of her body. “That is not what I said. Why would I?”
“哦，天哪，不！”赫敏张开双臂，试图将她迅速上升的挫败感从她的身体中释放出来。“我不是这么说的。我为什么呢？

Malfoy placed his hands in the pockets of his robes and took another few steps towards her, shrugging. “Payback.”
马尔福把手长袍的口袋里，耸了耸肩，又向她走了几步。“报复。”

As he walked into the low light cast by the fire, Hermione could see that his face didn’t appear quite as bleary and grey as it had on their last meeting. Clearly, he had pulled himself together somewhat. Maybe just one or two firewhiskeys today.
当他走进火堆投下的昏暗灯光时，赫敏可以看到他的脸不像上次见面时那样朦胧和灰暗。显然，他已经稍微振作起来了。也许今天只有一两杯火威士忌。

“Yeah.” Hermione shook her head. “That's not my style.” 
“是的。”赫敏摇摇头。“那不是我的风格。”

“I would do it.”
“我会这样做的。”

With an impatient tut , Hermione dropped her wand onto the desk with a clatter and put her hands on her hips. “You’ve just given me yet another reason to not want to do it.” 
赫敏不耐烦地啧啧一声，咔嚓一声把魔杖扔在桌子上，双手放在臀部上。“你刚刚给了我另一个不想做这件事的理由。”

He approached the desk, standing at one corner while Hermione stood across from him at the other. He wasn’t quite as tall as Draco, as it turned out, but it was a difference of mere centimetres. She looked up at him closely. “Look, is this some kind of weird reverse psychology Slytherin game? Do you actually want me to sell the story to the Prophet? You seem oddly intent on it.” 
他走近桌子，站在一边的角落里，而赫敏则站在他对面的另一边。事实证明，他没有德拉科那么高，但只相差几厘米。她抬起头仔细地看着他。“你看，这是某种奇怪的逆向心理学斯莱特林游戏吗？你真的想让我把这个故事卖给先知吗？你似乎很奇怪地对它有意。

“No.” He said it so quickly that she believed him. 
“不。”他说得如此之快，以至于她相信了他。

“Then stop harassing me about it,” Hermione said with a roll of her eyes. She picked up the folder she had dropped when he’d come in and placed it carefully into her box, feeling his eyes on her the whole time. “You’re getting exactly what you want, aren’t you?”
“那就别再骚扰我了，”赫敏翻了个白眼说。她捡起他进来时丢下的文件夹，小心翼翼地放进她的盒子里，感觉他的眼睛一直盯着她。“你得到了你想要的，不是吗？”

“I am finding you hard to understand, Miss Granger.” 
“我觉得你很难理解，格兰杰小姐。”

“The feeling’s bloody mutual,” she muttered, depositing another folder into the box. All too aware that he wasn’t leaving, Hermione glanced up at him and saw he was staring at her intently. Her stomach flipped like a half-done pancake and she straightened up. “How did you know I was here?”
“这种感觉是血腥的相互的，”她咕哝着，把另一个文件夹放进盒子里。赫敏太清楚他不会离开了，抬头看了他一眼，发现他正目不转会地盯着她。她的肚子像吃了一半的煎饼一样翻动着，她直起身来。“你怎么知道我在这里？”

“I knew you would need to collect your things so I asked Astoria to inform me when the wards signalled an arrival,” he said, finally dropping his gaze and glancing around the dimly lit room. “It’s somehow very typical of you to interrupt my nightcap.”
“我知道你需要收拾你的东西，所以我让阿斯托利亚在病房发出到来的信号时通知我，”他说，终于垂下了视线，环顾了一下昏暗的房间。“你打断我的睡前酒有点很典型。”

Shuffling awkwardly, Hermione pushed down her instinct to apologise. She hadn’t asked him to leave his stupid study for Merlin’s sake, what was wrong with her? Perhaps sensing her discomfort, he returned his attention to her. “You may continue to use the library. You have exhibited…discretion. Something I would not have imagined you capable of.” 
赫敏尴尬地拖着脚，压抑住了道歉的本能。她没有让他为了梅林而离开他那愚蠢的书房，她怎么了？也许是感觉到她的不安，他又把注意力转向了她。“你可以继续使用这个库。您展出了...自由裁量权。我从来没有想过你能做到。

Offering him a sarcastic smile, Hermione returned to packing up her things. “Don't really want to use the library of a man who does nothing but insult me, thanks.” 
赫敏向他露出一个讽刺的笑容，然后继续收拾她的东西。“我真的不想使用一个除了侮辱我什么都不做的人的图书馆，谢谢。”

“Don’t be petulant,” he said with a sigh, raising a hand to rub at his temple. “I am apologising.”
“别撒脾气，”他叹了口气说，抬起一只手揉了揉自己的太阳穴。“我很抱歉。”

“Apologies usually have the word sorry in them.” Hermione punctuated the word ‘sorry’ by dropping a particularly heavy folder in the box.
“道歉通常带有对不起这个词。”赫敏把一个特别重的文件夹扔进盒子里，打断了“对不起”这个词。

“I would like to point out that you still took it upon yourself to read something that was none of your business.” 
“我想指出，你仍然主动阅读了一些与你无关的东西。”

Hermione’s shoulders dropped and she raised her head to look at him. He was still standing by the desk, one fingertip now leaning on it, watching her carefully. 
赫敏的肩膀垂下来，她抬起头看着他。他仍然站在桌子旁，一根指尖现在靠在上面，仔细地看着她。

“You want to keep doing the interviews?” she asked, her brow furrowed with doubt.
“你想继续做采访吗？” 她问道，疑惑地皱起了眉头。

“You may return at the usual time next week.”
“你下周可以照常的时间回来。”

Drawing her bottom lip between her teeth, Hermione considered him as she gnawed at it. His face was utterly unreadable but he did not blink, holding her gaze steadily. A part of her thought Ginny was right—ending the interviews probably was for the best. But there was still that other part of her that was desperately keen to finish what she’d started. Hermione Granger always saw things through to the bitter end.
赫敏用牙齿咬住下唇，一边啃着一边看着他。他的脸完全看不清，但他没有眨眼，稳稳地凝视着她。她有一部分认为金妮是对的——结束采访可能是最好的。但她还有另一部分拼命渴望完成她开始的事情。赫敏·格兰杰总是把事情看到底。

“Alright,” she said quietly. He nodded, turning away, and with a sharp exhale Hermione began taking things out of the box again to return them to the desk. 
“好吧，”她轻声说。他点点头，转过身去，赫敏猛地呼出一口气，又开始从盒子里拿出东西，把它们放回桌子上。

“I'm sorry, by the way, Mr Malfoy,” she said to his retreating back. Halting, he turned on his heel to give her a curious look. “About your marriage,” she explained.
“对不起，顺便说一句，马尔福先生，”她对他后退的背影说。停下脚步，他转过身来，好奇地看了她一眼。“关于你的婚姻，”她解释说。

He tilted his head, his eyes cold. “Do not pity me, Miss Granger. I neither want it nor need it.” 
他歪着头，眼神冰冷。“别可怜我，格兰杰小姐。我既不想要也不需要。

“Oh, I really don't.” Hermione gave a small laugh which made him frown. “ At all . But that doesn't mean I can't offer my condolences.”
“哦，我真的不知道。”赫敏轻轻地笑了起来，这让他皱起了眉头。“一点也不。”但这并不意味着我不能表示哀悼。

Rather than continue his exit, he took another few steps towards her again. “She left for France almost five years ago,” he said. “At this point the papers are nothing more than a formality that will complete her transition into a new life. My concern largely revolves around the fact that divorces are not the kind of thing that happens in the Pure-blood world. Of course, I doubt that's something you —”
他没有继续离开，而是再次向她走了几步。“她差不多五年前去了法国，”他说。“在这一点上，这些文件只不过是一种形式，将完成她向新生活的过渡。我的担忧主要围绕着这样一个事实，即离婚不是纯血统世界中发生的那种事情。当然，我怀疑你是不是——”

He broke off as Hermione held up a dusty guide to Pure-blood customs. "I know,” she said. “I took your recommendation for additional reading. Despite the rude manner in which it was given.”
当赫敏举起一本尘封的纯血统习俗指南时，他打断了他。“我知道，”她说。“我接受了你的建议，以便进一步阅读。尽管它被以粗鲁的方式给出。

Hermione wasn’t sure if it was a shadow cast from the flickering flames in the fireplace but she could have sworn his lips quirked at the corners ever so slightly. It disappeared as quickly as it came. 
赫敏不确定那是不是壁炉里摇曳的火焰投下的影子，但她可以发誓他的嘴唇微地抽搐了一下。它消失得和来得一样快。

“So you understand why I would prefer that the matter remains private.” 
“所以你明白为什么我宁愿这件事保密。”

“I suppose I do.” She lowered the book and shrugged. “Your pride.”
“我想我记得。”她放下书，耸了耸肩。“你的骄傲。”

“The Malfoy name has suffered quite enough,” he said tersely. “Do not talk about pride as though it is a trivial trifle. It's one of the few things I have left.”
“马尔福这个名字已经受够了，”他简洁地说。“不要把骄傲当作一件小事来谈论。这是我剩下的为数不多的东西之一。

“I don't think pride is trivial. We all have it on some level and I actually think it has its virtues on occasion.” He raised his chin, glaring down his nose at her. Looking away towards the fire, Hermione thoughtfully added, “Though I also think it can stand in the way of a reconciliation."
“我不认为骄傲是微不足道的。我们都在某种程度上拥有它，我实际上认为它有时也有它的优点。他抬起下巴，顺着鼻子瞪着她。赫敏望向火堆，若有所思地补充道，“虽然我也认为它会阻碍和解。

“Your liking for Sabine makes more sense every day,” he said drily.
“你对萨宾娜的喜欢一天比一天更有意义，”他冷淡地说。

Hermione’s eyes snapped back to his face and she shook her head hurriedly. That had definitely slipped out on the current of wine coursing through her system. “I'm sorry, I shouldn't have—”
赫敏的眼睛猛地回到他的脸上，她急忙摇了摇头。这肯定是在她体内流淌的酒流中溜走的。“对不起，我不该——”

“I don’t want a reconciliation, Miss Granger.”
“我不想和解，格兰杰小姐。”

Swallowing her trepidation, Hermione dropped her gaze and ran a finger along the edge of the desk. “Are you angry at her for leaving?”
赫敏吞下了她的恐惧，垂下了目光，用一根手指在桌子的边缘滑了一下。“你对她的离开生气吗？”

Risking a glance up, Hermione found he was scanning the table warily. “I’m not recording,” she said, feeling that she was reading him correctly for once. 
赫敏冒险抬头看了一眼，发现他正在小心翼翼地扫视着桌子。“我没有录音，”她说，感觉自己有一次读对了他。

His eyes snapped to hers. “Then why are you asking?”
他的眼睛猛地盯着她。“那你为什么要问？”

Hermione shrugged. “I’m interested.”
赫敏耸耸肩。“我很感兴趣。”

Had he ever talked to anyone about the disintegration of his marriage? There was something about his raised shoulders and clenching and unclenching fists that told Hermione no. But she had proven herself to be a relatively trustworthy third party—discreet, as he said—so it was perhaps with that in mind that he didn’t immediately shout her down.
他有没有和任何人谈过他婚姻的破裂？他抬起的肩膀和紧握和松开的拳头在告诉赫敏不。但她已经证明自己是一个相对值得信赖的第三方——正如他所说，很谨慎——所以也许是考虑到这一点，他没有立即把她喊下来。

"Interested,” he repeated with a frown. “Miss Granger, you really do seem to have an irrepressible fascination with things that are none of your concern.”
“感兴趣，”他皱着眉头重复道。“格兰杰小姐，你似乎真的对那些不关心的事情有一种无法抑制的迷恋。”

“You don’t have to tell me but I won’t tell anyone else if you do.”
“你不必告诉我，但如果你告诉我，我不会告诉其他人。”

Managing to keep her face entirely blank, Hermione withstood the scrutiny of his gaze. For one wild moment, she read Malfoy’s silence as him actually considering telling her something. Then he turned on his heel and said over his shoulder, “I will see you on Thursday at 2, Miss Granger. Don’t be late.”
赫敏设法让她的脸完全空白，经受住了他的目光审视。有那么一刻，她读到马尔福的沉默，因为他真的在考虑告诉她什么。然后他转过身来，转过头来说：“我星期四两点见，格兰杰小姐。不要迟到。

Watching Malfoy go with a sinking feeling, Hermione remembered her date with Terry Boot. She’d just have to make it work.
看着马尔福带着一种沉重的感觉离去，赫敏想起了她和特里·布特的约会。她只需要让它发挥作用。

Chapter 13
第十三章Chapter Summary
本章小结

In this meeting, Malfoy pushes Hermione's rant button and has to deal with the consequences.
在这次会议中，马尔福按下了赫敏的咆哮按钮，不得不处理后果。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾June 1st
6 月 1 日

On the morning of her date with Terry, Hermione stood in front of her wardrobe tapping her foot as she assessed its contents. Generally, she didn’t think all that hard about what she was going to wear but Ginny had made the mistake of asking her what she was planning to wear and it had set off a spiral of overthinking. Glancing over her shoulder out of the window, Hermione could see that it was another warm, sunny day. 
在她和特里约会的那天早上，赫敏站在她的衣柜前敲打着她的脚，一边打量着里面的东西。一般来说，她不会那么认真地考虑她要穿什么，但金妮犯了一个错误，问她打算穿什么，这引发了一场过度思考的漩涡。赫敏回头瞥了一眼窗外，发现这又是一个温暖、阳光明媚的日子。

Rifling through her clothes, Hermione dismissed items one by one. Jeans might end up being too warm; shorts felt too casual; that skirt didn’t feel casual enough ; she suddenly hated every single other skirt she had. Finally, Hermione landed on a pale blue cotton summer dress with a broderie anglaise pattern. Pulling it out, she held it up to herself. Short without being too short, very thin straps but it wouldn’t cling to her body too much. Perfect. Throwing it on the bed, she pulled a pair of sandals from the floor of her wardrobe and set about getting ready for the day. 
赫敏翻阅着她的衣服，一个一个地扔掉了这些东西。牛仔裤最终可能会太暖和;短裤感觉太随意了;那条裙子感觉不够随意;她突然讨厌她拥有的每一条裙子。最后，赫敏找到了一件带有马德拉刺绣图案的淡蓝色棉质夏装连衣裙。她把它，举到自己面前。短而不短，非常细的带子，但不会太紧地贴在她的身上。完善。她把它扔在床上，从衣柜的地板上拿出一双凉鞋，开始为这一天做准备。

Just as Hermione was settling down at her kitchen table to have some toast and coffee, an owl arrived at the window. Rising to let it in, Hermione took the letter from its leg and immediately recognised Terry’s writing. Rolling her eyes, Hermione ripped it open, fully expecting it to be a cancellation.
正当赫敏在厨房的桌子旁坐下来吃吐司和咖啡时，一只猫头鹰来到了窗前。赫敏起身让它进来，从它的腿上拿走了信，立刻认出了特里的字。赫敏翻了个白眼，把它扯开了，完全以为它会被取消。

"It’s a beautiful day so let’s meet at the new ice cream shop on Diagon Alley. I’ve heard they’ve got a new butterbeer flavour with chunks of butterscotch in and I’m desperate to try it . Terry ."
“今天天气晴朗，让我们在对角巷的新冰淇淋店见面吧。我听说他们有一种新的黄油啤酒口味，里面有大块的奶油糖果，我迫切地想尝试一下。 特里。

Smiling, Hermione reached over to her plate for some toast and took a hearty bite. She would never admit it to Ginny but she was a little bit excited. Going for ice cream was a nice date. It would be nice . Nice things were nice. If she just kept telling herself that over and over then maybe she’d believe it. 
赫敏微笑着伸手到她的盘子里吃了点吐司，然后丰盛地咬了一口。她永远不会向金妮承认，但她有点兴奋。去吃冰淇淋是个不错的约会。那就太好了。美好的事物就是美好的。如果她只是一遍又一遍地告诉自己，也许她会相信。

It was true that she hadn’t dated after Ron but it wasn’t that Ron had put her off, exactly. It was just that she’d thought a relationship was something she didn’t really need. She didn’t need to be worrying about another person or about fitting them into her life. So far, though, Terry hadn’t been doing too badly. He was keen to meet her but he hadn’t been constantly trying to get in contact with her in the interim. That was a good start. Maybe, even if she didn’t need him, she might end up wanting him. Unthinkable, really. 
的确，她没有在罗恩之后约会过，但并不是罗恩完全推迟了她。只是她认为一段关系并不是她真正需要的东西。她不需要担心另一个人或让他们融入她的生活。不过，到目前为止，特里的情况还不错。他很想见她，但在此期间他并没有一直试图与她取得联系。这是一个好的开始。也许，即使她不需要他，她最终也可能想要他。真的，不可思议。

After depositing her plate and cup in the sink, Hermione pulled her satchel onto a chair and made sure everything she needed for the day was there. She’d decided that she would turn up to Malfoy Manor slightly earlier than usual so that she could leave early for her date. Mr Malfoy had only said “don’t be late”, after all. He’d said nothing about being just over half an hour early. Counting the times on her fingers, she figured that if she arrived at Malfoy Manor just before 1.30 rather than at 2, she’d be able to get to apparate to meet Terry just after 2.30 as promised.
把盘子和杯子放进水槽后，赫敏把她的书包拉到椅子上，确保她今天需要的所有东西都在那里。她决定比平时早一点来到马尔福庄园，这样她就可以早点出发去约会了。毕竟，马尔福先生只说了一句“别迟到”。他什么也没说要提前半个多小时。她用手指数着时间，心想如果她在1点30分之前到达马尔福庄园，而不是在2点钟，她就能像承诺的那样在2点30分之后幻影去见特里。

When Hermione knocked on the door of Lucius Malfoy’s study at 1.25, she received no reply. Counting to twenty, nodding her head in a metronomic beat to ensure accuracy, she knocked again. Nothing. Sighing, Hermione tapped her foot and glanced down at her watch. With Malfoy, it was hard to tell whether he was genuinely not there to answer her or whether he was remaining silent to torment her. The only way to find out was to open the door for herself.
当赫敏在 1.25 敲响卢修斯·马尔福书房的门时，她没有收到任何回复。数到二十，她以节拍器点头以确保准确性，然后她再次敲门。无。赫敏叹了口气，敲了敲她的脚，低头看了一眼她的手表。对马尔福来说，很难说他是真的不是来回答她，还是他保持沉默来折磨她。找出答案的唯一方法就是为自己打开门。

Steeling herself to be snapped at for entering without explicit permission, Hermione turned the handle to his study and pushed her way into the room. 
赫敏强忍着自己没有得到明确允许就进去而被打伛，她转动了书房的把手，推门走进了房间。

Opening her eyes, which had closed in a dread-induced cringe as she crossed the threshold, Hermione glanced around the room, her shoulders dropping as she took it all in. It was empty. Feeling somewhat stumped, Hermione drew her lower lip between her teeth thoughtfully. 
赫敏睁开眼睛，在她跨过门槛时，眼睛因恐惧而畏缩着，她环顾了一下房间，她的肩膀垂了下来，把这一切都看进去了。里面空无一人。赫敏感到有些难住，若有所思地把下唇夹在牙缝里。

Where was he likely to be except in his study? More importantly, how could she find out quickly? There was really only one way in a house so large and unfamiliar.
除了他的书房，他可能在哪儿呢？更重要的是，她怎么能快就发现呢？在如此大和陌生的房子里，真的只有一条路。

“Letty?” Hermione asked, her voice hesitant as she spoke to the empty room. 
“莱蒂？”赫敏问道，她的声音在对着空荡荡的房间说话时犹豫不决。

A crack rent the air, signalling Letty’s arrival and Hermione found herself faced with a beaming elf who, on seeing who had called her, immediately dipped a reverential curtsey that made Hermione want to squirm.
空气中响起了裂缝，标志着莱蒂的到来，赫敏发现自己面对的是一个喜气洋洋的精灵，她一看到是谁叫她，立即行了一个虔诚的屈膝礼，这让赫敏想扭动一下。

“Miss Hermione Granger!” Letty cried, her voice high, delighted and directed at the floor of Malfoy’s study. When Letty rose from her curtsey, however, she looked troubled, her tennis ball-sized eyes becoming more akin to dinner plates as they took in the surroundings. “Miss is in the master’s study,” Letty said slowly. “Miss is alone.” The elf began to fret, twisting her wrinkled hands together. “Miss shouldn’t be – not good for, miss. The master will not be pleased. Master doesn't like snooping. Miss should go. Go, go, go.”
“赫敏·格兰杰小姐！”莱蒂喊道，她的声音高亢而高兴，指向马尔福书房的地板。然而，当莱蒂从屈膝礼中站起来时，她看起来有些不安，她网球大小的眼睛在观察周围的环境时变得更像餐盘。“小姐在主人的书房里，”莱蒂缓缓地说。“小姐一个人。”妖精开始烦恼，把她布满皱纹的双手扭在一起。“小姐不应该——不好，小姐。主人不会高兴的。师父不喜欢窥探。小姐该走了。走，走，走。

Letty hurried towards Hermione, ducking around her legs to plant her bony hands on Hermione’s backside and push her towards the door, murmuring 'go' over and over again. Hermione yelped as her entire body juddered forward, the elf’s strength taking her by surprise. Not sure what else to do, Hermione jumped to the side in order to remove Letty’s hands from her person.
莱蒂急忙向赫敏走去，弯下身子，把瘦骨嶙峋的手放在赫敏的后背上，把她推向门口，一遍又一遍地喃喃自语着“走”。赫敏大喊着，她的整个身体向前颤抖着，这个精灵的力量让她大吃一惊。不知道还能做什么，赫敏跳到一边，以便将莱蒂的手从她身上移开。

“Letty!” Hermione cried, fixing her dress in a fluster as she turned to face the anxious elf. “I’m looking for your master. We have our meeting today.”
“莱蒂！”赫敏喊道，慌乱地整理了一下她的裙子，转身面对着焦急的精灵。“我在找你的主人。我们今天开会。

“But miss is early,” said Letty, her voice low with concern and her eyes wide, as though imploring Hermione to see her error.
“可是小姐还早，”莱蒂说，她的声音低沉而担忧，睁大了眼睛，仿佛在恳求赫敏看到她的错误。

“Yes, I hope that’s okay,” Hermione said, for the first time genuinely worried that it might be a serious problem. “I thought I might meet with Mr Malfoy at a slightly different time today.”
“是的，我希望没事，”赫敏说，第一次真正地担心这可能是个严重的问题。“我想我今天可能会在一个稍微不同的时间见到马尔福先生。”

“Master isn’t in his study, miss,” Letty said with a shake of her head. “Never at this time on a Thursday.”
“老师不在他的书房里，小姐，”莱蒂摇着头说。“星期四的这个时候绝对不能。”

“Yes, well, I know that now .” Hermione paused, somewhat stumped as Letty offered no further elaboration. “...where is he?”
“是的，嗯，我现在知道了。”赫敏停顿了一下，因为莱蒂没有进一步解释，她有点难住了。“...他在哪儿？

“In the grounds, Miss.”
“在院子里，小姐。”

“I see.” Hermione could feel sweat gathering at the nape of her neck and used her hand to fan herself. Between the heat of the sun outside and the fire roaring inside, the room was remarkably stuffy. Interviewing Malfoy in such conditions was a less-than-pleasant prospect. Being outside might not be so bad. “Well, perhaps you can take me to him?”
“我明白了。”赫敏能感觉到汗水在她的后颈上聚集，用手给自己扇风。在外面的炎热阳光和里面咆哮的火焰之间，房间里非常闷热。在这种条件下采访马尔福是一个不太愉快的前景。在外面可能还不错。“嗯，也许你能带我去见他？”

“Master likes to be alone in the grounds, miss,” Letty said, tugging nervously at her toga. Seeing Hermione’s increasingly troubled expression, the elf fretted further, obviously horrified by the idea that she might be disappointing Hermione. “But I will take Hermione Granger to him now. Master is to be returning to the house soon.”
“小姐，师父喜欢一个人呆在院子里，”莱蒂说，紧张地拉扯着她的长袍。看到赫敏越来越不安的表情，精灵更加烦恼了，显然她可能会让赫敏失望。“但我现在就带赫敏·格兰杰去见他。师父很快就要回家了。

Feeling relieved but intensely guilty that she was putting Letty in an awkward position, Hermione followed her out of Malfoy’s office and down to the ground floor of the Manor before passing through the corridor to the kitchen. They crossed the kitchen and passed through another small vestibule to the back of the house. Hermione assumed it was a servants’ entrance to the grounds as it didn’t lead directly onto the grand terrace that she’d looked out on from the large hallway window at the back of the manor. Instead, they walked around the raised terrace, the shadow it cast creating a lovely cool spot in which Hermione wouldn't have been averse to lingering.
赫敏松了一口气，但又因为她把莱蒂置于一个尴尬的境地而感到极度内疚，她跟着她走出了马尔福的办公室，一直到庄园的一楼，然后穿过走廊来到厨房。他们穿过厨房，穿过另一个小门厅来到房子的后面。赫敏以为这是仆人进院的入口，因为它并没有直接通向她从庄园后面的大走廊窗户望出去的大露台。相反，他们绕着凸起的露台走来走去，它投下的阴影创造了一个可爱的凉爽的地方，赫敏不会排斥在里面逗留。

When they rounded the corner in front of the terrace, Hermione squinted against the renewed glare of the sun to see Lucius Malfoy strolling past the gurgling fountain with his back to them, his dog gambolling at his side. As before when she’d spotted him in the garden, he was dressed in his shirtsleeves and smart trousers. Unlike Hermione, he didn’t appear to be particularly bothered by the heat. Cold-blooded , she thought, her lips set in a grim line. 
当他们绕过露台前的拐角时，赫敏眯着眼睛顶着新的阳光，看到卢修斯·马尔福背对着他们，从潺潺流淌的喷泉旁走过，他的狗在他身边赌博。就像以前她在花园里看到他时一样，他穿着衬衫袖子和时髦的裤子。和赫敏不同，他似乎并没有特别被高温所困扰。 冷血，她想着，她的嘴唇勾勒出一条严峻的线条。

“Thank you, Letty,” she said with a smile down at the elf. “I can take it from here.”
“谢谢你，莱蒂，”她低头对精灵微笑着说。“我可以从这里拿走它。”

With another low curtsey, Letty backed into the house, clearly glad not to be asked to go any further. Taking a fortifying breath, Hermione began to wander over the grass towards Malfoy who, facing away from her, was blissfully unaware that his early afternoon was about to be interrupted. 
莱蒂又低低地行了个屈膝礼，回到屋子里，显然很高兴没有被要求再往前走。赫敏深吸一口气，开始在草地上向马尔福走去，马尔福背对着她，幸福地没有意识到他的午后即将被打断。

Just as she was approaching him, he drew back his arm and threw what looked like a miniature Quaffle far down the garden. The dog scrambled around his feet before shooting off after it and Lucius rolled his shoulders as his arm fell back down by his side. Hermione’s gait stuttered at the sight. It was odd to see Lucius Malfoy do anything remotely physical; he and energetic movement did not go together in her mind. 
就在她靠近他的时候，他抽回了手臂，把一个看起来像微型的夸夫饼的东西扔到了花园的远处。那条狗在他的脚上爬来爬去，然后追了上去，卢修斯扭了摇肩膀，手臂又落在了身边。赫敏的步态在看到这一幕时结结巴巴。看到卢修斯·马尔福做任何与身体无关的事情都很奇怪;他和充满活力的运动在她的脑海中并不相伴。

“Mr Malfoy,” Hermione called, picking up her pace to a slight jog as she crossed the grass towards him. 
“马尔福先生，”赫敏喊道，加快了脚步，轻轻地向他走来。

He turned on the spot, his eyebrows shooting up at the sight of Hermione trotting across his grounds towards him, holding her bag steady with one hand so that it didn’t bash against her side. When she finally reached him, she planted her hands on her hips, her cheeks flushed and a smile on her face as she caught her breath. 
他当场转过身来，看到赫敏小跑穿过他的地面向他走来，他的眉毛竖了起来，一只手稳住她的包，以免它撞到她的侧面。当她终于找到他时，她把手放在臀部上，脸颊通红，屏住呼吸，脸上露出笑容。

“What are you doing here?” he asked, his eyes darting around the garden as though trying to find who he had to hex for leading her to him. Well, she wasn’t going to allow Letty to get the blame. 
“你在这里做什么？”他问道，他的眼睛在花园里扫视，仿佛在寻找他必须要咒语的人，因为他把她带到了他身边。好吧，她不会让莱蒂受到责备。

“I’m here to interview you,” Hermione said brightly, as though she was playing along with some kind of deliberate silliness. “You know that.”
“我是来采访你的，”赫敏爽朗地说，仿佛她在玩弄某种故意的愚蠢。“你知道的。”

“No,” he said, his eyes briefly flickering closed. “I mean what are you doing here now ?” He reached down to the pocket of his trousers and withdrew an old-fashioned watch which he read from under a deep frown. “You’re half an hour early.”
“不，”他说，眼睛短暂地闭上了。“我是说，你现在在这里做什么？”他把手伸到裤子的口袋里，掏出一块老式的手表，深深地皱着眉头看了看。“你早到了半小时。”

“You only said don’t be late.”
“你刚才说过别迟到。”

Lucius tutted, dropping the watch back into his pocket. “That’s not explicit permission to show up whenever you like before that.”  
卢修斯啧了一声，把手表放回了口袋里。“在那之前，你可以随时出现。”

“Sorry, I just—”
“对不起，我只是——”

“Assumed I’d have nothing to do and would therefore be eagerly awaiting your arrival?” His voice was light but laced with a dangerous amount of sarcasm. 
“假设我无事可做，因此会热切地等待你的到来？”他的声音很轻，但夹杂着危险的讽刺。

“No,” Hermione said, a heat that had nothing to do with the sun rising in her cheeks. She wouldn’t have phrased it quite like that, anyway. True, she hadn’t fully considered that Malfoy might have other plans, locked in his house as he was.
“不，”赫敏说，这种热度与她脸颊上升起的太阳无关。反正她不会这么说。没错，她没有完全考虑到马尔福可能还有其他计划，像他一样被锁在他的房子里。

“Why are you inflicting yourself upon me half an hour before you need to?”
“你为什么在你需要的时候半小时就对我下手呢？”

“Oh,” Hermione said, tucking her hair behind her ear and feeling exceptionally awkward, “well… “
“哦，”赫敏说，把头发掖到耳后，感觉特别尴尬，“嗯......“

The sound of four padding paws and loud panting signalled the arrival of Malfoy's dog, saving Hermione the trouble of answering. The dog was shaggy, grey and fairly large, coming up to just above Hermione’s knee, though she got the feeling it still had further to grow. With its ball in its mouth, the dog ran around her in a tight circle, its tail wagging and bashing against her legs. Hermione laughed, turning in a circle to watch its progress before it stilled enough to snuffle her hand with its cold, wet nose. 
四只拍打爪子的声音和响亮的喘息声预示着马尔福的狗到来了，省去了赫敏回答的麻烦。那条狗毛茸茸的，灰色的，相当大的，刚好超过赫敏的膝盖，尽管她觉得它还要进一步长大。这只狗嘴里叼着球，绕着她绕着她跑，尾巴摇晃着，撞击着她的腿。赫敏笑了起来，转了一圈观察它的进展，然后它才平静下来，用它冰冷、湿润的鼻子捏住了她的手。

“Oh!” she exclaimed. Allowing her bag to slip from her shoulder onto the grass, Hermione got down to her knees and buried her hands in the dog’s coat, letting it sniff her properly. She would never have expected Lucius Malfoy to have a dog so affectionate. “What’s their name?”
“噢！”赫敏让她的包从肩膀上滑到草地上，跪下来，把手埋在狗的外套里，让它好好地闻她。她从来没有想过卢修斯·马尔福会养一只如此深情的狗。“他们叫什么名字？”

Hermione looked up at Malfoy and saw his expression was tight, his lips thin. He looked like he wanted to drag the dog away by its tail. “Cato. He’s a Scottish deerhound.”
赫敏抬头看向马尔福，看到他的表情紧绷，嘴唇薄薄的。他看起来好像想拽着狗的尾巴把狗拖走。“卡托。他是一只苏格兰猎鹿犬。

“He’s just lovely,” Hermione said, her eyes leaving Malfoy as she used both hands to scratch around the panting dog’s ears.
“他就是很可爱，”赫敏说，她的眼睛离开了马尔福，用双手挠了挠这只气喘吁吁的狗的耳朵。

“He’s not fully trained yet. He’s still quite young.”
“他还没有完全训练。他还很年轻。

Cato hopped around Hermione as she clambered back to her feet and she reached down to clap his head again. “He seems very friendly to me.” Tearing her eyes away from the dog, she glanced at Lucius. “Or is that the problem?”
卡托在赫敏爬回去站起来时，在赫敏周围跳来跳去，她又伸手拍了拍他的头。“他似乎对我非常友好。”她把目光从狗身上移开，瞥了卢修斯一眼。“或者这就是问题所在？”

Malfoy arched an eyebrow and said nothing more which Hermione took as confirmation that, yes, that was the problem. Any dog of Lucius Malfoy’s would not be friendly with a Mudblood was surely the implication. It was, at least, Hermione’s inference. 
马尔福扬起眉毛，没有再说什么，赫敏认为这是对，是的，这就是问题所在。卢修斯·马尔福的任何一条狗都不会对泥巴种友好，这肯定是言下之意。至少，这是赫敏的推断。

“You didn’t answer my question,” he said. “Why are you here early?”
“你没有回答我的问题，”他说。“你怎么来得早？”

Eyes on Cato as he gathered his ball between his teeth, Hermione adjusted her bag back onto her shoulder. “I have a date,” she mumbled, “and the timings sort of…overlapped.”
赫敏盯着卡托，把他的球夹在牙缝里，把她的包调整回她的肩膀上。“我有个约会，”她喃喃自语，“时间差不多......重叠。

“A date,” came Malfoy's blank reply.
“约会，”马尔福茫然地回答。

Hermione’s eyes flicked to his and defensiveness bubbled up in her chest at the look of surprise on his face. “ Yes , a date.  It’s an appointment between two people hoping to make a romantic connection.”
赫敏的眼睛瞥向他，他脸上惊讶的表情让她的胸口冒出了防御的气息。“是的，一个约会。 这是两个人之间的约会，希望建立浪漫的联系。

“I know what a date is, Miss Granger.”
“我知道什么是约会，格兰杰小姐。”

“Well then, don’t say it like you don’t,” she snapped, embarrassed. “There wasn’t anything about them in the Pure-blood customs book, was there? Plenty of things about chaperoned meetings, mind,” she added with an eye roll.
“那么，别说得像你没说的那样，”她尴尬地厉声说。“纯血统的海关簿上没有关于他们的任何事情，对吧？很多关于有人陪伴的会议的事情，介意，“她翻了个白眼补充道。

“That book is rather old,” Malfoy said, looking down his nose at her. “I started at Hogwarts in the 1960s, not the 1860s.”
“那本书相当古老，”马尔福说，低头看着她。“我从 1960 年代开始在霍格沃茨上学，而不是 1860 年代。”

Hermione’s blush deepened. “Well, it’s at 2.30 so I was kind of hoping you wouldn’t mind starting a little bit earlier today. I don’t even mind recording out here; I’m sure the Wheezebox will be fine outside if I’m careful.” 
赫敏的脸红得更深了。“嗯，现在是 2.30，所以我有点希望你不介意今天早一点开始。我什至不介意在这里录音;如果我小心的话，我敢肯定 Wheezebox 在外面会没事的。

Rummaging through her bag, Hermione withdrew the tiny gramophone and balanced it in the palm of her hand as she looked up at him hopefully. 
赫敏在包里翻找着，拿出那台小小的留声机，用手心平衡着它，满怀希望地抬头看着他。

With a sharp exhale through his nose, Lucius Malfoy’s gaze travelled from the Wheezebox to Hermione and then back again. “Very well. But do not make a habit of this, Miss Granger. I find it disrespectful in the extreme.”
卢修斯·马尔福从鼻子里猛地呼出一口气，目光从喘息盒移到赫敏身上，然后又移回来。“很好。但不要养成这种习惯，格兰杰小姐。我觉得这是极不尊重的。

Muttering ‘sorry’ under her breath, Hermione hastened to withdraw her wand from her bag and considered the Wheezebox for a moment. To make walking easier, she waved her wand in a small spiral above the Wheezebox so that it rose into the air and floated between them at head height. That would surely get the sound better. She would just have to have her Quick Quotes Quill work from the recording later. With a self-satisfied smile, Hermione cut her eyes to Malfoy who gazed stonily back at her. 
赫敏低声喃喃道“对不起”，赶紧从包里拿出魔杖，考虑了一会儿喘息盒。为了方便行走，她在 Wheezebox 上方以一个小螺旋形挥舞魔杖，使其上升到空中，并以头部高度漂浮在他们之间。那肯定会让声音变得更好。她只需要让她的 Quick Quotes Quill 稍后从录音中工作。赫敏得意地笑了笑，把目光投向马尔福，马尔福则目不转睛地看着她。

“What are you doing on this date that makes it essential that it take place in the middle of the day?” he asked, his eyes dropping to her summer dress. Hermione couldn’t tell if he was judging it or not.
“你在这个约会里做了什么，让它必须在中午进行？” 他问道，他的眼睛落在她的夏装上。赫敏不知道自己是在评判还是不是在评判。

“We’re going for ice cream,” she said, pulling at the dress from behind and hoping he wouldn’t notice. Maybe it was too short. 
“我们要去吃冰淇淋，”她说，从后面拉着裙子，希望他不会注意到。也许它太短了。

“Ice cream,” he replied with that same blankness as he had said ‘date’. Before Hermione could speak he held up a hand, his face pained. “I know what ice cream is.”
“冰淇淋，”他回答道，语气和他说“约会”时一样茫然。赫敏还没来得及说话，他就举起了一只手，脸上带着痛苦。“我知道冰淇淋是什么。”

Hermione shrugged. “It’s only a first date.”
赫敏耸耸肩。“这只是第一次约会。”

“Clearly,” he murmured and, without another word, began walking in the direction that Cato had run. Hermione jogged forwards to join him and the Wheezebox floated through the air alongside them. 
“显然，”他喃喃自语，一言不发，开始朝着Cato跑的方向走去。赫敏小跑着向前走，加入了他的行列，喘息盒在他们旁边漂浮在空中。

“Draco once led me to believe that you were with the Weasley boy.” He said ‘Weasley’ as though it tasted off in his mouth, like something curdled.
“德拉科曾经让我相信你和那个韦斯莱男孩在一起。”他说“韦斯莱”，仿佛在他嘴里尝起来很臭，就像什么凝结的东西一样。

“No,” Hermione said, her voice rising with surprise that Malfoy might have listened to anything about her from his son. “That didn’t work out. It ended quite a long time ago.”
“不，”赫敏说，她的声音提高了，惊讶于马尔福可能从他儿子那里听到了关于她的任何事情。“那没有成功。它很久以前就结束了。

Malfoy didn’t say anything in response and they fell into an awkward silence, through which Hermione bit down her urge to explain why she and Ron didn't work out. It didn't seem like the kind of thing Lucius Malfoy would care to know.
马尔福没有回应，他们陷入了尴尬的沉默，赫敏忍住了她想要解释为什么她和罗恩没有解决的冲动。这似乎不是卢修斯·马尔福（Lucius Malfoy）关心的那种事情。

Hermione was relieved when the sound of panting signalled the return of Cato. Bounding up to her, the dog dropped its ball at her feet. Pausing, she looked up at Malfoy who raised his eyebrows and said nothing. Bending down, Hermione lifted the ball and grinned as Cato jumped excitedly around her until she finally drew her arm back and threw the ball as hard as she could. Once Cato had taken off again, barking all the while, they carried on walking. 
当喘息声表明卡托回来时，赫敏松了一口气。狗跳到她身边，把球丢在了她的脚边。停顿了一下，她抬头看向马尔福，马尔福扬起眉毛，什么也没说。赫敏弯下腰，举起球，咧嘴一笑，卡托兴奋地在她周围跳来跳去，直到她终于把手臂缩回来，用尽全力把球扔了出去。当卡托再次起飞时，他们一直在吠叫，继续走着。

“I don’t think he needs any more training,” Hermione said fondly as the dog’s excitable yelps drifted back on the warm breeze in the grounds.
“我觉得他不需要更多的训练，”赫敏深情地说，狗兴奋的叫声在院子里温暖的微风中飘回去。

“It’s just as well that what you think doesn’t matter then, isn’t it?” Lucius said quietly.
“那你的想法也无关紧要，不是吗？”卢修斯轻声说道。

“Let’s just begin,” she replied, rolling her eyes. 
“我们开始吧，”她翻了个白眼回答。

“Let’s.” 
“我们走吧。”

Reaching up, Hermione tapped the floating Wheezebox with her wand, sliding it into her bag afterwards. “So, what happened when you left school?”
赫敏伸手用魔杖敲了敲漂浮的喘息盒，然后把它滑进了她的包里。“那么，你离开学校时发生了什么？”

“Several things in quick succession,” Lucius said, shoving his hands into his pockets as he walked, “the most important amongst them being that I took the mark and my father died.”
“接二连三，”卢修斯说，边走边把手塞进口袋里，“其中最重要的是我拿了标记，我爸爸死了。

“Oh,” Hermione said, thrown by the cold casualness with which he spoke of such significant life events. “I'm sorry.”
“哦，”赫敏说，他谈到如此重大的生活事件时，用一种冷淡的随意态度感到困惑。“对不起。”

“Don't lie,” he drawled, glancing down at her with his lip curled. “ I wasn't.”
“别撒谎，”他抽搐着，弯起嘴唇低头瞥了她一眼。“我没有。”

“He died of dragon pox, didn’t he?”
“他死于龙痘，不是吗？”

“That’s what the report said.”
“报告是这么说的。”

There was something in the indifference of Malfoy’s tone that made Hermione give him a sidelong look but his face was inscrutable. “Did you continue to live with your mother?”
马尔福语气中的冷漠让赫敏侧头看了他一眼，但他的脸色却高深莫测。“你继续和妈住在一起吗？”

“She had been dead several years by that point,” he said, glancing into the bushes to their left. Hermione subtly leaned forward to look past him and follow his gaze but she couldn’t see anything that seemed likely to be holding his attention. “It was only my father and I for much of my school career.”
“那时她已经死了好几年了，”他说，瞥了一眼他们左边的灌木丛。赫敏巧妙地向前倾身，想越过他，顺着他的目光看去，但她看不到任何似乎可能引起他注意的东西。“在我学校生涯的大部分时间里，只有我和我爸爸。”

Hermione left a small pause, wondering if he would elaborate on the death of his mother but his silence was resolute, as was his gaze in the opposite direction to her. Feeling specifics in that area weren’t especially pertinent, despite personal curiosity, Hermione decided to move smoothly on.
赫敏停顿了一会儿，想知道他是否要详细说明他母亲的死，但他的沉默是坚决的，他的目光也看向了她的对面。那个领域的具体感觉并不是特别相关，尽管个人很好奇，但赫敏还是决定顺利地继续前进。

“So you inherited his estate and took the mark after his death?”
“所以你继承了他的财产，并在他死后继承了这个印记？”

“Yes,” Malfoy said, his eyes now returning straight ahead. “I replaced him in the inner circle. It made sense.”
“是的，”马尔福说，他的眼睛现在直直地回到前方。“我取代了他在核心圈子里的位置。这是有道理的。

“Can you tell me about getting the Dark Mark?” Hermione asked, her eyes raking the crisp white sleeves of his shirt. It was usually the left arm, the arm that was farthest from her. As though sensing her stare, he looked down and withdrew his hands from his pockets. 
“你能跟我说说关于得到黑暗印记的事情吗？”赫敏问道，她的眼睛耙着他衬衫清爽的白色袖子。通常是左臂，离她最远的手臂。仿佛感觉到她的凝视，他低下头，从口袋里抽出双手。

“If you want to see it you need only ask, Miss Granger,” he said with a knowing look, bringing his hand up to toy with his cufflinks. 
“如果你想看，你只需要问就知道了，格兰杰小姐，”他带着会心的眼神说，同时抬起手来玩弄他的袖扣。

“Oh,” Hermione flushed a deep pink and looked away. “I, er – I wasn’t sure if that’s–”
“哦，”赫敏脸红了一脸深红，把目光移开了。“我，呃——我不确定那是不是——”

“Invasive and rather presumptuous? Well, I’d say that’s you to a tee.”
“侵略性，而且相当自以为是？好吧，我想说这就是你。

Hermione turned her head round to glare at him so fast that her long curls swept off one shoulder and down her back. “Go on, then. Let me see.”
赫敏转过头来瞪着他，速度如此之快，以至于她的长卷发从一侧肩膀滑落到她的背部。“那么，请继续。让我看看。

A smirk on his face, Malfoy stopped walking, forcing Hermione to stop with him. He undid his cufflink, slid it into his pocket and began rolling up his shirt sleeve to reveal the pale skin of his forearm, Hermione carefully inspecting his every move. When his shirt was around his elbow, he turned towards Hermione properly, revealing his inner forearm. 
马尔福脸上露出得意的笑容，停下了脚步，迫使赫敏和他一起停下来。他解开袖扣，把它塞进口袋里，开始卷起衬衫袖子，露出前臂苍白的皮肤，赫敏仔细地检查着他的一举一动。当他的衬衫套在肘部时，他适当地转向赫敏，露出了他的前臂内侧。

She’d never really looked at the Dark Mark before. Not up close and with no sense of impending doom. Stepping closer to him, Hermione bent forward slightly to inspect it. Her face came close enough to his arm that her breath ghosted over it and he clenched his fist in response to the sensation, his tendons flexing. 
她以前从来没有真正看过黑暗标记。不是近距离的，也没有即将到来的厄运的感觉。赫敏靠近他，微微向前弯下腰来检查它。她的脸贴得足够近，以至于她的呼吸在上面鬼魂般地喘息着，他紧握着拳头作为回应，他的肌腱弯曲着。

The mark was very faded, closer to a scar than a tattoo. Her fingers twitched with the urge to touch it but one glance up at Malfoy’s stony face reminded her who she was with and how very unwelcome that would likely be.
那个印记很褪色，更像是疤痕，而不是纹身。她的手指抽搐着，想触摸它，但抬头看了一眼马尔福那张坚硬的脸，她想起了她和谁在一起，以及那可能是多么不受欢迎。

“How did he do it?” she asked, straightening up and giving Malfoy the signal that he could roll his sleeve back down. 
“他是怎么做到的？”她问道，直起身来，向马尔福示意他可以把袖子卷回去。

“That was a very secret ritual, Miss Granger,” he said, securing his sleeve again. “I will not divulge the details, even now.”
“那是一个非常秘密的仪式，格兰杰小姐，”他说，又把袖子拉上了。“即使是现在，我也不会透露细节。”

Hermione pursed her lips, frustrated. “Well, is there anything you can tell me about it?”
赫敏沮丧地抿了抿嘴唇。“嗯，你有什么可以告诉我的吗？”

“It was extremely painful.”
“这非常痛苦。”

He was so matter-of-fact about it that Hermione couldn’t help but scour his face for any other information. As usual, it gave nothing away so she turned and re-started their progress across the lawns. “How did it feel to join Voldemort’s inner circle, Mr Malfoy?”
他实事求是，以至于赫敏忍不住在他的脸上搜寻任何其他信息。像往常一样，它什么都没有泄露出去，所以她转身重新开始他们在草坪上的前进。“加入伏地魔的核心圈子是什么感觉，马尔福先生？”

“Exhilarating.” His voice was soft but Hermione was sure the Wheezebox would be able to pick it up. “I was thrilled that the wizarding world was going to change and I was going to be a part of that.”
“令人振奋。”他的声音很轻柔，但赫敏确信Wheezebox能接住它。“我很高兴魔法世界将发生变化，我将成为其中的一部分。”

“You believed you were going to be a part of the effort to put Pure-bloods on top again,” Hermione stated by way of asking, calling back to what he’d told her in their last meeting. 
“你相信你会成为让纯血统再次登上顶峰的努力的一部分，”赫敏问道，回想起了他上次见面时告诉她的话。

“Yes,” he said, glancing over at her with cold eyes. “No Mudbloods. Or at the very least, servile Mudbloods.”
“是的，”他说，用冰冷的眼神瞥了她一眼。“没有泥巴种。或者至少，奴性地 Mudbloods。

“How wonderful for you,” Hermione said, her tone dry enough to make her feel thirsty.
“你真是太好了，”赫敏说，她的语气干涩到足以让她感到口渴。

“It was. I was the youngest member of the Dark Lord’s inner-circle at that time and he trusted me implicitly.”
“是的。当时我是黑魔王核心圈子里最年轻的成员，他暗中信任我。

“And why was that? What prompted him to put that trust in you?”
“为什么呢？是什么促使他把这种信任放在你身上？

“I was willing to do anything,” Lucius said, his expression distant. 
“我愿意做任何事情，”卢修斯说，他的表情很遥远。

“What constitutes anything?”
“什么构成了任何东西？”

A bitter smile played about his lips and he gave Hermione a sceptical look out of the corner of his eyes. “I don’t think you want to know the answer to that question, Miss Granger.” He shook his head. “Not really.” 
他的嘴角露出苦涩的笑容，他用眼角的余光怀疑地看了赫敏一眼。“我想你不想知道这个问题的答案，格兰杰小姐。”他摇摇头。“不是。”

“I don’t ask questions I don’t want the answer to,” Hermione said icily. 
“我不会问我不想得到答案的问题，”赫敏冷冷地说。

“Mm, but you never seem to have any compunctions when it comes to answering questions nobody asked,” Lucius murmured. He looked down at her properly then and Hermione met his eyes, unblinking. It was fortunate that the Malfoy’s gardens were so well-kept, otherwise she would have run the risk of tripping over something. 
“嗯，但你似乎在回答没人问的问题时从来没有任何自责，”卢修斯喃喃自语道。然后他低头看着她，赫敏与他的眼睛对上，一眨不眨。幸运的是，马尔福家的花园打理得如此完好，否则她会冒着被什么东西绊倒的风险。

“I gave him my time,” he finally said on an exhale, “as well as a great deal of my fortune. I blackmailed, threatened and tortured both inside and outside the Ministry, though mostly inside. I was most useful there thanks to my inherited connections.”
“我把我的时间给了他，”他终于呼出一口气说，“还有我的大部分财富。我在魔法部内外都进行了勒索、威胁和折磨，尽管主要是在内部。多亏了我继承的人脉，我在那里最有用。

Cato returned to them with a happy bark and Hermione tore her gaze away from Malfoy, feeling somewhat queasy. The presence of a happy dog, its tail wagging in the bright sunshine did not fit their conversation. Malfoy stopped his walking so that Hermione could bend down to pick up the ball and throw it again, though she did so with a touch less enthusiasm than before and no smiles.
卡托高兴地吠叫着回到他们身边，赫敏把目光从马尔福身上移开，感到有些恶心。一只快乐的狗在明亮的阳光下摇晃着尾巴，这与他们的谈话格格不入。马尔福停下了他的脚步，这样赫敏就可以弯下腰捡起球再扔一次，尽管她这样做时比以前少了一点热情，也没有笑容。

“You must have been around 18,” she said once Cato had taken off at high speed, his ears fluttering in the wind. "When you started doing all this."
“你肯定在 18 岁左右，”当 Cato 高速起飞时，她的耳朵在风中飘动。“当你开始做这一切的时候。”

"Yes."
“是的。”

"That's very young, don't you think?"
“那还很年轻，你不觉得吗？”

“I'd wager that's around the age you joined the war, yes?"
“我敢打赌，那大概是你参战的年龄，对吧？”

“Yes, I suppose it was." 
“是的，我想是的。”

He simply nodded and didn’t add anything more. Hermione cleared her throat, struggling to look at him. “Did you…enjoy doing those things?”
他只是点点头，没有再多说什么。赫敏清了清嗓子，挣扎着看他。“你是不是......喜欢做那些事情吗？

“It wasn’t about enjoyment, Miss Granger.” He shook his head impatiently. “They were a necessity in our efforts to destabilise the Ministry and what was then the order of things. I did what was necessary to serve a cause that was larger than myself. I wasn’t weak. That is why the Dark Lord trusted me and that is why I rose through the ranks.”
“这与享受无关，格兰杰小姐。”他不耐烦地摇摇头。“他们是我们努力破坏魔法部和当时秩序的必要条件。我做了必要的事情来服务于一个比我自己更大的事业。我并不弱。这就是黑魔王信任我的原因，也是我晋升的原因。

“Because you weren’t weak,” she repeated, wondering if he would notice the doubt and anger creeping into her voice. 
“因为你并不软弱，”她重复道，想知道他是否会注意到她声音中悄悄流露的怀疑和愤怒。

She thought she’d done rather well to keep it down thus far but the feelings were rising like bile in her throat and it was only a matter of time before they came out in her words. To her mind, the things he had done did not constitute strength. “Why were the Muggle attacks necessary, if you don’t mind me asking?”
她认为到目前为止她已经很好地控制住了它，但这种感觉像胆汁一样在她的喉咙里上升，它们在她的话语中出来只是时间问题。在她看来，他所做的事并不构成力量。“如果你不介意我问的话，为什么麻瓜的袭击是必要的？”

“Excuse me?”
“什么？”

“That’s what you lot did, wasn’t it? You and the other Death Eaters. You attacked Muggles. For sport, I heard. Saw, even, at the Quidditch World Cup. I don’t think attacking defenceless Muggles makes you particularly strong and, while I’m sure it depends on who you ask, I don’t think sport is particularly necessary either. They didn’t even know you existed and you punished them for…what? Being less powerful than you?”
“你们就是这么做的，不是吗？你和其他食死徒。你攻击了麻瓜。对于运动，我听说。甚至在魁地奇世界杯上。我不认为攻击手无寸铁的麻瓜会让你特别强壮，虽然我确定这取决于你问谁，但我也不认为运动是特别必要的。他们甚至不知道你的存在，你惩罚他们......什么？不如你强大？

“Less powerful, lesser overall. We were going to take over and they had to learn what their place would be in the new order. They had to learn to fear us.”
“力量较弱，整体较差。我们要接管，他们必须了解他们在新秩序中的位置。他们必须学会害怕我们。

“Yeah, okay. Sure.” Hermione snorted gracelessly, drawing a disgusted look from Malfoy. “That’s all any of this is, really, isn’t it? Fear.”
“是的，好的。当然。赫敏优雅地哼了一声，引来了马尔福厌恶的眼神。“这就是这一切，真的，不是吗？恐惧。

“I’m sure I don’t know—”
“我确定我不知道——”

“You’re afraid. Always have been.”
“你害怕。一直都是。

As though he’d hit a brick wall, Malfoy stopped dead and looked at her with the expression of a man who could hardly believe what he was hearing. Somewhere overhead a bird trilled and the sound of the bubbling fountain was soft behind them. 
就像他撞到了一堵砖墙一样，马尔福停了下来，用一个几乎不敢相信自己所听到的男人的表情看着她。头顶上的某个地方，一只鸟儿颤抖着，他们身后传来潺潺流淌的喷泉的声音。

“I am not —”
“我不是——”

“Not of anyone in particular,” Hermione carried on. “It’s a different kind of fear—it’s so instilled in you it probably feels natural. I mean, fear is natural, I suppose, but it’s not always rational and I—” Hermione huffed out a sigh, brows low in a frown. “I’m not explaining myself very well, am I?”
“不是特别的，”赫敏继续说。“这是一种不同的恐惧——它如此灌输给你，它可能感觉很自然。我的意思是，恐惧是自然的，我想，但它并不总是理性的，我——“赫敏叹了口气，眉头低垂着。“我没有很好地解释自己，对吧？”

He swallowed, his jaw jutted to the side. “You are doing the opposite and I think you had best explain yourself to my satisfaction or this meeting will end shortly and you will not return here.”
他咽了口口水，下巴向一侧突出。“你做的事反了，我想你最好把自己解释得令我满意，否则这次会议很快就会结束，你不会再回来了。”

“Mr Malfoy, I’ve spent weeks studying your family.” He nodded approvingly, his chin raised in a prideful way that made Hermione want to roll her eyes. “The Malfoy name goes quite far back and it’s been involved in the development of the British Wizarding World almost from the beginning.”
“马尔福先生，我花了好几个星期来研究你的家庭。”他赞同地点点头，骄傲地抬起下巴，让赫敏想翻白眼。“马尔福这个名字可以追溯到很久以前，它几乎从一开始就参与了英国魔法世界的发展。”

“I’m very aware of this, Miss Granger. It’s hardly news to—”
“我非常清楚这一点，格兰杰小姐。这不是什么新闻——”

“My research has allowed me to…see certain things,” Hermione continued, ignoring him entirely. She started walking again, more slowly this time, her hands moving as she spoke. After a moment, he fell into step beside her, his longer legs making it easy for him to catch up. “It’s allowed me to make certain connections. Did you know, for instance, that before the Statute of Secrecy, your family was more than happy to interact with Muggles?”
“我的研究使我能够......看到某些东西，“赫敏继续说，完全无视他。她又开始走路了，这次走得更慢了，她的手随着她说话而移动。过了一会儿，他倒在了她身边，他较长的双腿让他很容易追上。“它让我能够建立某些联系。例如，你知道吗，在保密法规之前，你的家人非常乐意与麻瓜互动？

Malfoy stopped again and Hermione turned to look at him, seeing his lips pressed thin. Cato came bounding up to them, this time dropping the ball closer to Malfoy and panting up at him. It took Malfoy a moment to notice that his dog was even there but as he bent down to pick up the ball, he didn’t take his eyes from Hermione.
马尔福又停了下来，赫敏转过头看着他，看到他的嘴唇紧紧地抿着。卡托跳向他们走来，这一次把球丢得离马尔福更近了，气喘吁吁地看着他。马尔福花了一点时间才注意到他的狗甚至在那里，但当他弯下腰捡球时，他的眼睛没有从赫敏身上移开。

“Not ordinary Muggles, of course,” Hermione waved a hand, sweeping the notion away for being so ridiculous. “They were rich and powerful Muggles. The cream of the crop, really. Your own namesake, Lucius Malfoy the first, was in the position to try to win the hand of a Muggle queen, or so I read.”
“当然不是普通的麻瓜，”赫敏挥了挥手，把这个想法扫除了，因为太荒谬了。“他们是有钱有势的麻瓜。真的，这是最精华的。你自己的名字，卢修斯·马尔福一世，正处于试图赢得麻瓜女王之手的位置，至少我是这么读的。

Lucius gripped the ball, his eyes blazing. “That is debated and I—”
卢修斯紧紧抓住球，眼睛炯炯有神。“那是有争议的，我——”

“I’m sure your family saw these Muggles as inferior to them because of their lack of magical power but their wealth and influence redressed the balance somewhat. In a world where Wizarding and Muggle societies weren’t rigidly divided, those Muggles were useful; they sat at the top and the Malfoys sat on top of them. But then, of course, the Statute of Secrecy was passed.”
“我敢肯定，你的家族认为这些麻瓜不如他们，因为他们缺乏魔法力量，但他们的财富和影响力在一定程度上改变了这种平衡。在一个巫师和麻瓜社会没有严格划分的世界里，那些麻瓜是有用的;他们坐在上面，马尔福一家坐在他们上面。但后来，当然，保密法规通过了。

“As was right.”
“说得对。”

“Hm, your ancestor Florian Malfoy didn’t think so.” Hermione raised her eyebrows. “He was quite against it for a time. Can you imagine why?”
“嗯，你的祖先弗洛里安·马尔福不这么认为。”赫敏扬起眉毛。“他有一段时间非常反对。你能想象为什么吗？

Malfoy said nothing, his eyes fixed on her as he remained oblivious to Cato’s whining and snuffling at his hand. 
马尔福什么也没说，他的眼睛盯着她，对卡托的抱怨和抽搐他的手视而不见。

“I have some theories," Hermione continued archly. "Largely, the Statute of Secrecy was for the protection of witches and wizards at risk of persecution in the Muggle witch hunts but, as those disproportionately victimised the poor and powerless, I suppose Malfoys never really had to worry about them. Florian Malfoy didn’t really like the idea of his family losing their useful foothold in the Muggle world. Still, when it became clear the Statute couldn’t be stopped and that a new seat of power would be formed in the Ministry of Magic, your family got on board with the new world."
“我有一些理论，”赫敏继续说道。“在很大程度上，保密法规是为了保护在麻瓜猎巫行动中面临迫害风险的女巫和巫师，但是，由于这些行为不成比例地伤害了穷人和无权无势的人，我想马尔福从来就不需要真正担心他们。”弗洛里安·马尔福并不喜欢他的家人在麻瓜世界失去有用的立足点。尽管如此，当法规显然无法阻止，魔法部将形成一个新的权力宝座时，你的家人就加入了这个新世界。

Hermione watched Cato’s desperate attempts to get his owner's attention but Malfoy couldn't seem to tear his eyes away from her, held still by some kind of horrified fascination. 
赫敏看着卡托不顾一切地试图引起他主人的注意，但马尔福似乎无法将目光从她身上移开，被某种惊恐的迷恋所束缚住。

"Problem was, it was a new world where everyone was magical. For a family that had become used to deriving their power from their wealth and their magic that must have been rather jarring. Suddenly, retaining that generational wealth became key to keeping power and influence. But how to justify having such exorbitant sums when you were witches and wizards just like everyone else? I think your family probably looked to their aristocratic Muggle friends for tips at this point.”
“问题是，这是一个每个人都很神奇的新世界。对于一个已经习惯了从财富和魔法中获取力量的家族来说，这一定是相当不和谐的。突然之间，保留世代财富成为保持权力和影响力的关键。但是，当你和其他人一样是女巫和巫师时，如何证明拥有如此高昂的金额呢？我想你的家人现在可能向他们的贵族麻瓜朋友寻求建议。

Life seemed to jolt back into Malfoy and he raised his hand to point aggressively in Hermione's direction. “Miss Granger, you are goin—”
生活似乎又回到了马尔福的心中，他抬起手，咄咄逼人地指向赫敏的方向。“格兰杰小姐，你要去——”

“They weaponised ancestry and class,” Hermione said staunchly, her lips pursed and her hands on her hips. “To be at the top you need to establish a bottom, so to justify their wealth and self-professed superiority, your family championed arbitrary sub-divisions of the magical community. Magic was not just magic and all magical people weren’t made equal. Old, pre-existing prejudices, certainly, but those are easy to dust off and re-fashion as the need arises. I imagine the pervasive negative feelings towards Muggles in the aftermath of the Statute and the witch hunts really helped make it all stick. When Muggles are mistrusted and disliked, it’s rather easy to make it so that any witch or wizard born in connection with them should also be mistrusted and disliked. It makes it so easy to believe that Muggleborns are lesser, that their magic is somehow tainted as a result of their heritage, and the Malfoys were able to set themselves up as the opposite. Because, of course, Malfoy’s didn't mix with Muggles. Anymore, at least. Perish the thought. They’re the best .” Hermione’s expression was fierce as she added, “The best at hypocrisy, anyway.”
“他们把血统和阶级当成武器，”赫敏坚定地说，她抿着嘴唇，双手放在臀部上。“要成为顶端，你需要建立一个底层，所以为了证明他们的财富和自称的优越感，你的家族支持魔法界的任意细分。魔法不仅仅是魔法，所有魔法的人都不是平等的。当然，旧的、预先存在的偏见，但这些偏见很容易掸去灰尘，并在需要时重新塑造。我想象着在法规和猎巫行动之后对麻瓜普遍存在的负面情绪真的帮助这一切坚持了下来。当麻瓜不被信任和讨厌时，很容易让任何与他们有关的女巫或巫师也应该被不信任和讨厌。这让人很容易相信麻瓜出身的人次等，他们的魔法由于他们的传统而在某种程度上受到了污染，而马尔福家族能够将自己定位为相反的人。因为，当然，马尔福的和麻瓜不混在一起。至少现在。消灭这个念头。他们是最好的。赫敏的表情很凶狠，她补充道，“不管怎么说，她最擅长虚伪。

“You will stop right now, Miss Granger, or I will stop you," Malfoy snarled, stepping towards her but finding his path impeded by the whining Cato.
“你现在就停下来，格兰杰小姐，或者我就拦住你，”马尔福咆哮着，向她走来，却发现他的去路被抱怨的卡托挡住了。

“All that Pure-blood superiority is,” Hermione pressed on, caught up in her own rant, her eyes gleaming, “is a narrative designed to keep all the wealth and power flowing through a small circle of the wizarding community. It’s a way to create the impression that you deserve all the advantages you have when, really, you and your family aren't any more remarkable than anyone else. It’s all just fear and greed. A convenient lie told through enough generations that people began to take it for truth. I’m not surprised you wouldn’t question it; why would you? It got you all this.” Hermione threw an arm out to indicate the verdant, sweeping grounds of Malfoy Manor.
“纯血统的优越感，”赫敏继续说，沉浸在自己的咆哮中，她的眼睛闪闪发光，“只是一个旨在让所有财富和权力在巫师界的小圈子里流动的叙事。这是一种给人留下印象的方式，即您应该拥有所有优势，而实际上，您和您的家人并不比其他人更出色。这一切都只是恐惧和贪婪。一个方便的谎言经过了足够多的世代传播，以至于人们开始将其视为真理。你不会质疑它，我并不感到惊讶;你为什么会呢？它让你得到了这一切。赫敏伸出一只手臂，指着马尔福庄园青翠、广阔的土地。

Cato was jumping around Malfoy’s feet, desperately signalling that he wanted the ball thrown, but Malfoy was clutching it tightly in one hand, his jaw clenched and his gaze fixed on Hermione with such intensity she rather thought he was trying to overcome the restrictions of his Magic Dampener to make her burst into flame. Slowly, she approached him and reached out to take the ball from his hands. As her fingers closed over his, his entire arm tensed and he jerked it away, dropping the ball into her waiting hand. 
卡托在马尔福的脚边跳来跳去，拼命示意他想把球扔出去，但马尔福一只手紧紧地抓着球，他的下巴紧紧地咬着，他的目光如此强烈地盯着赫敏，她宁愿以为他是在试图克服他的魔法阻尼器的限制，让她燃烧起来。她慢慢地靠近他，伸手从他手中接过球。当她的手指合拢在他的手指上时，他的整个手臂都绷紧了，他猛地把它抽开，把球丢进了她等待的手里。

“Thank you,” Hermione said softly. Turning away, she drew her arm back and threw the ball hard so that Cato could chase it. When she turned back, he was still staring at her, his eyes narrowed. 
“谢谢你，”赫敏轻声说。她转过身来，把手臂往后拉，用力把球扔出去，这样卡托就可以追球了。当她回头时，他仍然盯着她，眼睛眯了起来。

“Perhaps what you’re telling yourself is the convenient lie,” Lucius said, his eyes sliding to the retreating figure of Cato. “A way to make yourself feel better about your innate inferiority.”
“也许你对自己说的只是一个方便的谎言，”卢修斯说，他的眼睛滑向逐渐撤退的卡托身影。“一种让自己对自己天生的自卑感觉更好的方法。”

Huffing a sigh through her nose, Hermione tilted her head. “Superiority and inferiority aren’t innate. They’re…self-asserted and projected. That you would suggest otherwise shows how disconnected from reality you are; how fully you bought into the lie. It goes some way to explaining—to me at least—why you find it so easy to hate.”
赫敏从鼻子里叹了口气，歪了歪头。“优越和自卑不是与生俱来的。他们是......自我断言和投影。你不这么说表明你与现实有多么脱节;你是多么完全地相信了这个谎言。这在某种程度上解释了——至少对我而言——为什么你觉得讨厌这么容易。

His eyes snapped back to hers but for the first time he didn’t try to stop her speaking. 
他的眼睛猛地回到她的身上，但这是他第一次没有试图阻止她说话。

“That’s what I mean, Mr Malfoy. We hate what we fear and we fear what we hate. I mean…do you really think I’m filthy?” Hermione held out her arms so that he could look at her pristine dress in the sun. “Do I look dirty? Smell dirty?”
“我就是这个意思，马尔福先生。我们憎恨我们害怕的，我们害怕我们憎恨的。我的意思是。。。你真的觉得我很脏吗？赫敏伸出双臂，这样他就可以在阳光下看着她那件质朴的裙子。“我看起来很脏吗？闻起来很脏？

A single jerk of his head that was neither up and down, nor left and right, was all she got but she interpreted it as a 'no' because she knew she didn’t.  
他头上下不上下，也不左右地抽搐，就是她所能得到的，但她把它解释为“不”，因为她知道她没有。

“And how do you think I got my magic? Do you think I stole it?
“那你觉得我是怎么得到魔法的呢？你觉得我偷了它吗？

“No,” he spat. “That was some ridiculous pamphlet cobbled together by Umbridge as though magic can be—”
“不，”他啐了一口。“那是乌姆里奇拼凑起来的一本荒谬的小册子，仿佛魔法可以——”

“Then why do you think I have magic?”
“那你为什么觉得我有魔法？”

“You are an accident, an aberration.”
“你是个意外，一个反常。”

“An aberration.” Hermione nodded, her expression grave. “I see. So as an aberration—a departure from the norm— I suppose you could say I’m an exception to the rule that says magic belongs to purely magical families.” Malfoy’s eyes narrowed into slits and Hermione continued, satisfied that he knew exactly where she was going. “Someone once told me that exceptions undermine rules and so absolutism is pointless. Have you ever heard that?”
“一个反常。”赫敏点点头，表情严肃。“我明白了。所以作为一个反常——背离常态——我想你可以说我是魔法属于纯粹魔法家族的规则的例外。马尔福的眼睛眯成一条缝，赫敏继续说，满意他确切地知道她要去哪里。“有人曾经告诉我，例外会破坏规则，所以绝对主义毫无意义。你听说过吗？

“It’s different,” he said, his face cold and furious.
“不一样，”他说，脸色冰冷而愤怒。

“Oh, I’m sure it is. Squibs from ancient Pure-blood families, witches and wizards from Muggle families—all just freak accidents rather than proof that magic doesn’t accumulate in the blood to be either strengthened or diluted. Isn’t that right?”
“哦，我确定是这样。来自古代纯血统家庭的哑炮，来自麻瓜家庭的女巫和巫师——所有这些都只是怪异的意外，而不是证明魔法不会在血液中积累以加强或稀释。不是吗？

“Your magic has not been refined over centuries of good breeding.”
“你的魔法在几个世纪的良好繁殖中还没有得到提炼。”

“That’s not how it works, I’m afraid. I have magic just like yours and I’ve honed it through years of practice…just like you. If anything, when you’re wearing that.” Hermione gestured to his ankle, knowing the Magic Dampener lay under the leg of his trousers. “My magic is undeniably more powerful than yours. So where does that leave us? When I have the magic and you don’t? Does that make me better than you now? I suppose you still have the money…” She looked around the grounds appraisingly and then back at Malfoy, one eyebrow raised. 
“恐怕不是这样运作的。我有和你一样的魔法，我通过多年的练习磨练了它......就像你一样。如果有的话，当你穿着它时。赫敏指了指他的脚踝，知道魔法阻尼器就在他的裤腿下。“不可否认，我的魔法比你的更强大。那么，这给我们留下了什么呢？当我有魔法而你没有？那我现在比你更好吗？我想你还有钱......”她赞赏地环顾了一下场地，然后又看向马尔福，扬起了一根眉毛。

“You will leave, Miss Granger,” Lucius said, his hands clenched tight into fists. “Right now.”
“你会走的，格兰杰小姐，”卢修斯说，他的双手紧紧地握成拳头。“现在。”

Hermione didn’t care that he was clearly barely restraining himself, she just had to push. “How did you feel when you found out Voldemort was a Half-blood, Malfoy? That you’d unquestioningly served a man who had a Muggle father? Or is that the kind of thing that it’s actually fairly easy to gloss over when power and wealth are at stake? Because what does blood purity actually matter when it’s all fake?”
赫敏不在乎他显然是在勉强克制自己，她只需要推挤。“当你发现伏地魔是个混血儿时，你感觉如何，马尔福？你毫无疑问地为一个有麻瓜父亲的男人服务？或者，当权力和财富受到威胁时，这种事情实际上很容易被掩盖吗？因为当血液都是假的时，血液纯度实际上又有什么关系呢？

“Leave!” he barked, raising his voice to the loudest point Hermione had ever heard it reach.
“走！”他吼道，把声音提高到了赫敏听过的最响亮的程度。

With as much dignity as she could muster, Hermione drew her wand from her bag and tapped the Wheezebox to stop its recording. Grabbing it from the air, she shoved it into her bag. “My notes on your family are in the library if you care to look, Mr Malfoy. I have no interest in lying to you. Or for you.”
赫敏尽可能地鼓起尊严，从包里掏出魔杖，敲打着喘息器，停止了录音。她从空中抓起它，把它塞进了她的包里。“如果你愿意看的话，我关于你家庭的笔记就在图书馆里，马尔福先生。 我没兴趣对你撒谎。或者为了你。

With that, Hermione turned on her heel and made her way back to the house, her heart hammering as it sank its way down into her stomach. She’d fucked it again and almost certainly wasted her last chance. Despite that, she thought with a bitter smirk on her face, it felt worth it. Nothing about what he believed made sense to her and she was almost relieved by that.
说完，赫敏转身回到了房子里，她的心跳加速，沉入了她的胃里。她又操了一次，几乎可以肯定她浪费了最后的机会。尽管如此，她还是带着苦涩的笑容想，这感觉很值得。他所相信的东西对她来说毫无意义，她几乎因此松了一口气。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

A challenging chapter to write. Hope it wasn't frightfully boring! I promise this is the last time Hermione gets kicked out hahahaha. NEXT TIME: It's Malfoy's turn to engage in some suggested reading despite the rude manner in which he feels it was given *evil grin*
一个具有挑战性的篇章。希望这不是可怕的无聊！我保证这是赫敏最后一次被踢出去了哈哈哈。下一次：轮到马尔福进行一些建议的阅读了，尽管他觉得这被给了*邪恶的笑容*的粗鲁方式

Chapter 14
第十四章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione has a date and Lucius has a reading assignment.
赫敏有个约会对象，卢修斯有个读书作业。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you all for your kind words on the last chapter!
感谢大家在上一章的客气话！

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾“I mean, honestly, some of the things he’s said to me,” Hermione fumed, stabbing her tiny plastic spoon into a pale scoop of lavender ice cream. “No intelligent person could surely think that way. As though having a gene pool so shallow it needs a ‘no diving’ sign is somehow a mark of superiority.”
“我是说，老实说，他对我说的一些话，”赫敏生气地把她的小塑料勺子捅进了一勺苍白的薰衣草冰淇淋里。“没有一个聪明人肯定能这样想。就好像基因库如此浅以至于需要一个'禁止潜水'的标志在某种程度上是一种优越感的标志。

Hermione shovelled the ice cream into her mouth, barely tasting the flavour, and jabbed her spoon in the direction of a bewildered Terry Boot. “And I think that might be the worst thing, you know. I’m fairly sure he is intelligent. He’s just never bothered to question anything he’s been told because the lies suit him; they’re advantageous to him. The apathy ! The selfishness!”
赫敏把冰淇淋铲进嘴里，勉强尝到了味道，然后用勺子戳向困惑的特里靴的方向。“我认为这可能是最糟糕的事情，你知道的。我相当确定他很聪明。他只是从来懒得质疑他被告知的任何事情，因为谎言适合他;他们对他有利。冷漠！太自私了！

“The Slytherinness?” Terry interjected with a hesitant smile. 
“斯莱特林？”特里犹豫地笑着打断了他。

Mouth open, spoon in the air, Hermione stopped and looked at him. “Yes,” she said. “The Slytherinness.” Looking down at her almost finished ice cream, Hermione felt a burning shame and met Terry’s eye. “I’m so sorry, I’ve done nothing but rant at you since I got here.”
赫敏张着嘴，勺子在空中，停了下来，看着他。“是的，”她说。“斯莱特林。”赫敏低头看着她快吃完的冰淇淋，感到一阵灼热的羞耻，与特里的眼睛相遇。“我很抱歉，自从我来到这里以来，除了对你咆哮之外，我什么也没做。”

"That’s alright, I don’t mind listening."
“没关系，我不介意听。”

"No, you shouldn't have to listen to that. This should be nice." Hermione sighed and attempted to form something close to a smile. "How’s the butterbeer flavour?"
“不，你不应该听那个。这应该很好。赫敏叹了口气，试图形成一个接近微笑的东西。“黄油啤酒的味道怎么样？”

Terry smiled and pushed his tub towards Hermione, angling it so that the spoon was closer to her side. "Why don’t you try it?"
泰瑞微笑着把他的浴缸推向赫敏，调整它的角度，让勺子更靠近她的身边。“你为什么不试试呢？”

"Oh." Hermione hesitated. Ron had never shared and when he had offered it was always with the understanding that you wouldn't accept. "Are you sure?" 
“哦。”赫敏犹豫了。罗恩从来没有分享过，当他提出时，他总是明白你不会接受。“你确定吗？”

"It’s ice cream, Hermione." Terry gestured to the pastel surroundings of the ice cream parlour. "Not a finite resource here." 
“是冰淇淋，赫敏。”特里指了指冰淇淋店柔和的环境。“这里的资源不是有限的。”

Blushing, Hermione slid her own tub towards him. "Then you try some of mine."
赫敏脸红了，把自己的浴缸滑向他。“那你尝尝我的。”

"Deal." 
“成交。”

Their eyes met as they tried each other’s flavours and Hermione grinned, feeling unusually shy. It seemed ridiculous that something so innocuous could feel intimate, and yet. "Hey, it is good," she said.
他们的目光相遇，尝试着彼此的味道，赫敏咧嘴一笑，感觉异常害羞。如此无害的事情会让人感到亲密，这似乎很荒谬，然而。“嘿，这很好，”她说。

Terry stuck out his tongue, his face screwed up, and pushed her chosen ice cream back across the table. "I don’t think I’m a lavender guy."
Terry伸出舌头，脸上一团糟，把她选好的冰淇淋推回桌子对面。“我不认为我是一个喜欢薰衣草的人。”

Hermione quietly snorted a laugh. "You have no idea how much I’d have killed to hear that in school."
赫敏悄悄地哼了一声笑。“你不知道如果我在学校听到这些话，会付出多少代价。”

"What?"
“什么？”

"Er, never mind. Stupid joke," Hermione said with an apologetic grin. She was so unused to spending time outside of their group, where their private jokes actually were private.
“呃，没关系。愚蠢的笑话，“赫敏带着歉意的笑容说。她太不习惯在他们的小组之外花时间了，他们的私人笑话实际上是私人的。

"Don’t think you could ever do anything stupid."
“别以为你永远都能做任何蠢事。”

Well , Hermione thought with an astonished blink, that’s overt . Looking down because eye contact felt like a touch too much after quite possibly the most flirtatious compliment she’d heard in years, Hermione said, "You’ve had to listen to me go on and on about my work, as much as it is. Why don’t you tell me about the Archives?"
嗯，赫敏惊讶地眨了眨眼想，这太明显了。赫敏低下头，因为眼神交流感觉有点太过分了，这很可能是她多年来听到的最轻浮的赞美，赫敏说，“你得听我滔滔不绝地谈论我的工作，尽管它就是这样。你为什么不告诉我关于档案馆的事呢？

"Oh, it’s not exciting at all," he said with a self-effacing grin. 
“哦，一点也不刺激，”他带着自谦的笑容说。

"But it must be so interesting! Having access to all of that information."
“可是，这一定很有趣！可以访问所有这些信息。

"Interesting for sure but not exciting. I don’t know if it’s what I want to do forever."
“当然很有趣，但并不令人兴奋。我不知道这是否是我想永远做的事情。

"It can be hard to know that," Hermione said sympathetically. "So many options."
“知道这一点可能很难，”赫敏同情地说。“这么多选择。”

"Exactly! There’s so much to see and do. It feels a shame to spend my life in a windowless room."
“正是！有很多东西可以看和做。在没有窗户的房间里度过我的一生，感觉很可惜。

"A big change from Ravenclaw tower."
“与拉文克劳塔楼相比，这是一个很大的变化。”

"Yeah," he laughed, revealing his dimples again. Rubbing the back of his neck, Terry looked off to the side. "Er, look, I know you said you’re quite busy these days but do you want to go for a drink after this? There’s a new place down by Gringotts."
“是啊，”他笑了起来，再次露出了他的酒窝。Terry揉了揉他的后颈，看向一边。“呃，你看，我知道你说你这几天很忙，但之后你想去喝一杯吗？古灵阁那边有个新地方。

Hermione shifted her legs under the table, crossing one ankle over the other as she considered him. She was having a nice time, wasn’t she? And she certainly wasn’t going to be back at Malfoy Manor in any great hurry. "Sure. I’d love that."
赫敏把双腿移到桌子下面，一边打量着他，一边把一只脚踝交叉在另一只脚踝上。她玩得很开心，不是吗？而且她肯定不会匆忙回到马尔福庄园。“当然。我会喜欢的。

Lucius clutched his glass of firewhiskey, pressing his fingertips hard enough into the glass that his nails turned white. He'd done it every 5 minutes for an hour and he couldn't rid himself of the feeling of Granger's fingers ghosting over his own as she'd taken Cato’s ball from his hands. That she would dare to touch him.
卢修斯紧紧握着他的火威士忌杯，指尖用力地按在玻璃杯里，指甲都发白了。他每五分钟做一次，持续了一个小时，他无法摆脱格兰杰的手指在他自己的手指上滑过的感觉，因为她从他手中夺走了卡托的球。她敢碰他。

Impudent little Mudblood.  
无耻的小泥巴种。

Setting the glass down, Lucius flexed his fingers outwards to try something else. Standing in his grounds in her unaccountably short dress with her wild curls like some chaotic, troublemaking pixie. He should never have allowed Draco to convince him. He should never have allowed her back . Who was she to come to his home with all her self-righteousness and tell him that he was wrong? That generations of Malfoys were wrong ?
放下杯子，Lucius 向外弯曲手指，尝试其他东西。她穿着她那莫名其妙的短裙，狂野的卷发像什么混乱的、捣蛋的小精灵。他绝对不应该让德拉科说服他。他永远不应该让她回来。她是谁，竟然带着她所有的自以为是来到他家，告诉他他错了？几代马尔福都错了？

“My notes on your family are in the library if you care to look, Mr Malfoy. I have no interest in lying to you.” 
“如果你愿意看的话，我关于你家庭的笔记就在图书馆里，马尔福先生。 我没兴趣骗你。

No interest in lying indeed. Lucius scoffed and snatched up the glass to take a swig of his firewhiskey. 
确实没有兴趣撒谎。卢修斯嗤之以鼻，抓起酒杯，喝了一口他的火威士忌。

When she had kept the story of his divorce to herself he had been reluctantly impressed, if he was being generous. He thought that he had discovered a very rare thing indeed: a discreet Gryffindor. Rare things interested him. They were worthy of further study, at least, to see if they held any value. However, she had proven since then that she was everything else he hated about that forsaken house: self-righteous, indelicate, stubborn, hot-headed. And she wasn’t wrong when she said she had pride. It was undeserved. 
当她把他离婚的故事藏在心里时，如果他慷慨的话，他就不情愿地留下了深刻的印象。他以为自己确实发现了一件非常罕见的东西：一个低调的格兰芬多。很少有东西让他感兴趣。至少，它们值得进一步研究，看看它们是否有任何价值。然而，从那时起，她就证明了她就是他讨厌的那个被遗弃的房子的一切：自以为是、不成熟、固执、头脑发热。她说她有骄傲并没有错。这是不应该的。

Gritting his teeth, Lucius pushed himself from his chair and swept out of his study, firewhiskey in hand. The sun was low in the sky, making a show in its final hours by casting a blood red glow over his face as he marched along the corridor in the direction of the library. He wasn’t afraid of her notes. As though a Mudblood brain was really all that capable of grasping the complexity of the Malfoy family and the history of a world in which she didn’t even belong. 
Lucius咬紧牙关，从椅子上站起来，手里拿着火威士忌，大步走出了书房。太阳低垂在天空中，在最后的几个小时里，当他沿着走廊向图书馆的方向走去时，他的脸上投下了血红色的光芒。他不怕她的笔记。仿佛一个泥巴种的大脑真的能够理解马尔福家族的复杂性，以及一个她甚至不属于这个世界的历史。

Marching through the library doors, Malfoy shuddered at the sudden drop in temperature. The fire was burning itself out, its glow providing just enough light to see while barely making a difference to the temperature of the room. A feeling of frustrated impotence made him take another long drink. Letty was at a different house, as Granger’s stupid act permitted, and he didn’t have the magic to light the fire himself. He’d be damned before he got on his knees and did it the Muggle way. 
迈步穿过图书馆的门，马尔福对突然下降的气温感到不寒而栗。火势正在自行燃烧，它的光芒刚好提供了足够的光线，同时对房间的温度几乎没有影响。一种沮丧的无能为力的感觉使他又喝了一大口酒。莱蒂在另一所房子里，正如格兰杰的愚蠢行为所允许的那样，他没有自己点火的魔法。在他跪下来像麻瓜一样做这件事之前，他就该死了。

He was still haunted by the time, not long after Narcissa’s departure, that he had found himself desirous of tea and Draco had entered the kitchen to find him utterly stumped before the stove, unable to light the fire without his magic. Draco had done him the kindness of wordlessly lighting it and immediately leaving so that he could attempt to wrangle with the stovetop kettle on his own. Never having suffered the indignity of making his own tea, he hadn’t been entirely sure how to go about it. He’d barely ever stepped foot in the manor’s kitchen. The entire process had taken him an hour and the tea hadn’t even tasted good, which was infuriating because how difficult could it possibly be ? 
在纳西莎离开后不久，他发现自己很想喝茶，而德拉科走进厨房，发现他在炉子前完全被难住了，没有魔法就无法生火。德拉科好心地点燃了它，然后立即离开，这样他就可以自己尝试与炉灶水壶争论了。他从来没有因为自己泡茶而遭受过羞辱，所以他并不完全确定该怎么做。他几乎从未踏入过庄园的厨房。整个过程花了他一个小时，而且茶的味道甚至都不好，这很令人愤怒，因为这有多难？

The next day Lucius had found a box of matches on his desk, obviously left there by Draco. He had encountered the things before, of course; in his first year at Hogwarts he’d been tasked with transfiguring them into needles and he’d proven rather adept at it. But he’d never had to use them to light a fire like the Muggles. It struck him as primitive. He’d spent hours attempting to use them, with sporadic success. More than once he had burned his fingers and when he’d finally taken the matches to the kitchen to attempt another pot of tea it still hadn’t come out right. 
第二天，卢修斯在他的桌子上发现了一盒火柴，显然是德拉科留在那里的。当然，他以前也遇到过这些事情;在霍格沃茨的第一年，他的任务是把它们变成针，事实证明他相当擅长这件事。但他从来没有像麻瓜那样用它们来点火。这让他觉得很原始。他花了几个小时尝试使用它们，但偶尔取得了成功。他不止一次烫伤了手指，当他终于把火柴带到厨房再泡一壶茶时，还是没有流出来。

If the Ministry had been trying to make him more understanding of Muggles by taking his magic away they’d utterly failed. As far as he was concerned, a life in which something as basic as making tea was so unnecessarily laborious, never mind fraught with opportunities to turn oneself into an inferno, was a life that was hardly worth living. 
如果魔法部一直试图通过剥夺麻瓜的魔法来让他对麻瓜有更多的了解，那他们就彻底失败了。对他来说，泡茶这样基本的事情是如此不必要地费力，更不用说充满了把自己变成地狱的机会，这种生活几乎不值得过。

He’d barely been able to believe his ears when Granger had told him that she was voluntarily making her own tea when he’d found her rummaging around his kitchen like a Niffler. Surely just more proof that she didn’t deserve the magic she had.
当格兰杰告诉他她是自愿自己泡茶时，他几乎不敢相信自己的耳朵，而他发现她像个嗅嗅一样在他的厨房里翻找。当然，这只是更多的证据，证明她不配拥有她所拥有的魔法。

He matched his tea-drinking routine to Letty’s work routine now and if the elf had noticed she had the sense not to mention it. 
他现在把自己的喝茶习惯和莱蒂的工作习惯相匹配，如果那个小精灵注意到了，她就有意识不提这件事。

Casting a dark look at the embers, Lucius exhaled sharply through his nose. The firewhiskey would keep him warm. 
卢修斯阴暗地看着余烬，从鼻子里猛地呼出一口气。火威士忌会让他保持温暖。

Approaching Granger’s desk, Lucius set his glass on one of the few slivers of wood not covered by parchment or books. He was ready to sneer at her messiness when he saw evidence of a colour-coded system and rolled his eyes. Organised chaos made a lot more sense given her hair. 
走近格兰杰的书桌，卢修斯把酒杯放在为数不多的几块没有被羊皮纸或书本覆盖的木条上。当他看到颜色编码系统的证据时，他准备嘲笑她的凌乱，并翻了个白眼。考虑到她的头发，有组织的混乱更有意义。

Scanning the table, he saw a thick folder bearing his own name and a black sticker. Arching his eyebrow, he lifted the folder and dropped it with a heavy thud in front of himself before flicking it open disdainfully. With a sinking feeling, Lucius picked through her mounds of research. She was…thorough. 
扫视着桌子，他看到一个厚厚的文件夹，上面写着他自己的名字和一张黑色的贴纸。他扬起眉毛，举起文件夹，砰的一声丢在自己面前，然后轻蔑地打开了它。带着一种沉重的感觉，卢修斯在她的一堆研究中挑选。她是。。。彻底。

Extracts from Florian Malfoy’s 1693 anti-Statute of Secrecy tract; eye-witness writings in early modern English from various foreign ambassadors describing Lucius Malfoy I’s designs on Elizabeth the Muggle; long-buried copies of the Malfoy family tree which included the Squibs that they had attempted to hide. There were more of those than he’d realised, he thought as he lifted the parchment and squinted at the crossed-off names. 
摘自弗洛里安·马尔福 （Florian Malfoy） 1693 年的反保密法规小册子;多位外国大使用早期现代英语撰写的目击者著作，描述了卢修斯·马尔福一世对麻瓜伊丽莎白的设计;埋藏已久的马尔福家谱副本，其中包括他们试图隐藏的哑炮。那些人比他意识到的要多，他想着，一边掀起羊皮纸，眯着眼睛看着那些被划掉的名字。

Lucius pulled out another sheet, his attention drawn by the way it was stamped red with Copy Approved By Ministry Archive. Lucius scanned it and found it was a court record of an impassioned speech made by Sabine Malfoy in 1655. Slowly, he sank into Granger’s seat as he pored over the parchment. The speech, he discovered, was testimony in defence of her lady’s maid. Her Muggle lady’s maid. 
卢修斯拿出另一张纸，他的注意力被上面印着魔法部档案馆批准的红色印章所吸引。 卢修斯扫描了一下，发现这是萨宾娜·马尔福在 1655 年发表的一次慷慨激昂的演讲的法庭记录。他慢慢地坐在格兰杰的座位上，仔细研究着羊皮纸。他发现，这番话是为她女士的女仆辩护的证词。她的麻瓜女士的女仆。

Reading quickly, Malfoy surmised that the maid had been on trial in the Muggle court, accused of witchcraft. He'd always found it infuriating that the Ministry kept records of such Muggle barbarity but so often real witches and wizards had been dragged into proceedings. Apparently the maid had been accused by—Malfoy gripped the parchment more tightly, reading and re-reading the name as though it would somehow change if he willed it—Sabine’s husband, Magnus Malfoy. 
马尔福快速阅读，推测这个女仆是在麻瓜法庭上受审的，被指控使用巫术。他总是觉得很生气，魔法部保留了这种麻瓜野蛮行为的记录，但真正的女巫和巫师经常被拖入诉讼程序。显然，那个女仆被——马尔福把羊皮纸抓得更紧了，一遍又一遍地读着这个名字，仿佛如果他愿意，它就会以某种方式改变——萨宾的丈夫，马格努斯·马尔福。

Lucius swallowed and, finding his mouth very dry, reached out to take a drink of his firewhiskey. His ancestors involved in petty Muggle trials? Petty Muggle witch trials? He squinted at Hermione’s cramped footnotes that linked the case with other historical records and hurriedly dug through to find them. They were extracts from magical history books, Muggle records and Sabine Malfoy’s own diaries that she had apparently left to the Ministry archive for posterity. It was well seeing she had outlived her husband – that was not a particularly Malfoy thing to do.
卢修斯咽了口口水，发现自己口干舌燥，伸手喝了一口他的火威士忌。他的祖先卷入了麻瓜的小审判？小规模的麻瓜女巫审判？他眯着眼睛看着赫敏狭窄的脚注，这些脚注将这个案子与其他历史记录联系起来，然后匆匆忙忙地翻找着。它们是魔法历史书、麻瓜记录和萨宾娜·马尔福自己的日记的摘录，显然她已经留给了魔法部的档案，供后人使用。看到她比她的丈夫活得更久，这真是太好了——那可不是马尔福特别擅长做的事情。

In the end, the lady’s maid had been saved from death, not by Sabine’s defence, but by the discovery that she was pregnant. After that she disappeared from public records. Pushing the diary extracts Granger had obviously deemed the most pertinent closer to the weak glow of the fire, Lucius read. 
最后，这位女士的女仆免于死亡，不是因为萨宾娜的辩护，而是因为发现她怀孕了。在那之后，她从公共记录中消失了。卢修斯把格兰杰显然认为最相关的日记摘录推到离火光微弱的地方，读道。

“October 30  
“10 月 30 日

Took Annabel and the child food and warm clothing for the winter today. Magnus still unaware and will remain so. The child has his eyes. A kind version of them. Annabel told me strange things have been happening since the child’s fifth birthday. I fear the worst. 
今天带了 Annabel 和孩子们过冬的食物和保暖的衣服。马格努斯仍然不知道，而且会一直如此。孩子有他的眼睛。他们的善良版本。安娜贝尔告诉我，自从孩子五岁生日以来，奇怪的事情一直在发生。我担心最坏的情况。

January 5
一月 5

The child is undoubtedly magical, I have seen it with my own eyes. Annabel is frightened. Understandably so, after her own experience. The boy is all she has now. The witch hunts continue but my wards are keeping them safe. I have vowed to protect them. After what Magnus inflicted on her, it is the least I can do.  
这个孩子无疑是神奇的，我亲眼见过。安娜贝尔很害怕。根据她自己的经历，这是可以理解的。这个男孩就是她现在所拥有的一切。猎巫行动仍在继续，但我的守护者正在保护他们的安全。我发誓要保护他们。在马格努斯对她造成了伤害之后，这是我至少能做的了。

April 18
四月 18

The boy’s magic is showing itself with increasing frequency and I fear what will happen if he is not taught to control it. Forced to tell Magnus of his abilities. Misguided of me to think that such a revelation would prompt him to be more generous. Magnus does not know the meaning of the word.  
这个男孩的魔法越来越频繁地显现出来，我担心如果不教他如何控制它会发生什么。被迫告诉卡尔森他的能力。我误以为这样的启示会促使他更加慷慨。马格努斯不知道这个词的含义。

For the first time, it appears he is interested in the living consequences of his actions. He is taking the child and intends to name him Cyrus. When I protested, he reminded me that he was merely taking what I have thus far been unable to give him. Annabel devastated and I am responsible. We have ruined her. He has ruined me.” 
他似乎第一次对自己行为的活生生的后果感兴趣。他正在带走这个孩子，并打算给他取名赛勒斯。当我抗议时，他提醒我，他只是拿走了我迄今为止无法给他的东西。安娜贝尔悲痛欲绝，我有责任。我们毁了她。他毁了我。

Setting the parchment down, Lucius brushed his fingers over it thoughtfully. He thought he knew Sabine. Any time he'd been forced to stand outside his father’s office, waiting for his punishment for some kind of wrongdoing, Sabine had been the only portrait that had talked to him. She didn't comfort him, exactly – that was not her way – but she'd distracted him. His father had moved her but as soon as the manor became his, Lucius had put her right back where she belonged – in a prime position to irritate anyone who dared to bother him in his private study. 
放下羊皮纸，卢修斯若有所思地用手指抚摸着它。他以为自己认识萨宾。每当他被迫站在他父亲的办公室外，等待他因某种错误行为而受到惩罚时，Sabine 是唯一一个和他说话的肖像。她没有安慰他，确切地说——那不是她的方式——但她分散了他的注意力。他的父亲把她搬走了，但庄园一变成他的，卢修斯就把她放回了属于她的地方——处于一个有利的位置，可以激怒任何敢在他的私人书房里打扰他的人。

Lifting one of the family trees, Lucius surveyed the names, running his finger through history until he found it. Magnus Malfoy, Sabine Malfoy: married. One child: Cyrus. No mention of Annabel the Muggle. How long had this information sat in the Ministry’s archives uninvestigated? 
卢修斯拿起其中一棵家谱，仔细研究了这些名字，用手指在历史中摸索，直到找到它。马格努斯·马尔福，萨宾娜·马尔福：已婚。一个孩子：赛勒斯。没有提到麻瓜安娜贝尔。这些信息在国防部的档案中存放了多长时间没有被调查？

An odd queasiness rising up his throat, Lucius turned his attention to the rest of Hermione’s notes, not covering just his own family but the other witches and wizards she’d interviewed, as well as the records from the first and second wizarding wars. It was…sprawling. Beyond his expectations. Beyond what he had ever studied of his own world. Beyond absolutes. 
一阵奇怪的恶心从他的喉咙里升起，卢修斯把注意力转向了赫敏的其余笔记，不仅包括他自己的家人，还包括她采访过的其他女巫和巫师，以及第一次和第二次巫师战争的记录。那是......广阔。超出他的预期。超越了他对自己世界的研究。超越绝对。

Lucius gripped the edge of the table. Perhaps she was intelligent. Draco's never-ending complaints about her during their school days had made it clear to Lucius that she was teachable but this was different. By all accounts she knew more about the wizarding world, more about the dirty secrets of his family, than he did. Everyone knew there were darker aspects of the Malfoy family’s history; they’d never tried particularly hard to hide it because it gave them an intimidating edge. Granger had found the kinds of things that they did hide.  
卢修斯紧紧抓住桌子的边缘。也许她很聪明。德拉科在学生时代对她无休止的抱怨让卢修斯清楚地知道她是可以教的，但这次不同。从各方面来看，她比他更了解魔法世界，更了解他家庭的肮脏秘密。每个人都知道马尔福家族的历史有更黑暗的一面;他们从来没有特别努力地隐藏它，因为这给了他们一种令人生畏的优势。格兰杰发现了他们隐藏的那些东西。

Yet, somehow, he didn’t think he had to worry about her telling anyone. She just wanted him to know she knew. Now, so did he. Except he wasn’t entirely sure how to feel about it. Angry? Embarrassed? Both with a dash of something else? He thought he rather wanted to kill Granger but that instinct was tempered by a desire to find out what else she knew.
然而，不知何故，他认为他不必担心她会告诉任何人。她只是想让他知道她知道。现在，他也这样做了。只是他不完全确定该如何看待它。生气？尴尬？两者都有一点其他东西？他以为他宁愿想杀了格兰杰，但这种本能被想知道她还知道什么的愿望所缓和。

A newspaper clipping sandwiched between two booklets of parchment caught Malfoy’s eye and he pulled it out, taking great care not to rip it. 
夹在两本羊皮纸小册子之间的剪报引起了马尔福的注意，他把它掏了出来，小心翼翼地不把它撕掉。

Miss Aurelia Rosier weds Mr Abraxas Malfoy in the society wedding of the summer. 
奥雷莉亚·罗西尔小姐在夏季的社交婚礼上与阿布拉克萨斯·马尔福先生结婚。

A picture of his mother and father sat below the faded black text of the headline. They stood side by side, not touching. His mother, beautiful with her large eyes and soft features. She was much smaller than his father, who sneered haughtily into the camera. Neither of them looked happy, even then.
他父母的照片放在标题褪色的黑色文字下方。他们并排站着，没有接触。他的母亲，美丽的大眼睛和柔和的五官。她比他的父亲小得多，他的父亲对着镜头傲慢地嘲笑。即使在那时，他们俩看起来都不高兴。

Their marriage had been… convenient , a voice that sounded startlingly like Granger’s whispered in his head. Just who it had been convenient for, he wasn't sure. Certainly not him. Or his mother. Who was any of it for ?
他们的婚姻一直......方便，一个听起来像格兰杰的声音在他的脑海中低语。至于对谁来说很方便，他不确定。当然不是他。或者他的母亲。这是为了谁的？

Slamming the newspaper clipping down under his palm, Lucius bent his head and took several deep breaths before pulling the folder back towards himself to continue reading.
卢修斯将剪报砸在手心下，低下头，深呼吸了几次，然后将文件夹拉回自己身边继续阅读。

Hermione sipped her fourth Mopsus Martini and leaned into the corner of the booth in which she and Terry had been talking for several hours. They were both growing tipsy, Hermione probably far closer to drunk, but she’d been having just enough fun that she didn’t really want to be the one to call it a night. 
赫敏啜了她的第四杯莫普苏斯马提尼酒，靠在她和泰瑞已经聊了几个小时的卡座角落里。他们俩都喝得酩酊大醉，赫敏可能快喝醉了，但她已经玩得够开心了，她真的不想成为那个收工的人。

The bar he’d taken them to was decent enough. Below street level, it was fairly dark with low lighting that made it feel cosy and intimate. Not particularly summer-y, Hermione thought, but certainly suitable for a date. Being close to Gringotts, it seemed to be a popular haunt for goblins and curse breakers whose quiet, intense conversations actually made for the kind of atmosphere that Hermione preferred. 
他带他们去的酒吧还不错。在街道以下，它相当黑暗，光线昏暗，让人感觉舒适和亲密。不是特别的夏日气息，赫敏想，但肯定适合约会。靠近古灵阁，这里似乎是妖精和破诅者的热门出没之地，他们安静、激烈的对话实际上营造出赫敏喜欢的那种氛围。

Feeling like she had to let off some steam and seize an opportunity for some levity, Hermione had opted to try the cocktail menu which was, based on the bartender’s reaction when they’d ordered, largely ignored by the bar’s usual customer base. Hermione had stuck to the one drink while Terry had tried a few, allowing her to sip them so that they could debate the merits of each. His choice of a Lychee Love Potion had led them into a debate over love potions generally.  
赫敏觉得她必须发泄一下，抓住一个轻松的机会，她选择尝试鸡尾酒菜单，根据调酒师点菜时的反应，酒吧的普通客户群基本上忽略了这个菜单。赫敏坚持喝一杯，而泰瑞则试了几杯，让她啜饮一口，这样他们就可以争论每杯酒的优劣。他选择的荔枝爱情药水让他们陷入了一场关于爱情药水的普遍争论。

“I just think they’re wrong,” Hermione said, shaking her head more vehemently than she would have if she hadn’t been drinking, her curls bouncing against her flushed cheeks. “I overheard some girls plotting to slip Harry love potion in sixth year. I was furious.”
“我只是觉得他们错了，”赫敏说，比她没有喝酒时更猛烈地摇头，她的卷发在她通红的脸颊上弹跳。“我无意中听到一些女孩在六年级时密谋偷偷服用哈利爱情魔药。我很生气。

“Yeah, but the effects are only temporary and did anything bad happen to him?”
“是的，但影响只是暂时的，他身上发生了什么不好的事情吗？”

“Well, no,” Hermione said slowly, frowning and electing to gloss over what had happened to Ron in the aftermath for the sake of keeping things relatively light. “But he didn’t like that girl so why should she take it on herself to make him?”
“嗯，没有，”赫敏缓缓地说，皱着眉头，为了让事情相对轻松，她选择掩盖罗恩在事后发生的事情。“可是他不喜欢那个女孩，为什么她要自己动手来造就他呢？”

“It wouldn’t have lasted forever, Hermione,” Terry said, laughing. “He’d have snapped out of it and she’d have had the night she wanted. I reckon Harry wouldn’t be half as annoyed as you are on his behalf.”
“它不会永远持续下去的，赫敏，”特里笑着说。“他会突然从中走出来，她会度过她想要的夜晚。我估计哈利不会像你代表他那样生气。

Slowly setting her drink down, Hermione gave Terry a sidelong look. “I don’t think that makes it okay , Terry. Where was Harry’s say in the matter? That’s not consensual. Love potions are no better than the Imperius Curse, if you ask me and I bet you wouldn't defend that.”
慢慢地放下她的饮料，赫敏侧头看了特里一眼。“我不认为这很好，特里。哈利在这件事上有什么发言权呢？这不是双方同意的。爱情药水并不比帝王诅咒好，如果你问我的话，我敢打赌你不会为此辩护。

Terry raised his eyebrows at Hermione over the rim of his glass. “That’s a bit of an extreme equivalence, don’t you think?” he asked, setting his glass down. “Imperius is an Unforgivable and love potions are legal. Even the Weasleys sell them.” He gave her a lopsided grin. “Don’t tell me you’d lock up the Weasleys.”
泰瑞对着玻璃杯边缘的赫敏扬起眉毛。“这有点极端的等同，你不觉得吗？”“Imperius 是不可饶恕的，爱情药水是合法的。就连韦斯莱家也卖它们。他朝她露出一个不平衡的笑容。“别跟我说你会把韦斯莱家关起来。”

“I’ve made my feelings on that front quite clear to George and Ron,” Hermione said shortly. “Love potions being legal doesn’t make them right . Sometimes I wonder if their risks aren’t given due consideration purely because of their cultural association with lovelorn teenage girls but they’re far more sinister than that and I think it’s silly just to…”
“我已经把我在这方面的感受告诉了乔治和罗恩，”赫敏很快说。“爱情药水合法并不意味着它们是正确的。有时我在想，她们的风险是否仅仅因为她们与失恋少女的文化联系而没有得到应有的考虑，但她们远比这险恶得多，我认为仅仅这样做是愚蠢的......”

Hermione trailed off as she noticed Terry was leaning closer to her. At first she’d thought it was that the martinis were having a fishbowl effect on her vision but, no, he was definitely getting closer. His hand came to rest on her knee and Hermione twitched like a cornered animal, looking down at it and then back up at him. In that second, he’d come even closer. His eyelids were heavy over his deep brown eyes. They were warm. They were also getting larger with every second. If Hermione didn't close hers, they'd meet in the middle trying to keep him in sight. 
赫敏注意到泰瑞正靠得更近一些，她慢慢地走开了。起初她以为是马提尼酒对她的视力产生了鱼缸效应，但是，不，他肯定越来越近了。他的手放在她的膝盖上，赫敏像一只走投无路的动物一样抽搐着，低头看了看它，然后又抬头看了看他。在那一秒，他离得更近了。他的眼睑沉重地遮住了他深棕色的眼睛。他们很暖和。它们每秒钟都在变大。如果赫敏不闭上她的眼睛，他们就会在中间相遇，试图让他保持在视线范围内。

Making a split decision, Hermione closed her eyes and, breathing in as though she was about to go underwater, allowed him to close the distance between them.
赫敏做出了一个分歧的决定，闭上眼睛，吸气，仿佛她快要下水了，让他拉近他们之间的距离。

Terry’s lips were dry and rather chapped but the kiss itself was soft and gentle. Nice . Trying her best to push down her lingering irritation over their discussion about love potions, Hermione brought her hand up to rest it on Terry’s shoulder and he took that as a sign that he should deepen the kiss, pressing his lips more firmly against hers. 
特里的嘴唇干燥而干裂，但这个吻本身却是柔软而温柔的。 好。赫敏尽力压制住他们对爱情魔药讨论挥之不去的恼怒，她抬起手来放在特里的肩膀上，他认为这是他应该加深这个吻的信号，把他的嘴唇更牢牢地贴在她的嘴唇上。

Hermione opened her mouth slightly, inviting him to brush his tongue against hers and he wasted no time in doing so. He was forceful with his tongue and next to the dryness of his lips it felt almost too wet. As she gripped his shoulder more tightly, more out of uncertainty than any kind of pleasure, Hermione felt his hand sliding from her knee to her thigh, pushing up the hem of her dress. His fingers brushed against her inner thigh and Hermione jolted, breaking the kiss.
赫敏微微张开嘴，邀请他用舌头舔她的舌头，他没有浪费时间。他的舌头很用力，除了嘴唇的干燥之外，感觉几乎太湿了。当她更紧地抓住他的肩膀时，更多的是出于不确定，而不是任何一种快感，赫敏感觉到他的手从她的膝盖滑到她的大腿，推起了她的裙子下摆。他的手指抚摸着她的大腿内侧，赫敏颤抖着，打破了这个吻。

Catching her breath, Hermione saw Terry was looking at her intensely, his hand still on the middle of her thigh and his thumb stroking her skin. She blushed, her heart thumping and a not altogether pleasant roiling in her stomach. It was hard to remember the last time she’d been in a situation like this.
赫敏喘口气，看到泰瑞正紧紧地看着她，他的手仍然放在她的大腿中间，拇指抚摸着她的皮肤。她脸红了，心砰砰直跳，胃里翻腾着一股不愉快的感觉。很难记起她上一次遇到这样的情况是什么时候。

Unsure what to do with herself, Hermione turned and lifted her drink, prompting him to remove his hand. She felt the loss of the weight and heat but a rather large part of her was relieved by that; it hadn’t felt entirely right. Maybe she’d just forgotten what that kind of intimacy was supposed to feel like.
赫敏不知道该怎么自处，转身举起她的饮料，促使他移开他的手。她感觉到体重和热量的减轻，但她的大部分身体都因此而得到了缓解;感觉并不完全正确。也许她只是忘记了那种亲密应该是什么感觉。

“Anyway,” she said, her voice wavering and flustered. “I just think, you know, that we should really reassess love potions. Certainly some legislation wouldn’t go amiss.” 
“总之，”她说，她的声音颤抖而慌乱。“我只是觉得，你知道的，我们真的应该重新评估爱情药水。当然，有些立法不会出错。

“I was kind of hoping we were done with that topic of conversation,” Terry said with a lopsided smile.
“我有点希望我们已经结束了这个话题，”特里带着不平衡的笑容说。

“Only because you know I'm right and it annoys you,” Hermione said in what she thought was a teasing tone. But Terry frowned and drew back from her to pick up his own drink. 
“只是因为你知道我是对的，这让你很烦恼，”赫敏用她认为是戏谑的语气说。但特里皱着眉头，从她身边抽身，拿起了自己的饮料。

“No I don't.” His voice was cold and nowhere near as flirtatious. “You think you're right. I think you're being more than a bit self-righteous about it, to be honest. It all feels pretty rich coming from the girl that jinxed that DA parchment without telling anyone and left Marietta with those scars. Where was her choice in that matter?”
“不，我没有。”他的声音很冷酷，一点也不轻浮。“你觉得你是对的。老实说，我认为你对此有点自以为是。这一切都感觉非常丰富，来自那个女孩，她在没有告诉任何人的情况下把那张 DA 羊皮纸弄脏了，给 Marietta 留下了那些伤疤。在那件事上，她的选择在哪里？

A bucket of ice cold water would have shocked Hermione less. Immediately, she tugged down the hem of her dress and gripped the material. Terry’s eyes flicked down, drawn by her jerky movement, and he made a soft noise in his throat that sounded close to a scoff as he shifted back even further from her.  
一桶冰冷的水对赫敏的震惊要小一些。她立刻拉下裙子的下摆，紧紧抓住了那块布料。Terry的眼睛往下眨了眨，被她生涩的动作吸引着，他在喉咙里发出了一声轻柔的声音，听起来像是嘲笑，同时他离她更远了。

“Now who's annoyed because they know someone's right?” he asked, eyebrows raised. 
“现在谁会因为他们知道某人是对的而生气呢？”

Heart beating quickly for an entirely different reason, face growing warm with anger, Hermione pushed her drink away and cleared her throat. “You know, I think I'd like to call it a night. I'm rather tired.”
心脏因为完全不同的原因而跳动得很快，脸上因愤怒而变得温暖，赫敏把饮料推开，清了清嗓子。“你知道的，我想我想结束这个夜晚。我挺累的。

Rather than take her hint that she'd like him to move and let her out of their booth, Terry took another drink, shaking his head. “Come on, Hermione. Don't be like that! We were having a nice time.”
特里没有听从她的暗示，她希望他搬走，让她离开他们的隔间，而是又喝了一杯，摇了摇头。“来吧，赫敏。不要那样！我们玩得很开心。

“We were,” Hermione said stiffly. “Please let me out.”
“我们是，”赫敏僵硬地说。“请放我出去。”

Looking less than impressed, Terry slid out of the booth, allowing Hermione to follow him, though he didn’t give her a huge amount of room and Hermione instinctively cringed as she passed his tall, solid body. 
泰瑞看起来不太为所动，溜出了包厢，让赫敏跟在他后面，尽管他没有给她很大的空间，赫敏在经过他高大结实的身体时本能地畏缩了一下。

“Thank you,” she said, feeling suddenly incredibly small and deflated as she stood in front of him. “I'll...I'll see you.” 
“谢谢你，”她说，当她站在他面前时，突然感到难以置信的渺小和泄气。“我会......我再见。

“Yeah, fine,” Terry said sullenly, backing into his seat and picking up his drink again. “See you, Hermione.” 
“是的，好吧，”Terry闷闷不乐地说，回到座位上，再次拿起他的饮料。“再见，赫敏。”

Feeling sick, Hermione managed a half nod before lifting her satchel from under the table. Clutching it close to her stomach, she climbed the stairs out of the bar and burst out onto Diagon Alley, breathing in the fresh evening air with relief. The quiet cobbled street was cast in a dim glow, a faint red on the horizon signalling that the sun had mere minutes before it disappeared for the night. 
赫敏感到不舒服，半点头，然后从桌子底下拿起了她的书包。她紧紧地攥着肚子，爬上酒吧的楼梯，冲到对角巷，松了一口气，呼吸着傍晚的新鲜空气。寂静的鹅卵石铺成的街道投下了昏暗的光芒，地平线上泛着淡淡的红色，预示着太阳离黑夜消失只有几分钟了。

Hermione knew she was still drunk when she arrived home but she already had a good sense of how bad her hangover was going to be. The martinis had left her tongue feeling rough and furry and a headache was starting to thrum threateningly in the front of her head. Kicking her shoes off with an angry grunt at her front door, she stumbled and leaned on the wall for support, taking a deep breath.
赫敏知道她回到家时还醉着，但她已经很清楚她的宿醉会有多严重。马提尼酒让她的舌头感觉粗糙和毛茸茸的，头疼开始在她的头前发出威胁性的嗡嗡声。她在前门愤怒地咕哝着踢掉鞋子，跌跌撞撞地靠在墙上，深吸了一口气。

Fucking Terry Boot. She’d wanted it to be nice. It was supposed to be nice. She'd ruined it. No, he'd ruined it. Why would he defend love potions like that? Why would he think any person would want to hear that? But why couldn't she just stop herself? Ron had always told her off for that; she just couldn’t back down. Nor bloody should I, she thought furiously, flattening her hand against the wall.
他妈的特里靴。她希望它很好。它本来应该是好的。她毁了它。不，他毁了它。他为什么要那样为爱情药水辩护呢？为什么他认为有人会想听呢？但为什么她不能阻止自己呢？罗恩总是为此责备她;她就是不能退缩。 我也不应该流血，她愤怒地想着，把手压在墙上。

Hiccuping, Hermione allowed her satchel to slide from her shoulder onto the hallway floor with a thump and leaned her head against the cold wall, rolling her over-heated forehead back and forth. It had been going fairly well up to that point. Sure, Terry had tended towards condescension at times but she’d been trying to convince herself she was willing to look past it for a night, at least; sex didn’t need to involve talking. A part of her had just wanted to see if she was still able to feel…like that . Desirous, desirable. 
赫敏打了个嗝，让她的书包砰的一声从肩膀滑到走廊的地板上，然后把头靠在冰冷的墙上，来回滚动她过热的额头。到那时为止，一切都相当顺利。当然，Terry有时倾向于居高临下，但她一直在试图说服自己，至少在一夜之间，她愿意忽略它;性不需要涉及交谈。她的一部分只是想看看她是否还能感觉到......诸如此类。渴望的，令人向往的。

It’d been a long time since she’d been with anyone and Hermione had convinced herself that she didn’t need it or even want it because that was so much easier. But, having given herself permission to at least consider sex for the first time in a long time, she found she was disappointed that it hadn’t happened. Though she was increasingly disgusted by the thought that it might have been with Terry.
她已经很久没有和任何人在一起了，赫敏说服自己，她不需要它，甚至不想要它，因为那要容易得多。但是，在允许自己至少在很长一段时间内第一次考虑性爱后，她发现她对它没有发生感到失望。尽管她越来越厌恶这种想法可能是和特里在一起的。

Eyes closed, she brought her hand up to brush against her thigh the way Terry’s had, her breathing becoming more shallow. Although she’d struggled to enjoy Terry’s hand, she was willing to give her own a chance. 
她闭上眼睛，抬起手来，像Terry一样抚摸着她的大腿，她的呼吸变得更加浅促。虽然她一直努力享受特里的手，但她愿意给自己一个机会。

Trailing her right hand further up her leg, lifting her dress as she did so, Hermione stroked her skin in gentle circles, trying to imagine that it was someone else. Someone she could actually be attracted to. She pressed her left forearm to the wall beside her head for balance and noticed goosebumps raised on it. When her fingers reached her knickers, brushing against her core through the thin cotton, she whimpered into the wall. Then Terry's irritated, sullen face came into her mind’s eye and all ardour died. Dropping her hand, her dress falling back into place, Hermione groaned with frustration. Ginny had been absolutely wrong. 
赫敏的右手进一步沿着她的腿向上移动，一边掀起她的裙子，一边轻轻地抚摸着她的皮肤，试图想象那是另一个人。她实际上可能会被吸引的人。她将左前臂压在头旁边的墙上以保持平衡，并注意到上面起了鸡皮疙瘩。当她的手指触及她的内裤，隔着薄薄的棉花擦过她的核心时，她呜咽着撞在墙上。然后，特里恼怒、闷闷不乐的脸出现在她的脑海中，所有的热情都消失了。放下手，裙子落回原位，赫敏沮丧地呻吟着。金妮完全错了。

Pushing herself off the wall, Hermione stumbled into her living room and made a beeline for her sofa. She was debating whether or not falling asleep face down on it would be a good idea when she saw an owl peering in through her window. Reaching out to turn on her light, she squinted at the window and realised with a drop in her stomach that it was Lucius Malfoy’s owl. 
赫敏把自己从墙上推开，跌跌撞撞地走进了她的客厅，径直走向她的沙发。她正在争论脸朝下睡着是否是个好主意，这时她看到一只猫头鹰从她的窗户往里窥视。她伸手打开灯，眯着眼睛看向窗户，肚子里一滴落下来，意识到那是卢修斯·马尔福的猫头鹰。

“Oh good,” she grumbled aloud. “Someone to make me feel worse. Fantastic."
“哦，太好了，”她大声抱怨道。“有人让我感觉更糟。太棒了。

Sighing irritably, Hermione approached the window and allowed the owl to fly into the room. Just as before, it made for her coffee table, where it proceeded to stand still, blinking at her with judgemental eyes. 
赫敏烦躁地叹了口气，走近窗户，让猫头鹰飞进了房间。就像以前一样，它来到了她的咖啡桌上，它继续停在那里，用评判的眼神向她眨眼。

“What?” she muttered. “I don't think you're a stranger to the effects of heavy drinking somehow.” 
“什么？”“我不认为你对酗酒的影响不知何故陌生。”

The owl ruffled its feathers haughtily but allowed Hermione to take the letter it was carrying with her clumsy fingers. Before she could open the letter, the owl took off. Clearly not expecting a response then, she thought. This is obviously going to be a fuck off forever . Repressing another hiccup so that her shoulders jumped comically, Hermione opened the letter and squinted blearily at the short note written in Lucius Malfoy’s neat, slanting hand.
猫头鹰傲慢地撅动着它的羽毛，但还是让赫敏用她笨拙的手指接过它手里的信。在她打开信之前，猫头鹰就飞走了。 显然她没想到会有回应，她想。 这显然会永远他妈的。赫敏压抑着又一次打嗝，让她的肩膀滑稽地跳了起来，她打开了信，眯着眼睛看着卢修斯·马尔福那只干净利落、斜斜的手写的短字条。

“I read your notes .”
“我读了你的笔记。”

That was it. Blinking, Hermione turned over the parchment to look at its back and found it blank so she turned it back over and read it again. 
就是这样。赫敏眨了眨眼，把羊皮纸翻过来看了看它的背面，发现它是空白的，于是她把它翻过来，又读了一遍。

Then again. 
另一方面。

Just one more time to be sure. 
再来一次。

A small, confused smile tugged at her lips. Not a fuck off? Not a fuck off forever, at any rate.
她的嘴唇上扯出一丝困惑的微笑。没他妈的吗？无论如何，不会永远他妈的。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Having reached my early-to-mid-twenties I'm afraid I've experienced at least one (1) kiss like Hermione and Terry's and I'm sorry I inflicted such a thing on you, wonderful readers. So unsexy. I promise I will make up for it down the line with mega sexiness. She is going to get so many good kisses, I swear.
我已经到了二十出头到二十多岁的时候，恐怕我至少经历过一 （1） 次像赫敏和特里那样的吻，我很抱歉我对你们造成了这样的事情，很棒的读者。太不性感了。我保证我会用超级性感来弥补它。我发誓，她会得到很多美好的吻。

Chapter 15
第十五章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione works through her hangover and Lucius Malfoy stops by.
赫敏正在努力克服宿醉，卢修斯·马尔福过来了。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾June 3rd
6月3日

It took blowing a stray curl from her face for the fifth time before Hermione relented and forced her hair up into a messy ponytail. She was underlining passages of interest in her interview with Pomona Sprout and getting over the last remnants of her hangover. 
她脸上五次吹掉了一缕零散的卷发，赫敏才心软了，把头发扎成一个凌乱的马尾辫。她在接受 Pomona Sprout 采访时强调了感兴趣的段落，并克服了宿醉的最后残余。

The hangover hadn’t been pleasant and the headache and queasiness had only exacerbated her feelings of regret, annoyance and embarrassment in the light of day following her date with Terry. Martinis had been added to her list of drinks that she would never consume again. Terry to her list of people to actively avoid.
宿醉并不愉快，头痛和恶心只会加剧她与特里约会后的遗憾、烦恼和尴尬的感觉。马提尼酒已被添加到她再也不会喝的饮料清单中。特里 （Terry） 到她要积极避免的人名单。

Once she’d dragged herself out of bed and forced down a dry slice of toast, she’d decided that the best course of action would be not to wallow, but to throw herself back into work. Malfoy’s note made it feel like a safe assumption that she was still welcome at the manor—or at least that he didn’t want her dead—so she’d packed up her bag and Floo’d to the library. 
当她从床上爬起来，强行吃下一片干吐司后，她决定最好的办法是不要沉溺，而是让自己重新投入工作。马尔福的纸条让人感觉像是一个安全的假设，她在庄园里仍然受到欢迎——或者至少他不想让她死——所以她收拾好包，飞路去了图书馆。

Setting down her quill, she leaned back in her chair and dragged her hands over her forehead and hair, pulling her hair to the sides to tighten the ponytail. Work had been a good distraction but she was drastically in need of some tea. Before she could even slide out of her seat and contemplate her next steps to make that happen, a crack rent the air, causing Hermione to yelp and clutch the edge of the seat beneath her. 
她放下羽毛笔，靠在椅子上，用手捂住额头和头发，把头发拉到两侧，把马尾辫拉紧。工作本来可以很好地分散她的注意力，但她非常需要喝点茶。在她甚至能够从座位上滑出并考虑下一步如何实现这一目标之前，空气中就响起了裂缝，赫敏大喊一声，紧紧抓住了她下面的座位边缘。

Letty had appeared in front of her bearing a tray of tea and sandwiches again. This time the tray was smaller and likely for one rather than two people, so Letty didn’t have quite as much trouble with it. Rising from her seat anyway, Hermione lifted the tray from the air and set it gently over a couple of her folders where it would be stable. After the disruption to Malfoy’s desk, she was less keen on seeing it happen to her own.
莱蒂又端着一盘茶和三明治出现在她面前。这次的托盘更小，可能适合一个人而不是两个人，所以 Letty 没有遇到太多麻烦。赫敏还是从座位上站起来，从空中举起托盘，轻轻地放在她的几个文件夹上，这样它就可以稳定了。在马尔福的办公桌被打乱之后，她就不那么热衷于看到这种事情发生在她自己身上了。

“Hello, Letty,” Hermione said kindly. “How did you know I was desperately in need of some tea, hm?”
“你好，莱蒂，”赫敏和蔼地说。“你怎么知道我急需一些茶，嗯？”

Letty curtseyed and beamed up at Hermione. “Letty was sent by the Master. He said miss had forgotten to eat again.”
莱蒂屈膝行礼，朝赫敏露出笑容。“莱蒂是主人派来的。他说小姐又忘了吃饭了。

“Draco said that…?”
“德拉科说的......？”

Letty shook her head, her ears waggling. “The other Master.”
莱蒂摇摇头，耳朵晃动。“另一位主人。”

“I see,” Hermione said quietly, looking down at the tray but not really seeing it. 
“我明白了，”赫敏轻声说，低头看着托盘，但并没有真正看到它。

“Will Hermione Granger be needing anything else from Letty?”
“赫敏·格兰杰还需要莱蒂什么吗？”

“No,” Hermione dragged her eyes from the tray to smile absently at the elf and shake her head. “Thank you, Letty, this is perfect.”
“不，”赫敏把眼睛从托盘上拖出来，心不在焉地对精灵微笑，然后摇摇头。“谢谢你，莱蒂，这太完美了。”

Without another word, Letty vanished and Hermione descended slowly into her chair, lifting a sandwich as she went. Biting into it—ham this time—she stared at the tray thoughtfully and chewed. Lucius Malfoy had sent his house elf with tea and sandwiches for her. Just for her. Was it kindness? Hermione’s face screwed up as she considered that possibility. Not likely. 
莱蒂一言不发地消失了，赫敏慢慢地坐到椅子上，一边走一边举起一个三明治。她咬了一口——这次是火腿——若有所思地盯着托盘，咀嚼着。卢修斯·马尔福给他的家养小精灵送来了茶和三明治给她。只为她。是善意吗？赫敏的脸在考虑这种可能性时变得一团糟。不太可能。

He said Miss Granger had forgotten to eat again . How did he know ? Presumably Astoria had informed him of her arrival. Maybe he just asked Astoria to do that as a rule after their unexpected confrontation in the kitchen. It was much more likely that he’d sent Letty up in anticipation of her wandering again. 
他说格兰杰小姐又忘了吃饭了。他怎么知道的？大概是阿斯托利亚告诉了他她的到来。也许他只是在他们在厨房里意外对峙后要求 Astoria 这样做。更有可能的是，他把莱蒂送上去，期待着她再次流浪。

Frowning, Hermione lifted another sandwich, feeling like a hamster that was being fed in its cage. Some crumbs fell onto her skirt and she automatically brushed them onto the floor. Tensing on realising what she’d done, Hermione drew her wand and vanished evidence of her mess with a nervous glance at the door. 
赫敏皱着眉头，举起了另一个三明治，感觉就像一只在笼子里被喂食的仓鼠。一些面包屑掉在她的裙子上，她自动地把它们刷到地板上。赫敏意识到自己做了什么，紧张地抽出魔杖，紧张地看了一眼门口，消失了她混乱的证据。

She’d just reached for the tea and was pouring some into her cup when a voice spoke from across the room. 
她刚伸手去拿茶，正往杯子里倒了一些，这时一个声音从房间的另一头传来。

“I see Letty has done as I asked.”
“我看莱蒂已经按照我的要求做了。”

Hermione started at the unexpected noise, slopping some tea over the edge of her cup and onto the tray. Looking up, she saw Lucius Malfoy standing in the doorway, watching her with raised eyebrows. 
赫敏被这意想不到的声音吓了一跳，把一些茶从杯子的边缘倒到托盘上。她抬起头，看到卢修斯·马尔福站在门口，扬起眉毛看着她。

“You’re very jumpy for a Gryffindor, aren’t you?” he drawled.
“你对格兰芬多来说很跳动，不是吗？”

“You did that on purpose.” Hermione scowled, lifting her wand to clean up the mess. 
“你是故意这样做的。”赫敏皱起眉头，举起魔杖收拾烂摊子。

“Yes, I suppose it does make sense that I would have tea brought to you by my house elf just so that I could make you spill it later.”
“是的，我想我让我的家养小精灵给你端茶确实是有道理的，这样我以后就可以让你把茶洒出来。”

“I don’t know how Slytherin minds come up with their diabolical plans.”
“我不知道斯莱特林是怎么想出他们邪恶的计划。”

“That is not diabolical, Miss Granger, it is convoluted.” He gave her a stern look. “And you are welcome for the food.”
“那不是恶魔，格兰杰小姐，这很复杂。”他严厉地看了她一眼。“不客气。”

“Thank you,” Hermione said quickly, a blush suffusing her cheeks. “I did miss lunch again, as it happens. How did you know?”
“谢谢你，”赫敏很快地说，脸颊上泛起了红晕。“碰巧我又错过了午餐。你怎么知道的？

"I merely assumed," he said, folding his hands behind his back. "Astoria mentioned your arrival at breakfast and it has been some time since then."
“我只是假设，”他说，双手交叉在背后。“阿斯托利亚在早餐时提到你的到来，从那时起已经有一段时间了。”

An awkward silence fell. Hermione wasn’t sure whether he would mention the note he had sent her or if she should do it. Surely if he wanted to talk about it he would; Lucius Malfoy wasn’t exactly the shy type. 
尴尬的沉默降临。赫敏不确定他是否应该提到他寄给她的那张纸条，或者她是否应该这样做。如果他想谈论这件事，他肯定会的;卢修斯·马尔福并不是那种害羞的类型。

“Aren’t you cold?” he asked, nodding his head at her with a frown. 
“你不冷吗？” 他问道，皱着眉头朝她点头。

Hermione looked down at her bare legs under the desk and pressed her knees together tightly, her face growing warm. It felt like a roundabout criticism of the way she dressed—it probably was—but her skirt was actually a perfectly acceptable length and just because he was quasi-Victorian with his suits and cravats didn’t mean she had to be. 
赫敏低头看着桌子下她光秃秃的双腿，双膝紧紧地靠在一起，脸上暖和起来。这感觉像是对她穿着方式的迂回批评——可能是这样——但她的裙子实际上是完全可以接受的长度，仅仅因为他穿着西装和领结是准维多利亚时代的人，并不意味着她必须如此。

“Why would I be?” she asked, sitting up straighter and doing a bad job at dampening her defensiveness.
“我为什么会这样？” 她问道，坐直了身子，在抑制她的防御性方面做得很糟糕。

“The temperature control charms in this room are set quite cold. It’s for the good of the books but not for the people reading them.”
“这个房间里的温度控制咒设置得很冷。这是为了书本的利益，而不是为了阅读它们的人。

“Oh.” Some of the tension seeped out of Hermione and her shoulders dropped as she gave him an abashed grin. “No, I’m okay. I used an imperturbable charm to contain a second temperature control charm under the desk. It keeps me warm without affecting the rest of the room.”
“哦。”赫敏身上渗出了一些紧张感，她的肩膀垂了下来，羞愧地对他咧嘴一笑。“不，我没事。我用了一个不动声色的咒语，在桌子下面装了第二个温度控制咒。它让我保持温暖，但不影响房间的其他部分。

Malfoy stared at her, his jaw clenched. It was hard to tell if he was annoyed or not. Hermione was about to offer to lift the spell when he finally murmured, “clever”, before looking off to the side. Mildly astonished, Hermione’s instinctive reaction was to smile at the compliment, regardless of how unwillingly given it was, but he didn’t smile back. If anything he appeared pained. 
马尔福盯着她，咬紧了下巴。很难说他是否生气。赫敏正要提议解除咒语，这时他终于喃喃自语道，“聪明”，然后看向一边。赫敏略显惊讶，他的本能反应是对这句赞美微笑，不管它有多么不情愿，但他没有回应。如果有的话，他看起来很痛苦。

“Would you like to join me?” Hermione asked, gesturing to the tea. “Letty left two cups.”
“你愿意和我一起吗？”赫敏问道，指着茶。“莱蒂留下了两个杯子。”

Malfoy blinked, his brows drawing together in a frown. “She did not leave two chairs, Miss Granger. I merely came to ensure she did as I asked.”
马尔福眨了眨眼，眉头紧锁。“她没有留下两把椅子，格兰杰小姐。我只是来确保她按照我的要求去做。

Before Malfoy could turn, Hermione picked up her wand and conjured a comfortable chair that was much like the one on which she was already sitting. Shifting her own chair over, she pulled the other one in towards the desk and turned to give Malfoy an expectant look. 
在马尔福转身之前，赫敏拿起她的魔杖，变出了一把舒适的椅子，这把椅子很像她已经坐过的那把椅子。她把自己的椅子挪过来，把另一把椅子拉到桌子上，转身期待地看了马尔福一眼。

Though it was a strange notion for her to contend with, she wanted him to join her. The note he sent her had piqued her curiosity. Just what had he thought about what he’d read?
虽然这对她来说是一个奇怪的想法，但她希望他能加入她。他寄给她的纸条激起了她的好奇心。他对自己读到的东西有什么看法？

Sighing through his nose, his hands dropping to his sides, he approached the desk and lowered himself regally into the chair. With a narrow-eyed look at her he slid one of his legs experimentally under the desk. On feeling the heat there, his eyes widened fractionally and Hermione grinned. 
他从鼻子里叹了口气，双手垂到身体两侧，走近桌子，庄重地坐在椅子上。他眯着眼睛看着她，实验性地将一条腿滑到桌子下面。感觉到那里的热度，他微微睁大了眼睛，赫敏咧嘴一笑。

“See? It works!”
“看到了吗？它有效！

He sighed and there was something almost wistful in it. “I suppose there is some relief in knowing that you do actually use magic.”
他叹了口气，里面有某种近乎渴望的东西。“我想知道你真的会使用魔法会让人松一口气。”

“And what’s that supposed to mean?” Hermione asked, her tone sharpening in line with her expression. 
“那应该是什么意思？”赫敏问道，她的语气随着她的表情而变得尖锐。

“It means that I think a witch who would dig through my kitchen cupboards in order to make tea the Muggle way may not fully appreciate what she has.”
“这意味着，我认为一个女巫会翻遍我的厨房橱柜，以便用麻瓜的方式泡茶，她可能并不完全欣赏她所拥有的。”

Hermione frowned, bringing the spare cup down to pour him some tea. “Just because I don’t whip my wand out for everything doesn’t mean I don’t appreciate my magic, Mr Malfoy,” she said, shooting him an irate glance. “I consider it a gift.”
赫敏皱起眉头，把备用的杯子拿下来给他倒了点茶。“仅仅因为我不为一切而动用魔杖，并不意味着我不欣赏我的魔法，马尔福先生，”她说，愤怒地瞥了他一眼。“我认为这是一份礼物。”

“Better than taking it as a given, I suppose,” he murmured, his expression distant as he took the tea from her with a vague nod of thanks. "Rather easy to do."
“我想，总比把它当作理所当然要好，”他喃喃自语，一边从她手中接过茶，含糊地点头表示感谢。“挺容易做到的。”

“Do you miss your magic then?”
“那你怀念你的魔法吗？”

Lucius’ eyes flicked upwards in a fleeting, irritated roll. “I see you are moving through the ‘i’s with your questions.” When Hermione merely raised her eyebrows with polite inquisitiveness over the rim of her teacup, he said, “First ‘invasive’, now ‘inane’. Perhaps one day you might accidentally veer into ‘interesting’ or ‘intelligent’, though I doubt it.”
卢修斯的眼睛向上眨了眨，转瞬即逝，恼怒地转动了一下。“我看到你正在用你的问题通过'我'。”当赫敏只是礼貌地好奇地抬起眉毛看着她的茶杯边缘时，他说，“先是'侵入性的'，现在是'无聊的'。也许有一天你可能会不小心转向'有趣'或'聪明'，尽管我对此表示怀疑。

Hermione choked on her tea, her nose wrinkling as the hot liquid splashed the tip of it. Lowering the cup, she fixed him with a glare. “There’s no need to be so rude .”
赫敏被茶呛住了，热液体溅到茶尖时，她的鼻子皱了起来。她放下杯子，瞪着他。“没必要这么粗鲁。”

“Well, of course I miss my magic. It’s barely a question worth asking.”
“嗯，我当然想念我的魔法。这几乎不是一个值得问的问题。

Hermione flushed a deep pink, clutching her teacup in her lap tightly. Perhaps he was right: it had been a silly question to ask, especially of him. She was also right, though: there hadn’t been any need for him to be so rude.
赫敏脸红了，紧紧地把茶杯攥在腿上。也许他是对的：这个问题一直很愚蠢，尤其是对他来说。不过，她也是对的：他没有必要这么粗鲁。

“Alright then,” Hermione said, proud of the calm control she managed to exercise over her tone. “What do you miss about it?”
“好吧，”赫敏说，为她设法控制自己的语气而感到自豪。“你很想念它吗？”

He blinked at her, perhaps not having anticipated the persistent immediacy of the shift in her line of questioning. They were, after all, not having a recorded conversation. Then he went quiet, frowning thoughtfully at her before allowing his gaze to be drawn down into the full cup of tea that he held in his lap. 
他朝她眨了眨眼，也许没有预料到她提问方式的持续转变会如此迅速。毕竟，他们没有录音谈话。然后他安静了下来，若有所思地皱着眉头看着她，然后让他的目光落在他腿上的满杯茶上。

Hermione was considering politely moving the conversation on, assuming he wasn’t going to answer, when he finally replied. “My magic is an intrinsic part of myself. I miss feeling whole.” 
赫敏正在考虑礼貌地转移话题，以为他不会回答，这时他终于回答了。“我的魔力是我自己内在的一部分。我想念完整的感觉。

His eyes flicked up to hers and Hermione swallowed, her tongue feeling oddly thick when she saw the truth of what he was saying written on his face. 
他的眼睛眨向她，赫敏咽了口口水，当她看到他脸上写着的话的真实性时，她的舌头感觉奇怪地厚。

“The Magic Dampener is a straitjacket, Miss Granger. A bridle.” He cleared his throat and straightened his waistcoat using his free hand. “A humiliation.”
“魔法阻尼器是一件束缚衣，格兰杰小姐。缰绳。他清了清嗓子，用空出来的手拉直了背心。“一种羞辱。”

Hermione felt locked in place by his gaze. She knew Lucius Malfoy was a proud man – if she hadn’t already witnessed it for herself, he had told her as much. He was proud in himself; in his heritage; in his magic. Pride was simply a facet of human nature, wasn’t it? They'd agreed on that. Funny, then, that Hermione thought he was displaying more humanity in this admission that his pride was injured than she had ever seen from him. 
赫敏感觉被他的目光锁定在原地。她知道卢修斯·马尔福是个骄傲的人——如果她没有亲眼目睹的话，他已经告诉了她同样的事情。他为自己感到自豪;在他的遗产中;在他的魔法中。骄傲只是人性的一个方面，不是吗？他们已经同意了这一点。那么，有趣的是，赫敏认为他承认自己的自尊心受到了伤害，比她从他身上看到的还要多。

"It's not especially nice when other people decide to make your magic – or your right to use it – their business, is it?" she asked with a pointed look.
“当其他人决定把你的魔法——或者你使用它的权利——当作他们的事时，这不是特别好的事情，不是吗？”

Lucius arched an eyebrow and Hermione thought she saw the corner of his lips twitch. "I cannot pretend it doesn't rankle."
卢修斯扬起眉毛，赫敏觉得她看到他的嘴角抽搐了一下。“我不能假装它不吵。”

“I appreciate your honesty,” she said.
“我很欣赏你的诚实，”她说。

“I’ve never been anything but honest with you, Miss Granger,” he said, his tone clipped. “Rightfully reticent on occasion, yes, but I don’t believe I've ever intentionally lied.”
“我对你从来都不是诚实的，格兰杰小姐，”他说，语气变得尖锐起来。“有时理所当然地保持沉默，是的，但我不相信我曾经故意撒谎。”

“I imagine that’s been a real challenge for you.” 
“我想这对你来说是一个真正的挑战。”

What was it about Lucius Malfoy that made it so hard for her to contain the mean-spirited jabs that so often passed through her mind?
卢修斯·马尔福究竟是什么让她如此难以控制那些经常在她脑海中闪过的卑鄙的刺痛呢？

Despite her rudeness, this time she definitely did see a hint of a smile from him, though it was fleeting. “Not as much as you might think.” On seeing Hermione’s doubtful expression, he added, “The best lies tend to contain at least a grain of truth, Miss Granger. If one can even be certain of what the ‘truth’ actually is.”
尽管她很粗鲁，但这一次她确实从他身上看到了一丝微笑，尽管那是转瞬即逝的。“没有你想象的那么多。”看到赫敏怀疑的表情，他又补充道，“最好的谎言往往至少包含一丝真相，格兰杰小姐。如果一个人甚至可以确定'真相'到底是什么。

Hermione’s warm brown eyes flicked between the grey coldness of his. “With that in mind.” She set her cup down on the table and, encouraged by his openness, decided to throw caution to the wind. “You read my notes.” 
赫敏温暖的棕色眼睛在他灰色的冰冷之间闪烁。“考虑到这一点。”她把杯子放在桌子上，受到他坦诚的鼓励，决定把谨慎抛诸脑后。“你读我的笔记。”

They were sitting fairly close. Close enough that Hermione could see Malfoy tense in response to her words. It was such a small movement and it struck her as something she would never have noticed if they’d been sitting their usual distance from one another. He took some time drinking his tea before lowering his own cup and looking at her. “You are a thorough researcher.”
他们坐得相当近。近到赫敏能看到马尔福对她的话的回应而紧张。这是一个如此小的动作，她觉得如果他们平时坐在彼此之间的距离，她永远不会注意到。他喝了一会儿茶，然后放下自己的杯子，看着她。“你是一个彻底的研究者。”

“That somewhat avoidant answer makes me think you don’t want to talk about any of it.”
“那个有点回避的回答让我觉得你不想谈论任何事情。”

“I would prefer not to for now,” Malfoy said with a nod and Hermione tried to hide her frustration and disappointment. He looked off to the side and then back at her. “Though, I wonder if I might read further through some of your other folders.”
“我现在宁愿不要，”马尔福点点头说，赫敏试图掩饰她的沮丧和失望。他看向一边，然后又看向她。“不过，我想知道我是否可以进一步阅读你的其他文件夹。”

Hermione hesitated and glanced down at the other piles of work on the desk. Everyone had given her permission for full publication so she supposed it wasn’t really an invasion of privacy to let Malfoy have a look before any publishers. That didn’t make it any less curious. “Why?”
赫敏犹豫了一下，低头看了一眼桌上的其他一堆作业。每个人都允许她完整地出版，所以她认为让马尔福在任何出版商之前看一看并不是真的侵犯隐私。这并没有减少它的好奇心。“为什么？”

“Do I need a reason?”
“我需要理由吗？”

“I suppose not, it’s just—”
“我想不是，只是——”

“Might I remind you whose home you are in?” Malfoy asked, his voice light but his eyes sharp. “I was merely asking out of politeness.”
“我能提醒你你在谁家吗？”马尔福问道，他的声音很轻，但眼神很锐利。“我只是出于礼貌而问。”

“Oh, alright,” Hermione snapped. “Pick one.”
“哦，好吧，”赫敏厉声说。“选一个。”

Rising to his feet, he set his tea down on the tray and selected a folder at random. With it in hand, he lowered himself back down into the chair, crossed one leg over the other and flipped the folder open. The purple sticker just visible on the cover identified it as Neville’s folder. 
他站起来，把茶放在托盘上，随意选了一个文件夹。拿着它，他把自己放回椅子上，一条腿交叉在另一条腿上，翻开了文件夹。封面上刚好可见的紫色贴纸表明这是 Neville 的文件夹。

“You’re going to sit here and do it?” 
“你要坐在这里做这件事吗？”

He glanced up from his reading and raised an eyebrow. “I wouldn’t like to take your things away from you. Besides." He gestured to the table with a lazy twirl of his fingers. "I’m sure there is some kind of order here even if it is difficult to identify.”
他从阅读中抬起头来，扬起了眉毛。“我不想把你的东西从你身边拿走。此外。他懒洋洋地转动着手指，指着桌子。“我敢肯定这里有某种秩序，即使很难识别。”

Rolling her eyes, Hermione waved a hand telling him to carry on and turned back to her own work, not missing his victorious smirk as she did so. 
赫敏翻了个白眼，挥了挥手，让他继续，然后转身回到自己的工作中，没有错过他胜利的笑容。

For a time, he read quietly while Hermione scoured Sprout’s interview, marking out pertinent sections. Technically, she supposed, he was a quiet, well-behaved library companion but she couldn’t help but be very aware of him. Usually there was a desk between them, for one thing. When she found herself glancing at him out of the corner of her eye for the sixth or seventh time, Hermione sighed with frustration.
有一段时间，他静静地阅读，而赫敏则翻阅着斯普劳特的采访，标出相关的部分。她想，从技术上讲，他是一个安静、乖巧的图书馆伙伴，但她忍不住非常了解他。一方面，他们之间通常有一张桌子。当她发现自己第六次或第七次用眼角的余光瞥了他一眼时，赫敏沮丧地叹了口气。

“Mr Malfoy,” she said abruptly, setting her quill down so that she could turn to look at him, “can I ask you something?”
“马尔福先生，”她突然说，放下羽毛笔，让她可以转身看着他，“我能问你点什么吗？

He glanced up at her from under his brows, looking wary. “I’ve never been able to stop you before.”
他从眉毛下抬头瞥了她一眼，看起来很警惕。“我以前从来没有阻止过你。”

“Have you ever really spent time in the company of a Muggle-born?”
“你真的有没有和一个麻瓜出身的人在一起？”

“Miss Granger, I have been locked up in this manor for eight years, not my entire life. I would think it a great achievement not to encounter at least one of your kind in the course of living in our world.”
“格兰杰小姐，我已经被关在这个庄园里八年了，不是我这辈子。我认为在我们的世界生活中没有遇到至少一个同类是一种了不起的成就。

“No,” Hermione shook her head, “I don’t mean just being around us. I mean…like this.” She waved her hand back and forth between them and he looked at it askance, drawing back slightly. “Talking. Sitting together.”
“不，”赫敏摇摇头，“我不是说只在我们身边。我的意思是。。。就像这样。她在他们之间来回挥舞着手，他疑惑地看着它，微微缩回去。“说话。坐在一起。

Slowly, he closed the folder to give her his full attention but he kept his place in it with his forefinger. “I have never needed to.”
他慢慢地合上文件夹，全神贯注地关注她，但他用食指保持着自己的位置。“我从来不需要。”

“You don’t really need to now,” Hermione pointed out.
“你现在真的不需要，”赫敏指出。

“No.”
“不。”

There was a beat of silence in which they assessed one another, both absorbing the strange shift towards stilted civility that was taking place. 
他们一阵沉默，互相打量着彼此，都吸收了正在发生的奇怪的转向生硬的礼貌。

“It’s not so bad, is it?” Hermione asked, a small smile quivering at the corners of her mouth.  
“还不错吧？”赫敏问道，嘴角微微一笑。

His responding glare was so withering that Hermione tucked her lips between her teeth at the sight of it, as though eating her fledgling smile. “When you are silent,” he said, “it’s almost like being alone.”
他回应的目光是如此枯萎，以至于赫敏一看到它就把嘴唇夹在牙缝里，仿佛在吃她雏形的笑容。“当你沉默时，”他说，“几乎就像一个人一样。

Taking the hint, Hermione turned back to her work, but the small smile re-emerged as she did so. Something in her notes had discomfited him; made him curious. It could have been one of many things. Certainly, he’d likely realised that his family wasn’t the bastion of purity it claimed to be. Good . 
赫敏听了这个暗示，转身继续她的工作，但当她这样做时，那一丝微笑又浮现出来了。她笔记里有什么东西使他感到不安;让他感到好奇。这可能是许多事情中的一个。当然，他可能已经意识到他的家庭并不是它所声称的纯洁堡垒。 好。

The longer they sat, the easier Hermione found it to forget he was there. She forgot everything, actually, when she got lost in her work. It was only when she was reaching up to adjust her ponytail again that she caught a glimpse of her watch. 
他们坐得越久，赫敏就越容易忘记他的存在。实际上，当她迷失在工作中时，她忘记了一切。直到她再次伸手调整马尾辫时，她才瞥见了她的手表。

“Oh!” she exclaimed, looking down at it. From out of the corner of her eye she saw Malfoy jump slightly at her sudden noisiness. Clearly he’d been lost in whatever he’d been doing too. It was such a small, relatable human movement that she couldn’t help but give him an apologetic smile. “I’d best go; I have to be somewhere.”
“噢！” 她低头看着它喊道。她用眼角的余光看到马尔福被她突然的吵闹吓得微微跳了起来。显然，他也沉浸在他一直在做的任何事情中。这是一个如此微小、令人共鸣的人类动作，她忍不住向他露出一个抱歉的微笑。“我最好走;我得去某个地方。

He closed the folder and uncrossed his legs, glancing at her as he set it on the desk. “Another date?” he drawled mockingly. “What will it be this time, I wonder, a jolly trip to Honeydukes?”
他合上文件夹，解开双腿，一边把它放在桌子上，一边瞥了她一眼。“再来一次约会？”“我想知道，这次去 Honeydukes 的快乐之旅会是什么？”

Hermione scoffed angrily as she rose to her feet. She lifted and dropped the folder he’d been reading back in its place with a touch more force than necessary. “No, actually.” She turned her head to look at him while leaning her hands flat on the cover of the folder. “Terry Boot and I are not to be. Woe is me.”
赫敏愤怒地嘲笑着站了起来。她把他正在阅读的文件夹拿起又放回原处，用力过猛。“其实没有。”她转头看着他，同时双手平放在文件夹的封面上。“特里·布特和我不应该。我有祸了。

“Boot,” Malfoy murmured, drumming his fingers contemplatively against the desk, as though attempting to dial into his memory. “I know that name. Ravenclaw?"
“靴子，”马尔福喃喃自语，用手指在桌子上沉思地敲打着，仿佛试图拨动他的记忆。“我知道那个名字。拉文克劳？

Hermione nodded and Malfoy sniffed, satisfied he'd been right. "Yes, I'm familiar. With the grandfather I can only assume, based on his age. A great condescending bore.”
赫敏点点头，马尔福吸了吸鼻子，确信自己是对的。“是的，我很熟悉。对于祖父，我只能根据他的年龄来假设。一个巨大的居高临下的无聊。

A reluctant smile pulled at Hermione’s lips. It was nice to hear Terry slated even indirectly. 
赫敏的嘴唇上露出一个不情愿的笑容。很高兴听到特里间接地被安排。

"Terribly embarrassing for you, Miss Granger, that you failed to make a positive impression when the young man’s own family can be so unflatteringly described. What does that say about you, I wonder?"
“真是太尴尬了，格兰杰小姐，你没能给人留下一个正面的印象，而这个年轻人自己的家庭竟然可以被如此不客气地描述出来。我想知道，这说明了你什么？

Hermione's smile immediately slipped. "Excuse me,” she said, lifting a hand from the folder to place it on her hip as she turned towards him. “Who's to say I’m the one who made the bad impression?”
赫敏的笑容立刻溜走了。“对不起，”她说，一边从文件夹里拿出一只手放在她的臀部上，一边转向他。“谁能说我是给人留下坏印象的人？”

“Admittedly, I’m not familiar with him but I am increasingly familiar with yourself and, well…” Malfoy trailed off, a careless shrug lifting his shoulders in a way that only served to raise Hermione’s ire. “If I had to place a bet.”
“诚然，我和他不熟悉，但我对你越来越熟悉了，而且，嗯......”马尔福慢慢地走开了，漫不经心地耸了耸肩，这只会激起赫敏的怒火。“如果我必须打赌。”

“We argued about love potions, for your information,” she snapped, not entirely sure why she so intensely felt the need to defend herself. “It was hardly one-sided.”
“我们争论过爱情药水，供你参考，”她厉声说，不完全确定为什么她如此强烈地感到需要保护自己。“这几乎不是一边倒的。”

Malfoy leaned back and gave her a wry look as he clasped his hands in his lap. “Has anyone ever told you that starting arguments is generally not the best way to encourage affection?”
马尔福向后靠，双手紧握在膝盖上，讽刺地看了她一眼。“有没有人告诉你，开始争论通常不是鼓励感情的最佳方式？”

“I think you’ll find that I started a debate,” Hermione said, placing a hand on her chest. “ He was the one who made it an argument.”
“我想你会发现我开始了一场辩论，”赫敏说，把一只手放在她的胸口。“他是让这成为争论的人。”

Malfoy gave her a knowing look and heat rose in her cheeks. “Miss Granger, you do not so much debate as rant and harangue.”
马尔福会意地看了她一眼，她的脸颊上升起了热气。“格兰杰小姐，你与其说是辩论，不如说是咆哮和吵闹。”

Tutting, Hermione turned back to organising her folders, muttering “arse” under her breath as she did so.
啧啧称奇，赫敏转身开始整理她的文件夹，一边低声咕哝着“屁股”。

“Pardon?” he asked, head tilted and looking up at her from his seated position. She was fairly sure he’d heard.
“对不起？”他问道，歪着头，从坐姿上抬头看着她。她相当确定他听到了。

“Nothing,” Hermione responded quickly with a falsely sweet smile. “Anyway,” she continued, tidying her papers, “I’m seeing friends. At least that guarantees me a halfway pleasant evening. They like my ‘haranguing’.”
“没什么，”赫敏迅速地回答，露出一个假甜的笑容。“不管怎样，”她继续说，整理着她的文件，“我正在见朋友。至少这保证了我度过了一个愉快的夜晚。他们喜欢我的'吵闹'。

Reaching up Hermione pulled her hair from its ponytail and shook her curls out, moving the hair tie up to her wrist. Stepping out from the desk, she hauled her satchel up onto her shoulder and turned to look at Malfoy who was still seated, watching her. 
赫敏伸手从马尾辫上拉起她的头发，把她的卷发甩了甩，把发带拉到手腕上。她从桌子上走出来，把书包拽到肩上，转身看向仍然坐着的马尔福。

“I’ll see you next week, Mr Malfoy.”
“下周见，马尔福先生。”

She waved over her shoulder at him before throwing some Floo Powder into the fireplace, disappearing in a flash of green.
她向他挥了挥手，然后把一些飞路粉扔进了壁炉，消失在一阵绿色的闪光中。

Lucius sat for a moment longer, watching the fireplace thoughtfully, his fingers drumming a disjointed rhythm on the table. His eyes drifted to the tea and sandwiches he'd instructed Letty to bring to her. Though Letty tended to cater to excess, he could tell Granger had eaten at least one. 
卢修斯又坐了一会儿，若有所思地看着壁炉，他的手指在桌子上敲打着断断续续的节奏。他的目光飘向他指示Letty给她带来的茶和三明治。虽然莱蒂倾向于迎合过量，但他可以看出格兰杰至少吃了一杯。

He’d had a couple of motivations for sending them but none of them had been kindness.
他送他们来的动机有很多，但都不是出于善意。

Primarily he'd wanted access to the rest of her work. Given he knew her to be capable of withstanding torture, he'd thought trying a more hospitable approach would yield results and he'd been correct.
首先，他想了解她剩下的工作。鉴于他知道她能够承受折磨，他认为尝试一种更热情好客的方法会产生结果，而他是对的。

He'd also nursed a secondary hope of discomfiting her. She’d been so confident and aggressive in his grounds, so ready to speak her mind, that he’d been looking for a way to unsettle her as she had unsettled him. An unprompted display of thoughtful hospitality had felt like a novel approach but her ready acceptance of it suggested he had missed the mark. She appeared to have taken it, and by extension him, in her stride. 
他还酝酿着让她不安的次要希望。她在他的地盘上是如此自信和咄咄逼人，如此准备好说出她的想法，以至于他一直在寻找一种方法来让她感到不安，就像她让他感到不安一样。无端的体贴款待感觉像是一种新奇的方法，但她欣然接受表明他错过了目标。她似乎从容不迫地接受了它，进而接受了他。

The idea that he had, over the past eight years, possibly become the kind of wizard who would believably just give out sandwiches made him want to throw himself bodily into the fire through which she had just left.
在过去的八年里，他可能已经成为那种只会分发三明治的巫师，这让他想把自己的身体扔进她刚刚离开的火中。

Glancing down at his arm, Lucius saw a long brown hair standing out stark against the whiteness of his shirt. Lip curled in distaste, he lifted it between his thumb and forefinger and flicked it away to her side of the desk. 
卢修斯低头瞥了一眼他的手臂，看到一头棕色的长发在他白色的衬衫上显得格外醒目。他厌恶地弯起嘴唇，用拇指和食指举起它，把它弹到她桌边。

“She’s here!”
“她在这里！”

“On time!”
“准时！”

“Mon dieu.”
“Mon dieu。”

“Cor blimey !”
“Cor blimey ！”

Hermione blinked rapidly, nonplussed by the onslaught that was her greeting as she stepped into the Potters’ living room. Once she had her bearings, she looked, unamused, between Ron and Ginny’s grinning, extremely close faces. “And she brought cake and wine again, so if you want any you’ll both shut your faces.”
赫敏迅速地眨了眨眼，对她走进波特家客厅时问候的猛烈攻击毫不在意。一旦她确定了方向，她就毫不高兴地看着罗恩和金妮咧嘴笑着、非常亲密的脸。“她又带来了蛋糕和葡萄酒，所以如果你想要任何一个，你们俩都闭上脸。”

“So generous,” Ron said bowing as he lifted the wine from Hermione’s arms.
“好慷慨，”罗恩鞠躬说，从赫敏的怀里拿起酒。

“Magnanimous,” Ginny gasped, accepting the cake.
“宽宏大量，”金妮喘着粗气，接过蛋糕。

“She will hex you,” Harry called, as he paced into the room, jiggling a sobbing James in his arms. “He bit his tongue,” he added quietly in response to Hermione’s look of concern.
“她会给你下咒的，”哈利喊道，他踱步走进房间，怀里抱着啜泣的詹姆斯。“他咬了自己的舌头，”他轻声补充道，回应赫敏关切的表情。

“She can’t hex me ,” Ginny said indignantly, turning towards the kitchen. “I’m pregnant!”
“她不能给我下诅咒，”金妮愤愤不平地说，转身走向厨房。“我怀孕了！”

“I’ll bide my time, then,” Hermione said darkly as she followed her. 
“那么，我就等着我的时间吧，”赫敏跟在她身后，阴沉地说。

“You’ve been hanging around Malfoy Manor too long,” said Ron from behind Hermione, his face appearing over her shoulder. “I believed that for a second.”
“你在马尔福庄园闲逛太久了，”罗恩从赫敏身后说，他的脸出现在她的肩膀上。“我有那么一秒钟相信了。”

“No,” corrected Ginny. “The Malfoys would take my pregnancy as a bonus. Two Blood Traitors in one.”
“不，”金妮纠正道。“马尔福夫妇会把我怀孕当作奖励。两个血腥叛徒合二为一。

They finally arrived in the kitchen and separated, Hermione opening and closing her mouth uncomfortably. She wanted to offer a defence of Draco, at least, but didn’t really see how she could go about it without ruining Ron and Ginny’s fun. After the debacle with Terry she really did want just one pleasant evening. 
他们终于到了厨房，分开了，赫敏不舒服地张开和闭上了嘴。至少，她想为德拉科辩护，但并没有真正看到她如何在不破坏罗恩和金妮的乐趣的情况下去做。在与 Terry 的失败之后，她真的只想要一个愉快的夜晚。

“So, what are we having tonight?” Ron asked, rubbing his hands together. “Chinese again?”
“那么，我们今晚有什么？”罗恩问道，双手合搓着。“又是中国人？”

“No,” said Harry brightly, his head popping around the door. “I cooked.”
“不，”哈利爽朗地说，他的头在门口噗噗噗地转了一圈。“我做饭了。”

Hermione and Ron looked at one another and then over to Ginny who grimaced with a helpless ‘what could I do?’ shrug. 
赫敏和罗恩面面相觑，然后看向金妮，金妮无奈地做了个鬼脸，耸耸肩，“我能做什么呢？

“Hey,” said Harry, entering the room properly, still jiggling a now calm James in his arms. “I can cook.”
“嘿，”哈利说，正确地走进了房间，仍然在怀里搓着现在已经平静的詹姆斯。“我会做饭。”

“Yes you can,” said Ginny unconvincingly as Ron added "not well ” under his breath. 
“是的，你可以，”金妮不服气地说，而罗恩则低声补充道“不太好”。

Harry, as it turned out, had made an ambitious attempt at steak pie. Steak pie with very burnt pastry and some unnervingly lumpy mashed potato. It was edible steak pie nonetheless. The meat was, at least, cooked. Perhaps too much so. 
事实证明，哈利在牛排派方面做出了雄心勃勃的尝试。牛排派配非常烧焦的糕点和一些令人不安的块状土豆泥。尽管如此，它还是可食用的牛排馅饼。至少，肉是煮熟的。也许太多了。

“The red wine will help,” Ron said confidently, pouring them large glasses while Ginny scoffed, asking what she was supposed to do.
“红酒会有帮助的，”罗恩自信地说，给他们倒了一大杯，而金妮则嘲笑着问她应该怎么做。

“Take responsibility for what you allowed to happen,” Ron said loftily. Ginny looked like she was going to argue the point but then reconsidered with a penitent nod.
“为你允许发生的事情负责，”罗恩高傲地说。金妮看起来似乎要争论这个问题，但随后又重新考虑了一下，忏悔地点了点头。

“How are things anyway?” Hermione asked Ron, dipping some bread into her pie as a means of avoiding the pastry. 
“话说回来怎么样？”赫敏问罗恩，一边在她的馅饼里蘸了一些面包，以避免吃糕点。

To her surprise, he groaned and took a long drink of wine before answering. “Hannah’s been looking at jobs.” 
令她惊讶的是，他呻吟着喝了一大口酒才回答。“汉娜一直在找工作。”

It seemed like an odd thing to be upset about. “Well,” Hermione said, with a questioning glance in the direction of Harry, who simply shook his head to indicate this was the first he was hearing of it too. “Her training is coming to an end. That makes sense.”
这似乎是一件奇怪的事情。“嗯，”赫敏说，疑惑地看了哈利一眼，哈利只是摇了摇头，表示这也是他第一次听到这件事。“她的训练即将结束。这是有道理的。

“Yeah, but she’s got it into her head that she wants to be the matron at Hogwarts, hasn’t she?” Hermione raised her eyebrows as Ron pushed his food around his plate with his fork, a moody expression on his face. “There’s a job going,” Ron went on, “and she says that’s what she’d love to do.”
“是啊，但她心里一直想成为霍格沃茨的校长，不是吗？”赫敏扬起眉毛，罗恩用叉子把食物推到他的盘子里，脸上露出喜怒无常的表情。“有一份工作在进行中，”罗恩继续说，“她说这就是她想做的事情。

“And you’re…less keen?”
“而你......不那么热衷吗？

“I don’t want my girlfriend living all the way up there. She’ll be away most of the year!” Ron grumbled, stabbing a particularly hard bit of pastry with his fork and missing it so that it skittered onto the table. 
“我不想让我的女朋友一直住在那里。她一年中大部分时间都会离开！罗恩抱怨着，用叉子捅了一块特别硬的糕点，没碰到它，以至于它滑到了桌子上。

Hermione, Ginny and Harry shared a look, a silent debate raging. Ginny eventually took charge. “Maybe you could visit her? Do long distance? We visit Neville often enough, Ron, it wouldn’t be that bad.”
赫敏、金妮和哈利对视一眼，无声的争论正在激烈进行。金妮最终接管了一切。“也许你可以去看望她？做长途？我们经常去看纳威，罗恩，情况不会那么糟糕。

“Not bloody likely with the way the shop is right now. I’m working all the time. I’d just like one thing to be easy.” Ron looked up from his plate and saw the three of them looking at him with concern. “Forget it,” he said with a wave of his hand, trying and failing to disguise his disgruntled expression, “she might not even get it and then I’ll have been worrying for nothing.”
“以这家店现在的样子，不可能很血腥。我一直在工作。我只希望一件事变得简单。罗恩从盘子里抬起头，看到他们三个人关切地看着他。“算了吧，”他挥了挥手说，试图掩饰他不满的表情，“她可能连它都得不到，那样我就白白担心了。

Hermione took a drink, covertly inspecting Ron over the rim of her glass. It didn’t feel like a good sign that his happiness was hinging on Hannah not getting what she wanted. It felt like a death knell for the relationship. Ron could be an incredibly accommodating and easy-going partner but mainly when he was accommodating things that were still within his vision of what his relationship should look like. Dating a long distance matron was not Ron’s vision.
赫敏喝了一口，偷偷地隔着玻璃杯的边缘打量着罗恩。这感觉不是一个好兆头，他的快乐取决于汉娜没有得到她想要的东西。这感觉就像是这段关系的丧钟。罗恩可能是一个非常包容和随和的伴侣，但主要是当他适应那些仍然在他对他的关系应该是什么样子的愿景中的事情时。与异地恋主妇约会并不是 Ron 的愿景。

“What about you?” asked Harry, making Hermione jump to attention, tearing her eyes from Ron. “I heard you were on a date . With Terry Boot of all people.”
“那你呢？”哈利问道，这让赫敏立刻注意到了，把眼睛从罗恩身上移开。“我听说你在约会。和所有人的特里·布特在一起。

Ginny grinned apologetically when Hermione gave her an indignant look. Ron sat up straighter, setting his fork down with a clatter on his plate. “Kept that bloody quiet!” he said incredulously.
金妮抱歉地笑了笑，赫敏愤愤不平地看了她一眼。罗恩坐直了身子，把叉子放下，盘子里咔嚓一声。“保持那的沉默！”

“For good reason.” Hermione sighed, falling back in her chair and using the edge of her fork to toy with her food. 
“有充分的理由。”赫敏叹了口气，坐回椅子上，用叉子的边缘玩弄着她的食物。

Harry’s smile slipped. “Sorry, Hermione. Not good?”
哈利的笑容滑落了。“对不起，赫敏。不好吗？

“No." She shook her head. “Not good.”
“不。”她摇了摇头。“不好。”

Ginny groaned and dropped her elbows onto the table, supporting her chin with her hands. “What happened?”
金妮呻吟着，将胳膊肘放在桌子上，用手托着下巴。“发生了什么事？”

“It started well enough.” Hermione shrugged. “We got some ice cream, went for drinks afterwards. And then we started talking about love potions and got into an argument about them.”
“开始还不错。”赫敏耸耸肩。“我们买了一些冰淇淋，然后去喝了一杯。然后我们开始谈论爱情药水，并就它们发生了争吵。

“Well, they’re wrong,” Harry said, tearing a piece of bread while shrugging matter of factly. “What is there to argue about?”
“嗯，他们错了，”哈利说，一边撕开一块面包，一边耸耸肩。“有什么好争论的？”

“That’s what I said,” Hermione said, pushing herself up to sit straighter. “He didn’t fully agree. Then he made a dig about me jinxing that DA parchment and Marietta’s lack of consent around that.”
“我是这么说的，”赫敏说，把自己撑起来坐直了。“他并不完全同意。然后他挖了一番关于我对那张 DA 羊皮纸的怀疑，以及 Marietta 对此没有同意。

“That was clever!” Harry exclaimed angrily. “She deserved that and I’ll stand by it even now.”
“真聪明！”哈利愤怒地喊道。“她活该，即使现在我也会支持它。”

“Thank you!” Hermione cried, her arm reaching across the table to gesture gratefully at Harry. “Anyway, I called it after that. I wasn’t particularly in the mood to talk anymore.”
“谢谢你！”赫敏喊道，她的手臂伸过桌子，感激地向哈利打了个手势。“不管怎样，我在那之后叫了它。我不是特别想再说话了。

Ginny patted Hermione’s other hand sympathetically from across the table. “I think maybe you’re just not meant to date Ravenclaws,” she said with her best ‘I’m being kind’ voice. “It’s a lot of desire to be right in one relationship. Maybe a nice, agreeable Hufflepuff next time.”
金妮从桌子对面同情地拍了拍赫敏的另一只手。“我想也许你只是不适合和拉文克劳约会，”她用她最好的“我是好心的”声音说。“在一段关系中，人们非常渴望正确。也许下次会是一个不错的、和蔼可亲的赫奇帕奇。

“You can have Hannah if you want,” Ron muttered. “Maybe you’d be able to browbeat her into staying.”
“如果你愿意，你可以拥有汉娜，”罗恩咕哝道。“也许你能劝她留下来。”

“I don’t browbeat people,” Hermione said, pulling her hand from under Ginny’s to cross her arms. 
“我不会责怪别人，”赫敏说，从金妮的手下抽出来，交叉着她的手臂。

“Sure you don’t,” Ginny said happily. 
“你当然不知道，”金妮高兴地说。

“I think I’d be wary of anyone that tries to defend love potions anyway,” said Harry as he picked up his wine. “Probably a good call, Hermione.” 
“我想无论如何我都会警惕任何试图为爱情魔药辩护的人，”哈利拿起他的酒说。“也许是个好主意，赫敏。”

“They’re good sellers, you know,” Ron grumbled, his ears turning red. “I mean, I’d never use one but—”
“他们很畅销，你知道的，”罗恩抱怨道，他的耳朵变得通红。“我是说，我永远不会用，但是——”

“Besides,” Ginny interrupted, rolling her eyes at Ron, “didn’t Luna say Terry only thinks he likes girls that are more clever than him? You need a man that knows he likes clever girls.” Ginny nodded sagely at Hermione, then at Harry who nodded back. “He is out there.”
“再说了，”金妮打断了她，对罗恩翻了个白眼，“卢娜不是说过特里只觉得他喜欢比他聪明的女孩吗？你需要一个知道他喜欢聪明女孩的男人。金妮睿智地向赫敏点了点头，然后又向哈利点了点头。“他在外面。”

“Somewhere,” added Harry with a wavering, mystical voice like Professor Trelawney and a distant look on his face that made Ron and Ginny laugh uproariously. 
“在某个地方，”哈利补充道，他的声音像特里劳尼教授一样摇摆不定，神秘得脸上带着遥远的表情，这让罗恩和金妮大笑起来。

“You’re all prats,” Hermione said, her arms still crossed but a wide grin spreading over her face.
“你们都是小子，”赫敏说，她的手臂仍然交叉着，但脸上却露出了灿烂的笑容。

“Speaking of prats: how are the Malfoys?” Ron asked through a mouthful of mash. 
“说到小子：马尔福家怎么样？”罗恩一口泥问道。

“Oh, she’s stopped going there,” Ginny said with an assured smile which dimmed on seeing Hermione's responding grimace. “You have stopped going there?” 
“哦，她已经不去了那里，”金妮带着自信的笑容说，但看到赫敏回应的鬼脸，笑容变得黯淡了。“你已经不去那里了？”

Hermione didn’t reply, her lips pressed tight and Ginny made a frustrated noise in the back of her throat. “You went back ? After the argument you had?”
赫敏没有回答，她的嘴唇紧紧地抿着，金妮的喉咙后部发出了沮丧的声音。“你回去了？在你吵架之后？

“Argument?” asked Harry, sitting up straighter. 
“争论？” 哈利问道，坐直了身子。

“We had an argument,” Hermione said, waving her hand dismissively. “It’s over now; the interviews are back on.”
“我们吵架了，”赫敏说，不屑地挥了挥手。“现在已经结束了;采访又开始了。

“Argument about what?” Harry was frowning, worried and looking from Hermione to Ginny. Hermione got the feeling he was going to have a stern word with Ginny about sharing everything with him. He had once told her that gossip was one of the pillars of marriage and she fully believed him.
“争论什么？”哈利皱着眉头，担心着，从赫敏看向金妮。赫敏有一种感觉，他要和金妮说一句严厉的话，要把一切都分享给他。他曾经告诉她，八卦是婚姻的支柱之一，她完全相信他。

“She wouldn’t tell me,” Ginny said, shrugging. “Such a non-story. Had her furious, whatever it was, mind.” 
“她不会告诉我的，”金妮耸耸肩说。“真是个没故事。让她生气，不管是什么。

“We just, you know, had an argument,” Hermione said, raising her hands in the air in a ‘who cares’ way. “We’re very different people so it’s bound to happen. It’s fine now.”
“我们刚刚，你知道的，吵了一架，”赫敏说，以一种“谁在乎”的方式将双手举向空中。“我们是非常不同的人，所以这肯定会发生。现在没事了。

“What, so, Daddy Malfoy has suddenly stopped being mean?” asked Ginny doubtfully. 
“什么，所以，马尔福爸爸突然不再刻薄了？”

“ Don’t call him ‘Daddy Malfoy’, Ginny,” Ron said with an exasperated sigh.
“别叫他'马尔福爸爸'，金妮，”罗恩恼怒地叹了口气。

“What? He is Malfoy’s dad. And he’s a Malfoy. Ergo, Daddy Malfoy.”
“什么？他是马尔福的爸爸。而且他是马尔福。呃，马尔福爸爸。

“Yeah, but it’s just a bit—”
“是啊，但只是有点——”

“Mr Malfoy is co-operating,” Hermione said, her tone broaching no further argument. “That’s all I need from him. Today he was actually fairly—”
“马尔福先生在合作，”赫敏说，她的语气没有进一步的争论。“这就是我从他那里需要的。今天他其实还算——”

“Today?” Harry asked, voice lilting with surprise. “I thought you met on Thursdays.”
“今天？”哈利问道，声音里带着惊讶。“我以为你在星期四见面。”

“Okay, Mr Auror," Hermione said with a sidelong look at Harry. "He came into the library while I was working.” 
“好的，傲罗先生，”赫敏侧头看了哈利一眼。“他在我工作的时候进了图书馆。”

“To…” Ginny said, rolling her hand in a circle to encourage explanation.
“去......”金妮说，用手转圈鼓励解释。

“To make sure I got the tea he asked his house elf to bring me.”
“为了确保我喝到茶，他让他的家养小精灵带我来。”

“What the fuck is going on in that house?” asked Ron, his tone equal parts horrified and mystified. 
“那他妈的房子里怎么了？” 罗恩问道，他的语气既惊恐又困惑。

“Did he, like, pour it on you?” Ginny asked, peeking under the table as though looking for burns on Hermione’s legs.
“他有没有，比如，把酒倒在你身上？”金妮问道，一边偷看桌子底下，好像在寻找赫敏腿上的烧伤。

“What? No!” Hermione shook her head, laughter bubbling up. “It was just polite, I’m sure. And probably to keep me in the library and out of his kitchen.”
“什么？不！赫敏摇摇头，笑声不断涌现。“我敢肯定，这只是礼貌。可能是为了让我留在图书馆和他的厨房里。

“Right,” Ron said, giving Hermione a sidelong look that made her hit back with a perfected ‘oh shut up’ look of her own. “Watch your back Hermione.”
“好吧，”罗恩说，侧头看了赫敏一眼，让她用自己完美的“哦，闭嘴”的表情回击。“小心你的背影，赫敏。”

“What do you think he’s going to do, hospitality me to death?”
“你觉得他会怎么做，把我款待得死去活来？”

“Wouldn’t put it past him to try. Dobby almost saved Harry to death, didn't he. Maybe he learned a few things about that from his master at the time.”
“不会让他尝试。多比差点把哈利救死了，不是吗。也许他当时从他的师父那里学到了一些东西。

Hermione looked at Harry disbelievingly, inviting him to interject and decry the idiocy of Ron’s theory, but he merely shrugged. 
赫敏难以置信地看着哈利，邀请他插嘴，谴责罗恩的理论是愚蠢的，但他只是耸了耸肩。

“Let’s move on,” she said, pinching the bridge of her nose, “shall we?”
“我们继续吧，”她捏着鼻梁说，“好吗？

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Thanks all for your continued support <3 It means a lot!
感谢大家一直以来的支持 <3 意义重大！

Chapter 16
第十六章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione gives Lucius a helping hand (unwanted) and they have another interview.
赫敏向卢修斯伸出了援助之手（不受欢迎的），他们又进行了一次采访。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

SORRY! Sorry for the unexpectedly long gap all. I went on a last minute road trip and therefore didn't have my laptop and I HATE updating via my phone. But we're here. Finally! I hope it's worth the wait.
不好意思！很抱歉，所有人的间隔出乎意料地长。我去了最后一分钟的公路旅行，因此没有笔记本电脑，我讨厌通过手机更新。但我们在这里。最后！我希望等待是值得的。

June 8th
6月8日

Lucius stood with his hands on his hips, eyeing the gnarled Snargaluff stump apprehensively. It wasn't really a one man job and he knew it. 
卢修斯双手叉腰站着，忧心忡忡地盯着那根多节的斯纳加洛夫树桩。这并不是一个人的工作，他知道这一点。

He supposed he could call Draco but it was such a pointless musing because he wasn’t going to. Draco was probably only still living in the manor because of him, he would not ask him for more. Certainly, it was Draco who needed the Snargaluff pod for his potion but that was even less reason to ask him. He could do things for his son alone .
他以为他可以给德拉科打电话，但那是毫无意义的沉思，因为他不打算这样做。德拉科可能只是因为他才还住在庄园里，他不会再向他要求更多了。当然，是德拉科需要斯纳加洛夫胶囊来装他的药水，但那更不是问他的理由。他可以独自为儿子做事。

Hooking the collar of his shirt with his finger, Lucius tugged at it to allow some air to circulate around his neck. The sun was pressing against the glass panes of the greenhouse, creating an oppressive heat. He'd spent the entire morning in it doing various jobs and he was starting to wish he hadn't left this particular one for last.
卢修斯用手指勾住衬衫的领子，拉扯它，让一些空气在他的脖子上循环。阳光压在温室的玻璃板上，产生一种闷热的热量。他花了一整个上午的时间在里面做各种工作，他开始希望自己没有把这个特别的工作留到最后。

Lucius was so lost in thought, he didn't hear the rustles and murmurs of a person approaching him through the greenhouse. Nor did he see Hermione duck under a large, overhanging leaf to his left and stop suddenly at the sight of him.
卢修斯陷入了沉思，他没有听到一个人从温室里向他走来的沙沙声和低语声。他也没有看到赫敏躲在他左边一片悬垂的大叶子下，一看到他就突然停了下来。

"Do not tell me you're going to try and tackle that on your own."
“别告诉我你要自己去搞定。”

Rolling his eyes, Lucius turned his head and saw that, as he had thought, the gratingly familiar voice did indeed belong to Granger. She was standing with her arms crossed, leaning her weight on one leg so that her hip jutted out. 
卢修斯翻了个白眼，转过头来，发现正如他所想的那样，那个熟悉的嗓音确实属于格兰杰。她双臂交叉站着，将体重靠在一条腿上，使臀部突出。

“And what if I am?”
“如果我是呢？”

“Then you're an idiot who deserves the thorny vine to the face that he's inevitably going to get.”
“那你就是个白痴，活该被荆棘藤打脸，他不可避免地会得到。”

Lucius tutted and turned to face her fully. “What are you doing here?”
卢修斯啧了一声，转过身来完全面对她。“你在这里做什么？”

Straightening up and uncrossing her arms, Hermione held up her wrist and jabbed a finger at the watch she was wearing. “Meeting time. You're late and I was told I'd find you here.” 
赫敏直起身来，松开双臂，举起手腕，用手指戳了戳她戴着的手表。“见面时间。你迟到了，我听说我会在这里找到你。

“By?” Lucius asked, his voice low and angry.
“靠？”卢修斯问道，他的声音低沉而愤怒。

“None of your business,” Hermione said primly, clasping her hands behind her back as she rose up briefly on her toes.
“不关你的事，”赫敏一本正经地说，双手紧握在背后，踮起脚尖短暂地站了起来。

Letty, he thought venomously. That house elf was the bane of his life. Well, actually, Granger was the bane of his life but the elf was clearly determined to assist her in that through her sheer inability to deny the girl anything.
莱蒂，他恶毒地想。那个家养小精灵是他一生的祸根。嗯，实际上，格兰杰是他生命中的克星，但这个精灵显然决心通过她完全无法否认这个女孩的任何事情来帮助他们。

“Nice apron, by the way.”
“顺便说一句，漂亮的围裙。”

Lucius dropped his head so that his chin almost touched his chest and squeezed the bridge of his nose between his thumb and forefinger. “Miss Granger, you are…” He sighed and shook his head, lifting it to look at her again. “Return to the manor. Now. I will meet you in my study shortly. And don’t touch anything while you’re in there.”
卢修斯低下头，下巴几乎碰到他的胸口，用拇指和食指挤压着他的鼻梁。“格兰杰小姐，你是......”他叹了口气，摇了摇头，抬起头再次看着她。“回到庄园去。现在。我很快就会在我的书房里见到你。你在里面的时候不要碰任何东西。

No longer interested in her, Lucius turned away dismissively but from the corner of his eyes he could see she still hadn’t moved. 
卢修斯不再对她感兴趣，轻蔑地转过身去，但从他的眼角余光中，他可以看到她仍然没有动。

“I'm not leaving you if you're going to try to deal with that thing on your own,” she said.
“如果你打算尝试自己处理那件事，我不会离开你，”她说。

“Fine,” he snapped, barely turning his head in her direction. “I'm not. Now leave.”
“好吧，”他厉声说，勉强把头转向她的方向。“我没有。现在走吧。”

“That was so unconvincing, I now think this might be a cry for help.”
“这太没有说服力了，我现在认为这可能是一个求救。”

“Miss Granger —”
“格兰杰小姐——”

“Oh, I'm kidding .” Hermione dropped her bag onto the floor and walked towards him, shrugging off her light cardigan as she went to reveal a thin-strapped top beneath. “I'll help you,” she said, shoving the cardigan into an empty compartment beneath the table. She peered around the wooden surface and then up at him. “No other aprons?”
“哦，我在开玩笑。”赫敏把包丢在地上，向他走来，耸了耸肩，脱掉了她的轻便开衫，露出了下面的一件细带上衣。“我来帮你，”她说，把羊毛衫塞进桌子下面的一个空隔间里。她环顾着木头表面，然后抬头看向他。“没有别的围裙吗？”

“I don’t like other people being here.”
“我不喜欢其他人在这里。”

“Clearly,” she said, not taking his hint. Instead she shook her hair over her shoulders and placed her hands on her hips in the manner of a woman ready for a challenge. “Right, who's doing what?”
“显然，”她说，没有接受他的暗示。相反，她把头发甩到肩膀上，双手放在臀部上，就像一个准备好迎接挑战的女人一样。“对，谁在做什么？”

“You are returning to the manor and I am dealing with this.” 
“你要回庄园去了，我正在处理这件事。”

“Sure, okay." She was nodding her head like she had listened. She had not. "So, you deal with the vines and I'll stick my arm in?” She raised a hand and wriggled her fingers at him. “I think mine are smaller.”
“当然，好吧。”她点点头，就像她听了一样。她没有。“所以，你处理藤蔓，我就把我的胳膊伸进去？”她抬起一只手，朝他扭动着手指。“我觉得我的更小。”

“You are utterly impossible,” he snapped. Granger was a dangerous catalyst for the steady smouldering of his patience that had been taking place in the heat. A combustion was liable to take place in her presence. 
“你完全不可能，”他厉声说。格兰杰是一个危险的催化剂，导致他在高温下不断的耐心。在她面前很容易发生燃烧。

“High praise from the current most impossible person in this greenhouse.” Audible aggravation was beginning to creep into her voice.
“来自这个温室里目前最不可能的人的高度赞扬。”她的声音里开始传来一丝恼怒。

Hermione sighed sharply and tilted her head, her shiny curls falling back over her shoulder. “Mr Malfoy, just let me help. I won’t tell anyone. Besides, the sooner we do this, the sooner we do the interview, and the sooner I am out of your hair for another week.” 
赫敏猛地叹了口气，歪了歪头，她闪亮的卷发垂在肩膀上。“马尔福先生，让我来帮忙。我不会告诉任何人。再说了，我们越早做这件事，我们就越早做采访，我就越早离开你的头发再过一个星期。

He contemplated her set jaw and gleaming eyes and came to the rather depressing realisation that there was going to be no arguing with her. Particularly because she was actually right. It would only end badly for him if he did it alone and the visible results of that would be more embarrassing than allowing her to help him in secret. 
他凝视着她坚定的下巴和闪闪发光的眼睛，然后相当沮丧地意识到，不会再和她争论了。特别是因为她实际上是对的。如果他一个人做这件事，对他来说只会很糟糕，而这样做的明显结果比让她偷偷帮助他更尴尬。

“Fine,” he snapped. “Come here.” 
“好吧，”他厉声说。“过来。”

Hands still clasped behind her back, Hermione got even closer, closing the gap between them in two large steps to stand directly beside him. 
双手仍然紧握在背后，赫敏靠得更近了，用两大步缩小了他们之间的差距，直接站在了他身边。

“Do you agree with me?” she asked. “I'll get the pod? You're taller so stand behind me, just to the side, and grab the vines. Tying them—”
“你同意我的看法吗？”“我来拿豆荚？你个子高，所以站在我身后，就靠一边，抓住藤蔓。把他们绑起来——”

“In a knot is best. Yes, Miss Granger, I too attended sixth year Herbology classes.” He had never met anyone quite so bossy in his life.
“打结是最好的。是的，格兰杰小姐，我也上过六年级的草药学课。他这辈子从来没有见过这么专横的人。

Hermione blushed and shrugged. “It helps to talk things through out loud. “
赫敏脸红了，耸了耸肩。“大声说出来很有帮助。”

“Perhaps it helps you," he said, glaring down at her from the corner of his eyes. "It gives me a headache”. 
“也许这对你有帮助，”他说，用眼角的余光低头瞪着她。“这让我很头疼。”

“I'm sure lots of things give you a headache.” She looked up at him with a sarcastic smile.
“我敢肯定，很多事情都会让你头疼。”她抬头看着他，露出讽刺的笑容。

“Yes." He turned his head towards her to make his glare more pointed.
“是的。”他把头转向她，使他的目光更加尖锐。

Without even a moment of hesitation, Hermione slipped from her place beside him to move even closer, stopping just in front of him. 
赫敏没有片刻的犹豫，从他身边的位置滑了下来，进一步靠近，停在了他的面前。

Not expecting her to move so quickly, Lucius hesitated and fell back, looking down at the top of her head as though it was an ancient rune he'd never encountered. She was smaller than he’d initially thought – she moved through the world with the ferocity of someone twice her height.
没想到她动作这么快，卢修斯犹豫了一下，向后退去，低头看着她的头顶，仿佛那是他从未见过的古老符文。她比他最初想象的要小——她以两倍于她身高的人的凶猛穿越世界。

Collecting himself and moving forward to assume the position she had suggested – demanded – Lucius inhaled deeply in an effort to get a handle on his temper only to find himself taking in an unexpectedly sweet and floral scent. He wrinkled his nose. Was that…her? Given ordinary flowers weren’t something he kept in the greenhouse, it could only be. He looked down at her head again, frowning slightly. Such a delicately feminine scent didn't strike him as fitting for a harridan.
卢修斯镇定下来，向前走去，采取她建议——要求——的姿势，他深深地吸了一口气，试图控制住自己的脾气，却发现自己吸入了一股出乎意料的甜美和花香。他皱了皱鼻子。那是......她？鉴于普通的花不是他放在温室里的东西，那只能是。他又低头看了看她的头，微微皱起眉头。如此淡淡的女性气味让他觉得自己并不适合 harridan。

He'd been close to her but never for long enough to actually look . He was close enough to see the blonde in her curls, the faint constellation of freckles that spanned her shoulders, and a purple-ish mark that cut through the middle of them. The shape of it suggested it had been left behind by her heavy satchel. He vaguely wondered, with a contemplative tilt of his head, if it was painful, even if he didn't really care if it was.
他一直靠近她，但从来没有足够长的时间真正去看。他离得足够近，可以看到她卷发中的金发女郎，她肩膀上淡淡的雀斑群，以及从它们中间划出的紫色印记。它的形状表明它是她沉重的背包留下的。他隐约地想着，沉思地歪着头，这是否痛苦，即使他并不真的在乎是不是。

“Ready?” she asked, turning to look at him over her shoulder and drawing him out of his own head. She wasn’t perturbed by his proximity at all. So why was he?
“准备好了吗？”她问道，转身看着他，把他从自己的脑海里拉了出来。她一点也不因为他的靠近而感到不安。那么他为什么呢？

Blinking once, slowly, Lucius realised her nose had a slight upturn to it. It was smattered with freckles similar to the ones on her shoulders. Like someone had flicked her with a paintbrush.
Lucius缓缓地眨了眨眼，意识到她的鼻子微微上扬。它上面散布着类似于她肩膀上的雀斑。就像有人用画笔弹了她一样。

It had never occurred to him that Granger had…details. Then again, one didn't usually look for details in an effigy.
他从来没有想过格兰杰已经......详。话又说回来，人们通常不会在肖像中寻找细节。

Malfoy cleared his throat as she raised her eyebrows expectantly, realising he hadn't responded to her question. “I feel I should warn you, Miss Granger, that this Snargaluff recently suffered a cold, so I wouldn't linger in there.”
马尔福清了清嗓子，她期待地扬起眉毛，意识到他没有回答她的问题。“我觉得我应该警告你，格兰杰小姐，这个斯纳加洛夫最近感冒了，所以我不会在那儿逗留。”

“Interesting,” she turned back, leaning her elbows on the table and bending forwards on her tiptoes to peer more closely at the dormant stump. Looking back over her shoulder at him, she added, “I didn’t know they could get colds. What happens?”
“有意思，”她转过身来，将手肘靠在桌子上，踮起脚尖向前弯腰，更仔细地观察着休眠的树桩。她回头看着他，补充道，“我不知道他们会感冒。会发生什么事？

“They become more sensitive to intrusion,” Lucius replied, taking a subtle half-step back from her to establish a more appropriate distance between himself and her new position. 
“他们对侵入变得更加敏感，”卢修斯回答道，巧妙地从她身边后退了半步，在他和她的新位置之间建立了更合适的距离。

Hoping they could just get on with it and get her out of his way, he lifted some gloves from the pocket of his apron and put them on, drawing Hermione’s attention. 
希望他们能继续下去，让她离开他，他从围裙的口袋里掏出一些手套戴上，引起了赫敏的注意。

“Don’t suppose you’ve got any of those spare?” she asked, straightening up to turn around.
“你觉得你没有多余的吗？” 她问道，直起身来转身。

He shook his head and she sighed. “ Goggles , at least?”
他摇摇头，她叹了口气。“至少是护目镜？”

This time he was able to help and drew two sets from the pocket of his apron. The Venomous Tentacula had a penchant for stealing them so spares were necessary. Hermione snatched a pair from his hand, quite strongly reminding him of said plant, and put them on her face. 
这一次他能够提供帮助，从围裙的口袋里抽出两套。Venomous Tentacula 喜欢偷走它们，所以备用的是必不可少的。赫敏从他手里抢过一双，非常强烈地让他想起了那种植物，然后把它们戴在她的脸上。

“I feel so safe,” she said drily. “You should really make this greenhouse more helper friendly, you know.”
“我感觉很安全，”她冷淡地说。“你知道的，你真的应该让这个温室对帮手更友好。”

“You are not making a good case for that,” he murmured. 
“你没有提出一个很好的理由，”他喃喃自语道。

Rolling her eyes, Hermione turned back around and asked him if he was ready. He replied in the affirmative and she reached for the stump which immediately sprang to life. 
赫敏翻了个白眼，转过身来问他准备好了吗。“他回答说是肯定的，她伸手去摸树桩，树桩立刻就活了起来。

The thorny vines moved quickly, viciously, but Lucius grabbed as many as he could in each hand, knotting them together with enough force that the Snargaluff reluctantly opened. 
带刺的藤蔓快速而恶狠狠地移动着，但卢修斯用每只手都抓住了尽可能多的藤蔓，用足够的力气将它们打结在一起，以至于斯纳加洛夫不情愿地打开了。

Without any hesitation, Hermione rose onto her tiptoes and shoved her arm into it up to the elbow, just as Lucius stopped another vine from knotting itself in her hair. 
赫敏毫不犹豫地踮起脚尖，把她的手臂塞进去，一直到肘部，就在卢修斯阻止另一根藤蔓在她的头发上打结的时候。

“Do try to hurry up, Miss Granger. I told you not to linger,” Lucius grunted as a vine wrapped itself around his hand and attempted to tug at his glove. His forearms were covered in tiny cuts and he didn’t relish the idea of the same happening below his wrist. 
“快点吧，格兰杰小姐。我告诉过你不要逗留，“卢修斯咕哝着，一根藤蔓缠住了他的手，试图拉扯他的手套。他的前臂上布满了细小的伤口，他不喜欢手腕以下发生同样的事情。

“I’m trying,” Hermione said, her voice strained as she pulled at something within the stump. “It’s stuck.”
“我在努力，”赫敏说，她的声音在拉扯树桩里的某个东西时变得紧张。“它卡住了。”

“It can’t be stuck it—”
“不能卡住——”

Hermione yelped and managed to wrench her arm free, her shoulder smacking against Lucius' chest hard enough to knock the air out of him. 
赫敏大喊着，设法把她的手臂扭开，她的肩膀狠狠地撞在卢修斯的胸口上，足以把他的空气打得喘不过气来。

Just as she lifted the pulsing green pod on her hand with a triumphant 'ha!', the Snargaluff made an ominous retching sound. 
就在她得意洋洋地“哈”一声举起手上跳动的绿色豆荚时，斯纳加洛夫发出了不祥的干呕声。

Instinctively, Lucius leapt to the side, narrowly managing to avoid the splatter of green mucus which erupted from the centre of the Snargaluff. 
卢修斯本能地跳到一边，勉强躲过了从 Snargaluff 中心喷出的绿色粘液飞溅。

Hermione was less lucky; it went up her right arm, over her shoulder and into the ends of her hair. The Snargaluff coughed in a satisfied way and its vines immediately retracted, leaving it looking like a harmless, dead stump once more. 
赫敏就没那么幸运了;它沿着她的右臂，越过她的肩膀，一直到她的发梢。斯纳加洛夫满意地咳嗽着，它的藤蔓立即缩回，让它看起来又像一个无害的死树桩。

“ Ugh! ” Hermione cried, dropping the pod into the waiting bowl with a clatter and looking down at her mucus covered arm. 
“呃！”赫敏喊道，咔嚓一声把豆荚扔进等待的碗里，低头看着她沾满粘液的手臂。

Lucius raised a hand to his mouth but it did nothing to conceal the growing smile there. Oh, it was too perfect.
卢修斯抬起一只手捂住嘴巴，但这丝毫没有掩盖他脸上日益增长的笑容。哦，这太完美了。

Hermione looked over at him and, seeing the tell-tale crinkling of his eyes and the shake of his shoulders, her eyes narrowed. 
赫敏看着他，看到他眼中明显的皱纹和肩膀的颤抖，她的眼睛眯了起来。

“Don’t you dare,” she snapped. “Or I’ll—” 
“你不敢，”她厉声说。“或者我就——”

She raised her arm threateningly and when he realised she was preparing to fling some of the mucus in his direction he took a swift step back, his amusement snuffing out with the ease of a candle.
她威胁地举起手臂，当他意识到她正准备向他的方向扔一些粘液时，他迅速后退了一步，他的乐趣就像蜡烛一样轻松地熄灭了。

“Don’t you dare,” he growled, pointing a finger in warning. “You wanted to help, that’s what you get.”
“你不敢，”他咆哮着，用手指警告道。“你想帮忙，这就是你得到的。”

“Mucus,” Hermione said blankly, lowering her arm so that some of the mucus dripped from her fingertips onto the floor. “I get mucus for helping. You’re twisted .” 
“粘液，”赫敏茫然地说，放下手臂，让一些粘液从她的指尖滴到地板上。“我帮忙会沾满粘液。你被扭曲了。

He shrugged, not particularly inclined to disagree, and she sighed deeply, her attention drawn back to her arm. “Look, just…just pass me my wand from my bag, will you?”
他耸了耸肩，并没有特别不同意，她深深地叹了口气，她的注意力又回到了她的手臂上。“你看，只是......你就把我包里的魔杖递给我吧，好吗？

Lucius looked down in the direction she’d indicated and saw he was standing beside her satchel. Her wand was sticking out of the side so he bent down, still with a wary eye on her in case of a mucus missile, and lifted the wand. 
卢修斯低头看向她所指的方向，发现他正站在她的书包旁边。她的魔杖从侧面伸出来，所以他弯下腰，仍然警惕地看着她，以防被粘液导弹击中，然后举起了魔杖。

As soon as his fingers made contact with the smooth wood, there was a swift swoop in his stomach. It was familiar and strange, thrilling and dread-inducing. The Magic Dampener hummed threateningly around his ankle. 
当他的手指接触到光滑的木头时，他的胃里迅速地猛扑过来。它既熟悉又陌生，既惊心动魄又令人恐惧。魔法阻尼器在他的脚踝上发出威胁性的哼唱。

Gripping the wand tighter, Lucius took a sharp intake of breath as a rush of… something went up his arm, while the Magic Dampener pulsed warningly around his leg, growing unbearably hot. Taken together, the sensations crossed pleasure and pain, making him feel light-headed and physically sick. 
卢修斯把魔杖握得更紧了，猛地吸了一口气......有什么东西顺着他的手臂爬上去，而魔法阻尼器在他的腿上警告性地跳动着，变得热得难以忍受。总而言之，这些感觉跨越了快乐和痛苦，使他感到头晕目眩，身体不适。

Spying a look of alarm from Hermione, he remembered that he was holding her wand. The Magic Dampener squeezed, moving beyond threat of pain to the real thing and he hurriedly threw the wand at her like it had grown white hot. On his loss of contact with the wand, the Magic Dampener stilled and died, leaving a warm, pulsing pain to linger in his leg. 
他偷偷地从赫敏那里看到警惕的眼神，想起他正拿着她的魔杖。魔法阻尼器挤压着，超越了痛苦的威胁，变成了真正的东西，他急忙将魔杖扔向她，就像它已经变得白热一样。在他失去与魔杖的接触后，魔法阻尼器静止并死去，留下一种温暖的、搏动的疼痛在他的腿上挥之不去。

Hermione rose from her haunches, having been forced to pick up the wand, giving him a discomfited look. He wondered what his face must look like. It had all been but the work of a few seconds and yet he was breathing heavily like he’d run a long distance.
赫敏从她的臀部站起来，被迫拿起魔杖，不安地看了他一眼。他想知道自己的脸一定是什么样子。这一切都只是几秒钟的工作，但他却像跑了很长一段距离一样喘着粗气。

"Mr Malfoy, are…are you okay?"
“马尔福先生，是......你还好吗？

Lucius swallowed, flexing his hand to try and rid it of the curious, painful tingle dancing down his palm to his fingertips. “Fine," he said shortly, his throat dry. Lucius leaned his neck to one side and then the other, forcing it to crack. "Your wand, Miss Granger, what core does it use?”
卢修斯咽了口口水，弯曲他的手，试图摆脱从他的手掌到指尖跳动的奇怪、痛苦的刺痛感。“好吧，”他很快说，喉咙发干。卢修斯把脖子靠向一边，然后又靠向另一边，迫使它裂开。“你的魔杖，格兰杰小姐，它用的是什么芯子？”

“Dragon heartstring,” she said, eyes running over him apprehensively. Clearly satisfied he wasn't about to drop dead, she turned them to her arm to begin syphoning the mucus away.
“龙之心弦，”她说，眼睛忧虑地扫视着他。显然，她很满意他不会死去，于是把它们转向她的手臂，开始吸走粘液。

He hummed in response, clenching and unclenching his fist again. That had been the core of his wand, no doubt the source of the curious familiarity that he had felt when holding hers. 
他哼了一声作为回应，再次握紧又松开了拳头。那一直是他魔杖的核心，毫无疑问，这是他握着她的魔杖时感到奇怪的熟悉感的来源。

Once the mucus was gone, Hermione shoved her wand in her back pocket and hesitantly sniffed at her arm. “Oh for—” She sighed, and looked at him with pleading eyes. “Please tell me there’s a sink with some soap or something in here where I can wipe this down. It really doesn’t smell great.”
粘液消失后，赫敏把魔杖塞进后兜，犹豫地嗅了嗅她的手臂。“哦，因为——”她叹了口气，用恳求的眼神看着他。“请告诉我这里有一个水槽，里面有一些肥皂什么的，我可以在那里擦干净。它真的闻起来不太好闻。

Still occupied by the overwhelming sensation that had come with holding a wand after more than eight years, Lucius mumbled about there being a sink around the corner, pointing vaguely in the right direction. 
八年多后，卢修斯仍然被拿着魔杖带来的压倒性感觉所占据，他喃喃自语着拐角处有一个水槽，模糊地指出了正确的方向。

Hermione disappeared and once she had, Lucius rolled his ankle, feeling the weight of the Magic Dampener on his calf and the pulsing pain it had left behind. It rippled up to his knee and he winced.
赫敏消失了，她一消失，卢修斯就转动了他的脚踝，感受着魔法阻尼器在他小腿上的重量和它留下的搏动般的疼痛。它波及到他的膝盖，他畏缩了起来。

The Ministry had told him that the Magic Dampener would act if he appeared to be at risk of circumventing the terms of his imprisonment but he hadn't thought it would be quite so immediate. Or quite so painful.
魔法部告诉他，如果他看起来有规避监禁条件的风险，魔法阻尼器就会采取行动，但他没想到会这么快。或者说非常痛苦。

Really, he had only touched the wand. It wasn't even his . Lucius huffed and tugged at his collar again, this time undoing the top button.
真的，他只碰过魔杖。这甚至不是他的。卢修斯气喘吁吁地再次扯了扯他的衣领，这一次解开了顶部的纽扣。

The Ministry always did like its little cruelties, though. It revelled in its own inflexibility. He preferred when he wasn’t on this side of it. He felt drained and empty. Even vulnerable. He missed his magic more than ever. At the very least, this served to remind him why he put up with Granger—getting his wand back and getting the horrendous thing off . 
不过，魔法部总是喜欢它的小残酷。它陶醉于自己的僵化。他更喜欢自己不在这边的时候。他感到筋疲力尽，空虚。甚至脆弱。他比以往任何时候都更想念他的魔法。至少，这提醒了他为什么忍受格兰杰——拿回他的魔杖，把那个可怕的东西拿下来。

Grumbling, Lucius approached the Snargaluff pod, a slight limp in his step, and occupied himself with extracting the disgusting green tubers from within. 
卢修斯咕哝着走近斯纳加洛夫豆荚，脚步略微跛行，忙着从里面拔出那些令人作呕的绿色块茎。

Getting Granger’s help probably had been the right approach; certainly, it meant that he hadn’t had to take a faceful of Snargaluff mucus. Lucius snorted at the memory of her disgusted, angry face.
获得格兰杰的帮助可能是正确的方法;当然，这意味着他不必吃一脸 Snargaluff 的粘液。卢修斯想起她那张厌恶、愤怒的脸，哼了一声。

He couldn’t pretend he didn’t find a quiet kind of enjoyment in riling her up but having the plant do it for him was also satisfying. Low effort, high reward. She had a tendency to lash out when she was angry, to forget to moderate her tone. Witnessing it was cathartic in a way. The pink on her cheeks made him feel like he was having an impact on something, at least.
他不能假装自己在激怒她时没有找到一种安静的乐趣，但让植物为他做这件事也很令人满意。低努力，高回报。她生气时倾向于大发雷霆，忘记了缓和自己的语气。目睹这一切在某种程度上是一种宣泄。她脸颊上的粉红色让他觉得自己至少对什么产生了影响。

Frowning, Lucius looked up and then around him, turning on the spot. Granger was still gone. How long had she been gone? 
Lucius皱着眉头，抬头看了看，又环顾四周，当场转过身来。格兰杰还是走了。她走了多久了？

Wiping his hands on his apron, he hurriedly walked in the direction of the sink. The last thing he needed was for Granger to be throttled to death by his Venomous Tentacula. The Aurors would just jump straight to killing him. He was sure a few of them would seize on any minor excuse and Granger's death probably wouldn't be considered minor by most.
他用围裙擦了擦手，急忙朝水槽的方向走去。他最不需要的就是让格兰杰被他的毒触手掐死。傲罗们会直接跳起来杀了他。他确信他们中的一些人会抓住任何一个小借口，而格兰杰的死可能不会被大多数人认为是小事。

Rounding the corner, Lucius exhaled in relief as he heard the sound of running water and distracted humming. She was alive. Utterly incapable of carrying a tune but alive. Pushing an overhanging leaf to the side, his eyes landed on her and his purposeful stride stuttered and halted. Granger was standing at his sink, her back to him, wiping her shoulder down with a damp rag. 
绕过拐角，卢修斯听到流水的声音和分心的嗡嗡声，松了一口气。她还活着。完全无法承载一首曲子，但还活着。他把一片悬垂的叶子推到一边，目光落在她身上，他坚定的步伐结结巴巴地停了下来。格兰杰站在他的水槽旁，背对着他，用湿抹布擦着她的肩膀。

The strap of her top had been lowered to loop her arm, her hair draped over the opposite shoulder. She held the rag under the running water briefly and swiped it across the bar of lemon soap sitting by the tap before she scrubbed at her skin. 
她上衣的带子被放低以环绕她的手臂，她的头发垂在对面的肩膀上。她把抹布放在流水下短暂地滑过，在水龙头旁的柠檬皂上擦过，然后擦洗自己的皮肤。

Lucius frowned and politely looked to the side as she lifted the strap of her top back into place. 
卢修斯皱着眉头，礼貌地看向一边，同时将上衣的带子拉回原位。

It wasn’t really appropriate for him to be watching her when she didn’t know he was there. Admittedly, she was only wiping her shoulder –  hardly a salacious display – but it made him feel uncomfortable; like he was intruding on her privacy.
当她不知道他在那儿时，他看着她真的不太合适。诚然，她只是在擦她的肩膀——算不上什么淫秽的展示——但这让他感到不舒服;就像他侵犯了她的隐私一样。

He was opening his mouth to tell her to hurry up when she gathered the ends of her hair and bent at the waist over the sink to hold them under the water. 
他正张开嘴告诉她快点，这时她捡起发梢，弯下腰在水槽上把它们放在水下。

Lucius’ eyes drifted back over to her and trailed up the length of her legs to the wand that was sticking out the back pocket of her shorts. Slowly he closed his mouth, swallowing his words and struggling to find new ones.
卢修斯的目光又回到她身上，沿着她的双腿一直滑到从她短裤后袋伸出的魔杖上。他慢慢地闭上了嘴，吞下了他的话，努力寻找新的词。

Reaching up, she turned off the tap and straightened up, turning before Lucius could leave. As he came into her line of vision she started, backing up into the sink in her surprise. "Oh! Mr Malfoy, I was just–"
她伸手关掉了水龙头，直起身来，在Lucius离开之前转身。当他进入她的视线时，她开始了，惊讶地向水槽里倒退。“哦！马尔福先生，我只是——”

"Taking an eternity?" 
“需要永恒？”

"–finishing up." 
“——结束了。”

Hermione flushed with annoyance as she heard what he said. Her hair was still wet at the ends and Lucius spied droplets of water running over her clavicle, leaving a damp, glistening trail.
赫敏听到他说的话，恼火地涨红了脸。她的头发发梢仍然湿漉漉的，卢修斯发现水滴流过她的锁骨，留下了一条潮湿、闪闪发光的痕迹。

"I was gone for five minutes," she said. 
“我走了五分钟，”她说。

"Five minutes of my time," came his stiff response. "It's not yours to waste."
“我有五分钟的时间，”他生硬地回答。“这不是你的浪费。”

A disbelieving scoff escaped her mouth as she marched towards and then past him, returning in the direction of the work table. 
她不敢置信地嘲笑着，走向他，然后越过他，朝着工作台的方向走去。

"I hardly think you'd want me trailing Snargaluff mucus into your precious manor."
“我几乎不认为你会希望我拖着 Snargaluff 的粘液进入你珍贵的庄园。”

Lucius rolled his eyes and followed her, pulling his apron over his head and folding it as he went. It would be too easy to tell her that he’d rather have a thousand mucus-spitting Snargaluffs in his home than her. He was more creative than that. 
卢修斯翻了个白眼，跟着她，把围裙拉到头上，边走边折叠。告诉她他宁愿家里有一千个吐着粘液的 Snargaluffs，也不愿让她来，这太容易了。他比那更有创造力。

"Would you?" she asked over her shoulder, yanking her cardigan out from where she'd unceremoniously stuffed it in the workbench. 
“你愿意吗？”她转过头问道，从她毫不客气地塞在工作台上的地方扯出她的羊毛衫。

Lucius didn’t deign to answer as he pointedly, carefully placed his neatly folded apron back in its slot. 
卢修斯没有屈尊回答，他小心翼翼地将他折叠整齐的围裙放回了插槽中。

"Didn't think so," she said in response to his silence. 
“我不这么认为，”她回应他的沉默说。

Exhaling sharply through his nose, Lucius straightened up to ask her if she could, for once in her life, shut up when he spied the cardigan folded over her forearm. Two drops of water from the ends of her hair landed on it. The rest continued to glisten on her skin.
卢修斯从鼻子里猛地呼出一口气，直起身来问她，当他看到折叠在她前臂上的羊毛衫时，她是否可以闭嘴，这是她这辈子的第一次。两滴水从她的发梢落在上面。其余的继续在她的皮肤上闪闪发光。

“Aren’t you putting that on?”
“你不是戴上了吗？”

Hermione frowned, following the direction of his gaze before glancing up at him from under her brow. “Well, it’s warm in here and my hair is still a bit wet." She lifted a strand to show him. “So I'll just leave it for now.”
赫敏皱起眉头，顺着他的目光方向看去，然后从眉毛下抬头看了他一眼。“嗯，这里很暖和，我的头发还是有点湿。”她掀起一根绳子给他看。“所以我现在就先不说了。”

“Are you a witch or not?”
“你是不是女巫？”

Turning her head to eye him apprehensively, she said, “Er, yes?”
她转过头来，忧心忐忡地看着他，说：“呃，是吗？

“Then why can’t you just dry your hair with a spell?” he asked impatiently. Honestly, here he was standing here lamenting the loss of his magic and she wouldn't even use hers. She would rather stand there damp and half-dressed.
“那你为什么不能用咒语把头发吹干呢？”老实说，他站在这里哀叹失去了他的魔法，而她甚至不会使用她的魔法。她宁愿浑身湿漉漉、衣衫褴褛地站在那里。

“They all make it really frizzy.” Seeing his sceptical look she crossed her arms, folding the cardigan between them. “Yes, it can get frizzier.”
“他们都让它变得非常毛躁。”看到他怀疑的眼神，她交叉双臂，将开衫折叠起来。“是的，它会变得更毛躁。”

Lucius sighed and rolled his neck back to look up at the blue sky through the roof of the greenhouse. Nope, no patience up there either. “Try ‘Sericum’,” he muttered. 
卢修斯叹了口气，把脖子向后转，透过温室的屋顶仰望着蓝天。不，那里也没有耐心。“试试'Sericum'，”他咕哝道。

Hermione mouthed the word quizzically and shook her head. “I haven’t—”
赫敏疑惑地说了这个词，摇了摇头。“我没有——”

“It’s a drying charm,” he snapped, bringing his head back down. “Just try it.” 
“这是个干燥的咒语，”他厉声说，把头低了下来。“试试吧。”

Looking at him askance, Hermione slowly withdrew her wand from her back pocket and paused, the expectation of instruction clear on her face.
赫敏疑惑地看着他，慢慢地从后兜里掏出魔杖，停顿了一下，脸上露出对指示的期待。

“Drag the wand downwards in a smoothing motion as you say the spell,” he directed. “Like you’re brushing your hair.” 
“当你说出咒语时，以平滑的动作将魔杖向下拖动，”他指示道。“就像你在梳头一样。”

Following his guidance exactly, Hermione cast the spell and looked at the ends of her hair in wonder, her mouth slightly agape. Her curls were smooth and shiny, the blonde he'd noticed earlier running through them like melted caramel.
赫敏完全按照他的指引施展了咒语，惊奇地看着她的发梢，她的嘴巴微微张大。她的卷发光滑有光泽，他之前注意到的金发像融化的焦糖一样穿过它们。

“How did you—?” She cut herself off when she looked at him and he saw her eyes scan his hair. A small, knowing smile pulled at the corners of her lips. “Never mind.”
“你怎么——？”当她看着他时，她打断了自己，他看到她的眼睛扫视着他的头发。她的嘴角勾起一丝会心的微笑。“算了。”

Lucius grit his teeth, a muscle twitching in his jaw. “Do not share that spell.”
卢修斯咬紧牙关，下巴的肌肉抽搐着。“不要分享那个咒语。”

“Oh, I won’t,” Hermione said, her smile widening into a beaming grin as she pulled her cardigan back over her shoulders. “You can trust me, you know that. I'm discreet .” 
“哦，我不会的，”赫敏说，当她把开衫拉回肩膀上时，她的笑容灿烂成灿烂的笑容。“你可以相信我，你知道的。我很谨慎。

“Just get your bag, Miss Granger, and let’s go.”
“拿你的包吧，格兰杰小姐，我们走吧。”

“Who casts that spell for you now you can’t use your magic?” she asked slyly, pulling her bag up onto her shoulder. “Is it Draco?”
“现在你不能使用魔法了，谁为你施放了那个咒语？”她狡猾地问道，把包拉到肩上。“是德拉科吗？”

“Do shut up .”
“闭嘴。”

“Our last meeting didn’t go quite according to plan,” Hermione said once they were settled in his study in their usual places. The Wheezebox was recording and her Quick Quotes Quill was in motion. 
“我们上次的会议并没有完全按计划进行，”赫敏在他们平常的书房里安顿下来后说。Wheezebox 正在录音，她的 Quick Quotes Quill 正在移动。

“I believe you rather dominated the conversation as you are so wont to do," Lucius replied with a long-suffering expression.
“我相信你宁愿像你那样主导了谈话，”卢修斯用一种长期忍耐的表情回答。

“I said things you needed to hear.”
“我说了你需要听的话。”

“No, you said things you needed to say, Miss Granger. The difference is vast.”
“不，你说了你该说的话，格兰杰小姐。差异是巨大的。

Hermione drew in a deep breath, her shoulders rising, and then let it go slowly, placing her hands in her lap. 
赫敏深吸一口气，肩膀抬起，然后慢慢地放开，双手放在膝盖上。

“Are you struggling to breathe?” Lucius drawled, glancing uninterestedly down at his nails. "Because I should warn you, I don't think the mediwizards from St Mungo's would be tripping over themselves to get to this address. And I certainly won’t be helping."
“你呼吸困难吗？”卢修斯抽了抽身子，不感兴趣地低头瞥了一眼他的指甲。“因为我应该警告你，我不认为圣芒戈的医疗巫师会为了到达这个地址而绊倒自己。我当然不会帮忙。

“No,” she snapped. “I’m taking a moment before replying.”
“不，”她厉声说。“我先花点时间再回答。”

“Ah, so you are struggling for control . I don’t know why I didn’t come to that conclusion first.”
“啊，所以你在为控制权而挣扎。”我不知道为什么我没有先得出那个结论。

“Stop poking at me,” Hermione said, crossing her arms defensively. “I helped you today. The least you could do is not be such an…an arse .” 
“别戳我了，”赫敏说，防御性地交叉着双臂。“我今天帮了你。你至少能做的就是不要成为这样的......一个屁股。

“I did not ask for your help,” Lucius hissed, leaning forward and placing his arms on the desk. Her gaze flicked down to his forearms and she spied the small cuts that the Snargaluff had peppered along them. 
“我没有找你帮忙，”卢修斯嘶嘶地说道，身体前倾，双臂放在桌子上。她的目光扫向他的前臂，她注意到了斯纳加洛夫在他们身上留下的小伤口。

“Do you need some essence of Murtlap?” she asked, pointing. “For those. Which, might I add, would have been much worse had I not been there.”
“你需要一些 Murtlap 的精华吗？”“为了那些。我还要补充一点，如果我没有在那儿，情况会更糟。

“No,” he replied through gritted teeth. They stung but barely. He’d experienced far worse and he would never give her the satisfaction. 
“没有，”他咬牙切齿地回答。他们刺痛了，但几乎没有。他经历过更糟糕的事情，他永远不会给她满意。

“If anyone ever tries to tell me that I’m stubborn again, I will point them in your direction for an example of what that truly is.”
“如果有人试图告诉我我又很固执，我会给他们指出你的方向，让他们知道那到底是什么。”

“Just get on with it, Miss Granger.”
“继续吧，格兰杰小姐。”

“That’s what I was trying to—” Hermione broke off and lowered her head with her eyes closed. When she looked up a moment later he found her expression was unexpectedly serene. “What were you doing in the greenhouse anyway?”
“这就是我想要的——”赫敏打断了她的话，闭着眼睛低下了头。片刻后，当她抬起头时，他发现她的表情出乎意料地平静。“你到底在温室里做什么？”

“And this is relevant to where we left off…how?”
“这与我们上次中断的地方有关......怎么做到的？

“Just answer the question, Malfoy.”
“就回答这个问题吧，马尔福。”

His jaw jutted to the side and he lifted the tip of his tongue to the roof of his mouth as he leaned back in his chair. “I grow ingredients for Draco’s potions in the greenhouses. Herbology is one of the few ways I can still interact with magic as it so rarely requires a wand.”
他的下巴向一侧突出，他向后靠在椅子上，将舌尖抬到上颚。“我在温室里种植了 Draco 的魔药原料。草药学是我仍然可以与魔法互动的少数方式之一，因为它很少需要魔杖。

Hermione recalled Draco telling her that his father supported his potion making in his own way and nodded in understanding. “Don’t you think Draco should help you? Particularly in situations like that.”
赫敏记得德拉科告诉她，他爸爸以自己的方式支持他的魔药制作，并点头表示理解。“你不觉得德拉科应该帮你吗？尤其是在这样的情况下。

“I do not want him to,” Lucius said shortly. “Just as I did not want you to. Moving on, Miss Granger.”
“我不想让他这样做，”卢修斯很快说。“就像我不希望你这样做一样。继续前进，格兰杰小姐。

Hermione clamped her jaw tight and exhaled through her nose. “Right, so, from last time; you had left Hogwarts and you didn’t need to work so you were free to serve Voldemort. You rose through his ranks and I imagine he was pleased by the recruits that followed you out of the school?”
赫敏紧紧地夹住下巴，用鼻子呼气。“对，所以，从上次开始;你已经离开了霍格沃茨，你不需要工作，所以你可以自由地为伏地魔服务。你是一路升迁的，我想他对那些跟着你走出学校的新兵感到高兴吧？

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“I sometimes wonder: were you all there for the same reasons? Did everyone believe like you?”
“我有时在想：你们都是出于同样的原因吗？大家都像你一样相信吗？

“We did not often discuss our motivations, Miss Granger. In the earliest days we were barely allowed to speak without the Dark Lord present and our masks made it hard to be certain about the identities of our fellows.”
“我们不常讨论我们的动机，格兰杰小姐。在最初的日子里，如果没有黑魔王在场，我们几乎不被允许说话，而且我们的面具让我们很难确定我们同伴的身份。

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“It stopped us forming loyalties in-rank. We were supposed to be there for him and no one else.”
“它阻止了我们在级别上形成忠诚度。我们应该在他身边，而不是其他人。

“But surely, in time, you must have come to know other Death Eaters.”
“但可以肯定的是，随着时间的推移，你一定已经了解了其他食死徒。”

He inclined his head in reluctant acknowledgement. “Enough to betray their names to the Aurors,” Hermione added pointedly. He raised an eyebrow and leaned his head back to study her. 
他不情愿地歪着头承认。“足以把他们的名字出卖给傲罗，”赫敏尖锐地补充道。他扬起眉毛，把头向后仰，打量着她。

“Now who’s poking?” he asked. 
“现在谁在戳？”

A small smile flickered on Hermione’s lips but she quickly flattened it. Lucius raised his fist under his chin and leaned the weight of his head on it. “But you're right. In both senses. I came to know some of my fellow Death Eaters and no, we were not all there for the same reasons.”
赫敏的嘴唇上闪过一丝微笑，但她很快就把它压平了。卢修斯将拳头举到下巴下，将头的重量靠在上面。“但你是对的。在这两种意义上都是如此。我认识了一些食死徒同伴，不，我们并不是因为同样的原因而去那里。

“Can you tell me some of them?”
“你能告诉我其中的一些吗？”

“And here I thought you came here with the intent of discovering everything there is to know about me . Not enough for you, am I?”
“我以为你来到这里是为了发现关于我的一切。对你来说还不够，对吧？

Hermione fixed him with an impatient, narrow-eyed look that raised a smirk to his lips. “Very well.” He sighed and lifted his head to lean it against the back of his chair, his eyes directed towards the ceiling. 
赫敏用不耐烦的、眯起的眼睛盯着他，嘴角扬起一丝得意的笑容。“很好。”他叹了口气，抬起头靠在椅背上，眼睛直视着天花板。

“Some, like me, believed in ‘the cause’, as we called it. Some…well, some were afraid of the Dark Lord and so scurried towards him in the hope that would spare them.”
“有些人，比如我，相信我们所说的'事业'。一些。。。嗯，有些人害怕黑魔王，所以急忙向他跑来，希望能饶过他们。

 He was counting off the reasons on his fingers, still not looking at her. 
他用手指头数着原因，仍然没有看她。

“Others respected his power and hoped he would share it. Some were simply rather violent and appreciated that the Dark Lord encouraged their proclivities. And many were outcasts who hated the Ministry and wanted to watch the world burn so that they could remake it anew.”
“其他人尊重他的权力，希望他能分享它。有些人只是相当暴力，并感谢黑魔王鼓励他们的癖好。许多人是被抛弃的人，他们憎恨魔法部，想看着世界燃烧，这样他们就可以重新塑造它。

 He raised his head and gave her a tight smile. “Satisfied?”
他抬起头，对她露出一个紧绷的笑容。“满意吗？”

“Outcasts,” Hermione repeated, the doubt heavy in her voice. Voldemort’s limited view of who should be allowed to wield magic did not, from her perspective, leave much room for outcasts.
“被抛弃的人，”赫敏重复道，她的声音里带着沉重的疑惑。在她看来，伏地魔对谁应该被允许使用魔法的有限看法并没有给被抛弃的人留下太多空间。

“Miss Granger, the Dark Lord promised a new world. Do you know how appealing that is as a concept to those for whom the current world does not work? Giants were relegated to their settlements; werewolves ostracised from society; and Dementors were never particularly keen on employment. The Dark Lord vowed to give them a place and they thought him ruthless enough to carve it out.”
“格兰杰小姐，黑魔王承诺了一个新世界。你知道这个概念对那些当前世界不起作用的人来说是多么有吸引力吗？巨人被降级到他们的定居点;被社会排斥的狼人;摄魂怪从来都不是特别热衷于就业。黑魔王发誓要给他们一个位置，他们认为他无情到可以把它瓜分出去。

“But he deplored non-wizards! He was just using them,” Hermione burst out angrily. 
“可是他可怜非巫师！他只是在利用它们，“赫敏生气地爆发。

Lucius raised a finger with a quiet “ah ah” to halt her. “Whether or not he was actually going to do as he said is another matter but the promise was enough for them. Desperation is an excellent motivator. At least, I’ve always found that.”
卢修斯抬起一根手指，轻声地“啊啊”一声阻止了她。“他是否真的会按照他说的去做是另一回事，但这个承诺对他们来说已经足够了。绝望是一个很好的动力。至少，我一直都觉得这样。

He seemed somewhat amused by her simmering anger and pouted at her condescendingly. “So enraged on their behalf when they would have torn you limb from limb, given half the chance. Didn’t anyone ever tell you to be wary of monsters, Miss Granger?”
他似乎被她酝酿的怒火逗乐了，居高临下地朝她撅起嘴。“当他们给一半的机会，就把你撕成碎片，真是太生气了。难道没有人告诉你要小心怪物吗，格兰杰小姐？

Hermione pursed her lips. "They're not 'monsters'," she said. "Wizards treating them like they are is part of the problem." She paused thoughtfully, her lips pursed. Except the Dementors,” she added. “Awful things.”
赫敏抿了抿嘴唇。“他们不是'怪物'，”她说。“巫师像对待他们一样对待他们是问题的一部分。”她若有所思地停顿了一下，抿起了嘴唇。除了摄魂怪，“她补充道。“可怕的事情。”

“Quite,” Malfoy concurred quietly, contemplatively. His gaze was piercing enough to make Hermione look down into her lap for some relief from it. “Have you always been so…intent on finding the good in others, Miss Granger?”
“没错，”马尔福平静地、沉思着地同意道。他的目光锐利到足以让赫敏低头看向她的腿，以寻求一些缓解。“你一直都是这样......打算在别人身上找到优点，格兰杰小姐？

Hermione shifted in her seat and her eyes flicked up to his to find his gaze was still unwavering. He wasn’t really supposed to ask her personal questions – that wasn’t how the interviews worked. Her tongue darted out to wet her lips as she considered him. “I like to find it when it’s there to be found.”
赫敏在座位上动了动，她的眼睛瞥向他，发现他的目光仍然坚定不移。他真的不应该问她的私人问题——那不是采访的运作方式。她伸出舌头打湿了她的嘴唇，同时她打量着他。“我喜欢在它在那里被发现的时候找到它。”

“That suggests you think it isn’t in everyone to be found,” he said softly. “Is my understanding correct?”
“那说明你觉得不是每个人都能找到它，”他轻声说。“我的理解正确吗？”

Hermione frowned, drawing both of her hands into fists in her lap so that she felt her fingernails dig into her palms – she didn’t like the idea of that. That wasn’t what she thought. Was it? “I don’t know.” Lucius raised his eyebrows to hear her admit such a thing. “Maybe goodness is just harder to find in some than in others.”
赫敏皱起眉头，双手握成拳头放在膝盖上，这样她就能感觉到指甲深深地扎进了她的手掌——她不喜欢这种想法。她不是这么想的。是吗？“我不知道。”卢修斯扬起眉毛，听她承认了这样的事情。“也许有些人比其他人更难找到善良。”

“I’m surprised you don’t think yourself capable of manifesting it in others.”
“我很惊讶你不认为自己有能力在别人身上表现出来。”

The overt mockery in his words drew Hermione’s brow low in a frown. “I’m not sure that’s how it works.”
他话语中明显的嘲讽使赫敏皱起了眉头。“我不确定它是怎么运作的。”

“And how do you think it works?” The mockery was suddenly absent, as though he might genuinely want to hear her perspective. For some reason, this irritated Hermione more. Perhaps, in part, because while she had definitive answers for many things, how being good worked was not one of them.
“那你觉得它怎么运作？”嘲讽突然消失了，仿佛他可能真的想听听她的观点。不知为何，这让赫敏更加恼火了。也许，部分原因是虽然她对很多事情都有明确的答案，但好是如何运作并不是其中之一。

“Well,” she said, falteringly. “It’s all choices, isn’t it? We tend to make those ourselves.”
“嗯，”她踌躇不安地说。“这都是选择，不是吗？我们倾向于自己制作这些。

Lucius’ responding smile was mild but his eyes were probing. “Mmm, we must all make choices.” He nodded slowly. “Of course, sometimes the challenge lies in identifying when we’re making them, doesn’t it? Or even recognising that we have them.” 
卢修斯回应的笑容很温和，但他的眼睛却在探查。“嗯，我们都必须做出选择。”他缓缓地点了点头。“当然，有时挑战在于确定我们何时制作它们，不是吗？甚至认识到我们拥有它们。

Lucius’ smile dimmed as Hermione tilted her head, her warm eyes thoughtful as they inspected him. 
当赫敏歪着头时，卢修斯的笑容变得黯淡，她温暖的眼睛在打量他时若有所思。

"Are you trying to tell me that was your experience, Mr Malfoy?"
“你是想告诉我那是你的经历吗，马尔福先生？”

"No," he said tightly. "I am merely pointing out that just because you describe something with reductive simplicity does not mean that it is, in fact, simple.”
“不，”他紧紧地说。“我只是指出，仅仅因为你用简化的简单性来描述某件事，并不意味着它实际上很简单。”

“I didn’t—”
“我没有——”

"Perhaps consider that making choices is not always simply a matter of putting one foot in front of the other in an act of repetitious clarity," he said. "Sometimes it is descending a staircase in the dead of night, unable to see beyond your own hands. Sometimes you think you know exactly where the next step is until your heel just clips its edge and you fall, unable to grab ahold of anything except a faint hope that you will still be alive when you land."
“也许可以考虑一下，做出选择并不总是简单地将一只脚放在另一只脚前面，以重复的清晰行为，”他说。“有时是在夜深人静的时候从楼梯上下来，无法看到自己的双手以外的东西。有时你认为你确切地知道下一步在哪里，直到你的脚后跟夹住了边缘，你摔倒了，什么都抓不住，只能微弱地希望着陆时你还活着。

Hermione opened her mouth, drawing in a sharp breath as though intending to snap at him. But she didn't. Instead she stopped, exhaling quietly through her nose. That was a very specific metaphor offered up with an unusual degree of emotiveness.
赫敏张开嘴，猛地吸了一口气，仿佛打算对他发脾气。但她没有。相反，她停了下来，用鼻子轻声呼气。这是一个非常具体的比喻，以不同寻常的情感程度提供。

“Carry on with your questions, Miss Granger," Malfoy said, waving a hand, his voice quiet and irate. "I have dragged us off track.”
“继续你的问题，格兰杰小姐，”马尔福说，挥了挥手，他的声音平静而愤怒。“我把我们拖离了轨道。”

"I think I'd actually rather dig a little further into what you just said, Mr Malfoy."
“我想我其实更愿意更深入地研究你刚才说的话，马尔福先生。”

"I would not."
“我不会。”

"Then why did you say it?" she asked, her voice rising with impatience again. Impossible man .
“那你为什么这么说呢？” 她问道，她的声音又因不耐烦而提高了。 不可能的人。

"Because you needed to hear it," he said, levelling her with a steady gaze and the weight of her own words.
“因为你需要听到它，”他说，用坚定的目光和她自己话语的重量来平定她。

There was a tense pause in which Hermione closed her eyes tight, her lips pressed thin and her heart thumping. Why couldn't he just be straightforward? Why did he have to make everything a struggle? Why he just assume the choices she had made were easy? Why did he –
赫敏紧紧地闭上了眼睛，嘴唇紧紧地抿着，心砰砰直跳。为什么他不能直截了当呢？为什么他必须让一切都变得艰难呢？为什么他只是认为她所做的选择很容易？他为什么——

"Are you actually going to carry on?" His drawling voice broke into her internal tirade. "Or are you granting me the small mercy of finishing early?" 
“你真的要继续吗？”他拖沓的声音打破了她内心的长篇大论。“还是你给了我提前完成的小小怜悯？”

Clearing her throat, Hermione opened her eyes to glower at him. He was inspecting the small cuts on his arms. One of them had started to bleed lightly and he wiped it with his thumb, smearing a faint red streak over the pale skin of his forearm. Hermione sighed, some of her anger leaving her.
清了清嗓子，赫敏睁开眼睛瞪着他。他正在检查自己手臂上的小伤口。其中一个已经开始轻微流血，他用拇指擦了擦，在他前臂苍白的皮肤上涂抹了一条淡淡的红色条纹。赫敏叹了口气，她的一些愤怒离开了她。

"Please let me help you heal those."
“请让我帮你治愈那些。”

"Please just continue , Miss Granger," he said, glancing up at her with impatient eyes. He lifted his thumb absently to his mouth and sucked the streak of blood from it. Hermione's eyes were drawn to his mouth as he drew his thumb away from it. Was it the blood or had his lips always been quite red? His tongue flicked out, wetting his lips, before he said, "I won't tell you again."
“请继续，格兰杰小姐，”他说，用不耐烦的眼神抬头瞥了她一眼。他心不在焉地把拇指举到嘴边，吸吮着拇指上的血迹。赫敏的眼睛被吸引到他的嘴上，同时他把拇指从嘴上抽了出来。是血还是他的嘴唇一直很红？他的舌头伸了出来，弄湿了他的嘴唇，然后他说，“我不会再告诉你了。

“Fine," Hermione said, dragging her eyes away from his mouth with a defeated sigh. "Fine, let's just…" She cast around, trying to find a thread of questioning she could grab onto while he bent his head, attention back on his arm. "I’m assuming you…got married around the time of your formal entry into the Death Eaters?” 
“好吧，”赫敏说，把眼睛从他的嘴里拖开，沮丧地叹了口气。“好吧，我们就......”她四处张望，试图找到一丝可以抓住的提问线索，而他则低下了头，注意力又回到了他的手臂上。“我假设你......在你正式加入食死徒的时候结婚了？

As soon as she asked the question, Hermione internally cringed when she saw his head slowly rise, his lips forming a thin line. “You don’t have to talk about that if you’d rather not,” she added hurriedly. 
她一问这个问题，赫敏看到他的头慢慢抬起，嘴唇形成一条细线，内心就畏缩了起来。“如果你愿意的话，你就不必谈论这个，”她急忙补充道。

Lucius studied her for a moment and then exhaled softly, lowering his arms to his desk. “No," he said. "I think you and I have rather gotten past that particular point of reticence. Yes, I married Narcissa relatively early in my time with the Death Eaters.”
卢修斯端详了她一会儿，然后轻轻地呼出一口气，将手臂垂到桌子上。“不，”他说。“我想你和我都已经越过了那个特定的沉默点。是的，我在与食死徒在一起的时候就嫁给了纳西莎。

“What age were you?”
“你几岁了？”

“I was 22, she had just turned 21.”
“我当时 22 岁，她刚满 21 岁。”

“I assume, based on the book you ‘encouraged’ me to read, that it was arranged?”
“我猜，根据你'鼓励'我读的那本书，它是被安排好的？”

“Yes. My father had organised the contract with the Blacks before his death and it was one of his few final wishes that I was willing to see through. Narcissa and I knew of one another from Hogwarts, of course. We knew we were to be wed and we liked one another well enough.”
“是的。我父亲在去世前与布莱克队签订了合同，这是我愿意实现的他为数不多的遗愿之一。当然，纳西莎和我在霍格沃茨就认识了。我们知道我们要结婚了，我们很喜欢彼此。

“Did you have any say in the matter?”
“你对这件事有什么发言权吗？”

“No,” he said with a careless shrug. “But I didn’t particularly care to. I believe I was originally supposed to be married to the middle Black daughter, Andromeda, but of course she ran off with that Mudblood—” 
“不，”他漫不经心地耸耸肩说。“但我并不是特别在乎。我相信我本来应该嫁给中间的黑人女儿，仙女座，但她当然带着那个泥巴种跑了——”

His eyes met Hermione's as ‘Mudblood’ left his lips and he faltered, as though anticipating that she was going to tell him off. Instead, Hermione raised her eyebrows expectantly, inviting him to carry on, and he quietly cleared his throat, a small frown creasing his forehead. “...She ran off. I knew it was going to happen regardless of my input.”
当“泥巴种”离开他的嘴唇时，他的目光与赫敏的目光相遇，他颤抖着，仿佛预料到她会告发他。相反，赫敏期待地扬起眉毛，邀请他继续，他悄悄地清了清嗓子，额头上皱起了小皱眉。“...她跑掉了。我知道无论我的意见如何，它都会发生。

“Didn’t that bother you, though?”
“不过，你不介意吗？”

“Miss Granger…” he trailed off looking exasperated. “ No . Why would it? I didn’t know any different.”
“格兰杰小姐......”他一脸恼怒地走开了。“ 不 .为什么会这样呢？我不知道有什么不同。

“But surely you saw different kinds of relationships at Hogwarts. Didn’t you ever think about one of those?”
“但你肯定在霍格沃茨看到了各种各样的关系。你从来没有想过其中之一吗？

“I’m afraid I was far more fixated on other things. Things that weren’t as trivial as relationships that could never last. If anything, having Narcissa preparing to be my wife was…” he winced and rolled his eyes, “somewhat convenient.”
“恐怕我更专注于其他事情。这些事情不像永远不会持久的关系那样微不足道。如果有的话，让 Narcissa 准备成为我的妻子就是......”他皱起眉头，翻了个白眼，“有点方便。

“How romantic.”
“多么浪漫。”

“Pure-blood marriages are not based on romance; they are transactions. You of all people obviously know that after your little diatribe in the grounds.” Hermione looked grim but far from embarrassed. “But I came to love her. Sincerely, in my own way. Partly that was because of who she was as a person but it was also because I had already decided that I would respect and cherish my wife, whoever she ended up being.” 
“纯血统婚姻不是基于浪漫;它们是交易。 在你那小小的谩骂之后，你显然知道这一点。赫敏看起来严肃起来，但一点也不尴尬。“但我开始爱她。真诚地，以我自己的方式。部分原因是她作为一个人，但也因为我已经决定要尊重和珍惜我的妻子，无论她最终成为谁。

Hermione sat back, her head tilted as she took him in. His gaze was unfocused and she found herself wishing she'd included a Pensieve in their interviews, so keen was she to see whatever was passing through his head. 
赫敏坐回去，歪着头把他带进去。他的目光没有聚焦，她发现自己希望自己在他们的采访中包括一个 Pensieve，她是如此热衷于看到他脑海中闪过的一切。

It seemed he had decided from a young age exactly what kind of wizard he was going to be and had spent his life building towards it. He struck her as very…structured. Perhaps overly so. To the point of being brittle? For all his efforts, everything had shattered. Hermione wasn't sorry that it had – where would she be if everything had worked out as he’d wanted it?
他似乎从很小的时候就决定了他要成为什么样的巫师，并为此付出了一生的努力。他觉得她非常......结构。也许有点过分了。到了脆的地步？尽管他付出了所有努力，但一切都碎了。赫敏并不为此感到遗憾——如果一切都按照他的意愿进行，她会在哪里呢？

“Did respecting and cherishing your wife affect your work with the Dark Lord?”
“尊重和珍惜你的妻子是否影响了你与黑魔王的工作？”

“ Well .” Lucius came back into himself and he fixed her with a rather tired look. “As much as Narcissa, like myself, agreed with the Dark Lord’s views on Pure-bloods and our society, she had no interest in following her sister into the Death Eaters.” 
“嗯。”卢修斯回过神来，用一种相当疲惫的眼神注视着她。“尽管纳西莎和我一样，都同意黑魔王对纯血统和我们社会的看法，但她没有兴趣跟着她的姐姐加入食死徒。”

He paused and rested his left hand on the desk, drumming his fingers and drawing Hermione’s eyes to the rings there. He’d never been wearing a wedding ring, she suddenly realised, and she’d never noticed it.
他停了下来，把左手放在桌子上，敲打着手指，把赫敏的眼睛吸引到那里的戒指上。他从来没有戴过结婚戒指，她突然意识到，而且她从来没有注意到。

“She never really explained why . I remember her once feeding me a line that she had sworn loyalty to only one man and she would stand by that.” He smiled and there was a sadness in it that made Hermione feel… weird . Like she’d seen something she shouldn’t have. “But I don’t know the real reason. Perhaps she knew something I didn’t.”
“她从来没有真正解释过为什么。我记得她曾经给我说过一句话，她发誓只效忠一个男人，她会坚持下去。他笑了笑，里面有一种悲伤，让赫敏觉得......奇怪。就像她看到了不该看到的东西。“但我不知道真正的原因。也许她知道一些我不知道的事情。

“Did Voldemort try to recruit her?”
“伏地魔有没有想招募她？”

“Of course. She’s a talented witch. But she refused and I stood by her. The Dark Lord didn’t look particularly kindly on that. Certainly, he took note. A line was drawn that day, I believe.” 
“当然。她是一个有才华的女巫。但她拒绝了，我站在她身边。黑魔王对此并不特别友好。当然，他注意到了。我相信那天划定了一条线。

“What was the line?”
“那是什么线？”

“For me,” Lucius said, raising an indicative hand to his chest, “it was a line between the Dark Lord and my family. I placed myself on it, separating him from them. For him…I think it was the line marking the limit of my loyalty to him. I’d never had one before. He didn’t tend to like them.”
“对我来说，”卢修斯说，将一只手举到他的胸前，“这是黑魔王和我家人之间的一条线。我把自己放在上面，把他和他们分开。对他来说......我认为这是标志着我对他的忠诚极限的界限。我以前从来没有过。他不太喜欢他们。

“I suppose that line only became more distinct when your son was born. 1980, wasn’t it?”
“我想，当你的儿子出生时，这条界限才变得更加明显。1980 年，不是吗？

“Yes.” He nodded. “Narcissa could spout about loyalty to only one man but if it ever was me that changed when Draco was born. As I would have expected.”
“是的。”他点点头。“纳西莎可以滔滔不绝地谈论对一个男人的忠诚，但如果真的是我的话，当德拉科出生时，情况发生了变化。正如我所料。

He seemed barely aware of the softness that had taken residence on his face. Weirdly human , Hermione thought with a twinge of discomfort. He loved his son, she could tell. He loved him as more than an heir or a vessel for the family name. 
他似乎几乎没意识到自己脸上的柔软。 奇怪的人类，赫敏带着一丝不适想着。她看得出来，他爱他的儿子。他爱他，而不是一个继承人或家族的容器。

For a time, even during their interviews, she had thought Draco’s insistent loyalty to his father foolish and misguided. It was possible there was more to their relationship than she had thought. More than she could ever really understand.
有一段时间，甚至在他们的采访中，她都认为德拉科对他父亲的执着忠诚是愚蠢和误导的。他们的关系可能比她想象的要多。比她真正理解的要多。

“Something else happened in 1980, though.” Lucius frowned and Hermione elaborated: “The prophecy.”
“不过，1980 年还发生了另一件事。”卢修斯皱起眉头，赫敏解释道：“预言。

Lucius’ eyes rolled to the ceiling and he leaned both of his elbows on the arms of his chair, sinking down in a way that was uncharacteristically undignified. “Ah, yes. The prophecy .” 
卢修斯的眼睛翻向天花板，他的双手肘靠在椅子的扶手上，以一种异常不体面的方式沉了下去。“啊，是的。预言 .

“You don’t sound taken with it,” Hermione said, not bothering to restrain her smirk. 
“你听起来没什么好意思，”赫敏说，懒得抑制自己的笑容。

His responding glare was venomous and Hermione’s smirk turned into a full grin. 
他回应的目光是恶毒的，赫敏的笑容变成了一个完整的笑容。

“Don’t look so pleased with yourself, Miss Granger,” he said. "You have an immensely irritating habit of acting like you know all the ins and outs of a story before you actually hear it."
“不要看起来对自己那么满意，格兰杰小姐，”他说。“你有一个非常令人讨厌的习惯，在你真正听到一个故事之前，你就表现得好像你知道它的所有来龙去脉。”

“Well, tell me about it, then,” she prompted, allowing the slight to brush past her like a poorly aimed hex.
“好吧，那么，跟我说说吧，”她提示道，让那微小的一丝光芒像一个瞄准不佳的六角一样从她身边擦过。

Lucius sighed deeply through his nose. “I know the story now, of course, but at the time the prophecy was made, the Dark Lord didn’t divulge the details to the majority of his Death Eaters. The information was too sensitive, so he simply became erratic, obsessive and even more secretive. Over the course of a year, he withdrew from every active operation.” Lucius lifted his hand to his face, running his forefinger along his lower lip. “Rather alarming for me, I must say.”
卢修斯从鼻子里深深地叹了口气。“我现在当然知道这个故事了，但在预言出来的时候，黑魔王并没有把细节透露给他的大多数食死徒。信息太敏感了，所以他就变得飘忽不定、强迫症，甚至更加隐秘。在一年的时间里，他退出了所有活跃的行动。卢修斯把手举到他的脸上，食指滑过他的下唇。“我必须说，这让我相当惊慌。”

“In what way?”
“以什么方式？”

“It’s somewhat difficult to give commands when there aren’t any to give. There was a noticeable…loss of momentum, shall we say. It was enough to cause rumbles of dissatisfaction through the ranks and those made my life less than easy. 
“当没有命令可下达时，下达命令有点困难。有一个明显的......失去动力，容我们说。这足以在队伍中引起不满的隆隆声，这让我的生活变得不那么轻松。

"I pressed Severus, of course. He was behaving as oddly as the Dark Lord and I knew he knew something but, for the first time, I think, he wasn’t particularly forthcoming with me.” 
“当然，我催促了西弗勒斯。他的行为举止和黑魔王一样古怪，我知道他知道一些事情，但我想，这是第一次，他并不是特别愿意对我说。

Lucius pursed his lips, clearly irked by the memory of Snape's avoidance.
卢修斯抿了抿嘴唇，显然对斯内普的回避感到恼火。

“And then the Dark Lord vanished. Our marks faded instantaneously. We… felt the loss of him. His power.” 
“然后黑魔王就消失了。我们的印记瞬间消失了。我们。。。感到失去了他。他的力量。

Lucius clicked his tongue against the roof of his mouth, his jaw sliding to the side as he fixed Hermione with a stare.
卢修斯用舌头抵住他的上颚，他的下巴滑向一边，盯着赫敏。

“It was chaos in the aftermath, you know. None of us knew what had happened. Accusations flew, factions formed in the space of hours. Then came the reports that he had been destroyed by a baby. A baby ."
“你知道的，事后一片混乱。我们谁也不知道发生了什么。指控满天飞，派系在几个小时内形成。然后有报道说他被一个婴儿毁了。一个婴儿。

Lucius sighed and lifted a hand to rub his eyes, appearing exhausted by the mere memory of that time. 
卢修斯叹了口气，抬起一只手揉了揉眼睛，似乎仅仅因为那段时间的记忆而筋疲力尽。

"I confess, when the truth was eventually revealed to me, when I learned of the prophecy and why he wanted it, I found myself rather…repulsed. A wizard who had worked relentlessly, ruthlessly, to become all-powerful yet he had–continued to–set store by the ravings of an unproven seer.” 
“我承认，当真相最终向我揭示时，当我得知这个预言以及他为什么想要它时，我发现自己反而......击退。一个无情、无情地工作以变得无所不能的巫师，但他却——继续——被一个未经证实的先知的喋喋不休所占据。

“He was afraid, obviously. He had to take all risks seriously if he didn’t want to lose all that power.”
“显然，他很害怕。如果他不想失去所有的力量，他就必须认真对待所有风险。

“More fear.” Lucius scoffed. “Is everyone afraid in your eyes? Does it make you feel more like a brave little Gryffindor to think everyone but you is scurrying around in fear ?”
“更多的恐惧。”卢修斯嗤之以鼻。“你眼里每个人都害怕吗？想想除了你之外的每个人都在恐惧中四处乱窜，这让你觉得自己更像一个勇敢的小格兰芬多吗？

“Gryffindors still feel fear,” Hermione said loftily. “We just act in spite of it rather than allow ourselves to be led by it.” 
“格兰芬多们还是感到恐惧，”赫敏高傲地说。“我们只是无视它而行动，而不是让自己被它引导。”

Malfoy narrowed his eyes at that, sensing her underlying accusation.
马尔福眯起眼睛，感觉到她潜在的指责。

"You don't set much store by prophecy,  then?" Hermione asked, the almost eager interest in her voice making his head tilt curiously. 
“那么，你不怎么看重预言吗？”赫敏问道，她声音中近乎热切的兴趣让他好奇地歪了歪头。

"I think Divination is one of our most ancient branches of magic and should, therefore, be extended some respect," he said slowly, his voice considering. Hermione bit back a derisive scoff. "But I also think interpreting something as ambiguous as a prophecy or tea leaves through a single, highly personal lens is a recipe for disaster."
“我认为占卜是我们最古老的魔法分支之一，因此，应该给予一些尊重，”他缓缓地说，他的声音深思熟虑。赫敏嘲讽地嘲讽地回了一句。“但我也认为，通过一个单一的、高度个人化的镜头来解释像预言或茶叶这样模棱两可的东西，是灾难的根源。”

"Yes, imagine allowing your personal biases to cloud your judgment," Hermione said flatly. 
“是的，想象一下让你的个人偏见蒙蔽了你的判断，”赫敏平淡地说。

Lucius' nostrils flared and Hermione offered him a tight smile.
卢修斯的鼻孔张开，赫敏向他露出一个紧绷的笑容。

“So what did you do the night he fell?" Hermione asked. "Amidst the chaos?”
“那么，他坠落的那天晚上你做了什么？”赫敏问道。“在混乱中？”

Lucius looked like he might not answer her as punishment for her cheek but, after a moment of tight-faced contemplation, he sighed. “I got my story straight.”
卢修斯看起来可能不会回答她，以惩罚她的脸颊，但在紧绷的脸上沉思了一会儿后，他叹了口气。“我把我的故事说清楚了。”

“You didn’t go looking for him at Godric’s Hollow? You didn't join the Death Eaters who desperately searched for him?" Lucius shook his head. "Your sister-in-law was so sure he wasn't dead she destroyed the Longbottoms," Hermione added, a slight waver in her voice. "Why didn't you?"
“你不是去戈德里克山谷找他吗？你不是加入了拼命寻找他的食死徒吗？卢修斯摇摇头。“你嫂子这么确定他没死，她毁了隆巴顿一家，”赫敏补充道，她的声音略带颤抖。“你为什么不呢？”

"Bella was a fanatic, Miss Granger. I consider myself to be a touch more pragmatic and, as a pragmatist, I cannot pretend my faith wasn't shaken by the Dark Lord's apparent defeat by a baby ."
“贝拉是个狂热分子，格兰杰小姐。我认为自己更务实一些，作为一个实用主义者，我不能假装我的信仰没有被黑魔王明显地打败一个婴儿所动摇。

"So you believed he was gone?"
“所以你相信他已经走了？”

"It certainly appeared that way and so I acted accordingly. I told you, Miss Granger, my family came first. I had to protect their— our —interests before anything else. Going looking for the Dark Lord would not have been in keeping with the behaviour of a man who had just snapped out of years spent under the Imperius curse. I am many things but I am not a fool.”
“事情确实是这样的，所以我采取了相应的行动。我告诉你，格兰杰小姐，我的家人先来了。我必须先保护他们——我们的——利益。去寻找黑魔王与一个刚刚在帝王诅咒下度过的岁月中醒来的人的行为不符。我有很多东西，但我不是傻子。

“No,” she said thoughtfully, her eyes raking over him, lingering on his scratched arms and rumpled shirt long enough that he shifted, feeling a curious vulnerability. “I don’t suppose you are. I think we can leave it there for today, Mr Malfoy.”
“不，”她若有所思地说，她的眼睛扫视着他，在他被划伤的手臂和皱巴巴的衬衫上徘徊了足够长的时间，以至于他动了动，感到一种奇怪的脆弱。“我想你不是。我想我们今天就在这里吧，马尔福先生。

“Very well.”
“很好。”

As Malfoy straightened up, inspecting the cuts on his arm more closely, Hermione tapped the Wheezebox with her wand and proceeded to pack her things away. “I'll be working in the library for a while tonight,” she said. “Just so you're aware.”
当马尔福直起身来，更仔细地检查他手臂上的伤口时，赫敏用魔杖敲了敲喘息盒，然后开始收拾她的东西。“我今晚会在图书馆工作一会儿，”她说。“只是让你知道。”

Lucius made a dismissive noise and rose out of his chair to turn and face the window. He continued looking away until he heard the door close, at which point he sighed and allowed his shoulders to drop under the weight of his tiredness.
卢修斯轻蔑地发出声音，从椅子上站起来，转身面对窗户。他继续移开视线，直到听到门关上的声音，这时他叹了口气，让自己的肩膀在疲惫的重压下垂下。

"Letty," he said into the empty room, hoping the elf would be quick with the essence of Murtlap. His cuts were beginning to sting. 
“莱蒂，”他对着空荡荡的房间说，希望这个妖精能快点掌握穆特拉普的精华。他的伤口开始刺痛。

Chapter 17
第十七章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Lucius and Hermione have a late night encounter.
卢修斯和赫敏在深夜相遇。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you all so much for your kind reviews <3
非常感谢大家的好评 <3

June 8th - continued
6 月 8 日 - 续

Lucius didn’t often eat dinner with Draco and Astoria but after Granger’s departure he felt an unusual need to be around people. More specifically, to be around his son. 
卢修斯不经常和德拉科和阿斯托利亚一起吃晚饭，但在格兰杰离开后，他觉得自己不寻常地需要和人在一起。更具体地说，就是在他儿子身边。

He didn’t say that, of course. In fact, he sat at the dining table in stony silence, barely looking at either of them, but their presence soothed the uncomfortable itching that had developed in the back of his brain. 
当然，他没有这么说。事实上，他静静地坐在餐桌旁，几乎不看他们中的任何一个人，但他们的存在缓解了他大脑后部产生的不舒服的瘙痒。

“The wards noted Hermione’s arrival today but I’m not sure she’s actually left,” Astoria said to Draco, glancing over at the grandfather clock in the corner. It read 8.10 pm. “Shouldn’t we send something up with Letty if she's still here?”
“病房注意到赫敏今天到了，但我不确定她真的已经离开了，”阿斯托利亚对德拉科说，瞥了一眼角落里的老爷钟。上面写着晚上 8 点 10 分。“如果 Letty 还在这里，我们难道不应该给她寄点东西吗？”

“Miss Granger is perfectly capable of feeding herself, Astoria,” Lucius said crisply, dabbing the corner of his mouth with a napkin. 
“格兰杰小姐完全有能力自己吃饭，阿斯托利亚，”卢修斯干脆地说，用餐巾纸擦了擦嘴角。

Astoria looked reproachfully at Lucius and appeared ready to respond when Draco set a cautioning hand on her arm. The sight of the action made Lucius grit his teeth. Sometimes they treated him like something to be handled. Like some kind of fanged creature that wouldn't bite if you could only tread carefully enough around it. It made him want to bite more. 
阿斯托利亚责备地看着卢修斯，当德拉科用一只警告的手搭在她的手臂上时，她似乎准备回应。看到这一幕，卢修斯咬牙切齿。有时他们把他当作需要处理的东西。就像某种长着獠牙的生物，如果你能小心翼翼地绕过它，它不会咬人。这让他想咬得更多。

Granger was the only other person with whom he had any interactions and she didn’t treat him like that, he realised with a dissatisfied tug in his stomach. She just…what? Lucius adjusted his napkin, frowning at it. What did she do? Well, she didn't tread carefully, at the very least.
格兰杰是他唯一一个和他有任何互动的人，她也没有那样对待他，他意识到，肚子里不满地拉扯着。她只是......什么？卢修斯调整了一下餐巾纸，皱着眉头。她做了什么呢？好吧，至少她没有小心翼翼。

 “She's a guest, father,” said Draco, his tone carefully measured.
“她是客人，爸爸，”德拉科说，他的语气小心翼翼地衡量着。

“Not a dinner guest,” Lucius responded, taking a sip of his wine. “She has the freedom to go back and forth between the library and her own kitchen. I do not see why she should make so much use of ours.”
“不是晚餐的客人，”卢修斯回答道，啜了一口他的酒。“她可以自由地在图书馆和自己的厨房之间来回切换。我不明白她为什么要这么多地利用我们。

Draco frowned at him but didn’t argue back, instead turning to Astoria. “She’ll probably leave soon, anyway. I’ve told you what she gets like when she’s head down into things.” Draco jerked his head in the direction of his father. “It’s like him.”
德拉科皱着眉头看着他，但没有反驳，而是转向阿斯托利亚。“反正她可能很快就会走了。我已经告诉过你，当她埋头做事时，她会是什么样子。德拉科猛地把头转向他父亲的方向。“就像他一样。”

“There is nothing of a likeness between myself and Miss Granger,” Lucius said stiffly, setting down his knife and fork, his appetite rapidly vanishing. 
“我和格兰杰小姐之间一点也不像，”卢修斯僵硬地说，放下了他的刀叉，他的胃口很快就消失了。

“Funny,” Draco said, a smirk quivering around his mouth, “I’m sure she’d say that too. You seem to be especially annoyed by her today, what’s she done?”
“好笑，”德拉科说，嘴角一抹得意的笑容颤抖着，“我敢肯定她也会这么说的。你今天好像特别生她的气，她做了什么？

“Nothing.” Lucius removed his napkin from his lap and dropped it onto his plate, crossing his legs and folding his arms.
“没什么。”卢修斯从腿上取下餐巾纸，把它放在盘子里，交叉双腿，交叉双臂。

Draco raised his eyebrows and took a large bite of mashed potato as he dispassionately contemplated Lucius’ pretzel-like body language. “Never heard ‘nothing’ sound so much like ‘something’.”
德拉科扬起眉毛，咬了一大口土豆泥，冷静地思考着卢修斯那类似椒盐卷饼的肢体语言。“从来没有听过'什么都没有'听起来这么像'有东西'。”

Lucius tutted and looked away, deciding that he would opt for a dignified silence over a snappish response. He was rather regretting his decision to join his son for dinner. 
卢修斯啧了一声，移开了视线，决定他会选择庄重的沉默，而不是生硬的回应。他相当后悔自己决定和儿子一起吃晚饭。

Despite not getting a reply, Draco didn’t let up. Their spoiling of him had ensured that wasn't in his nature and Lucius quietly lamented himself and Narcissa's short-sightedness. “She’s not what you thought she’d be, is she?”
尽管没有得到回复，德拉科并没有松懈。他们对他的宠坏确保了这并不是他的本性，卢修斯悄悄地哀叹自己和纳西莎的短视。“她不是你想象的那个样子，对吧？”

Slowly, Lucius’ head turned back towards his son and he rolled his tongue in his mouth for a moment in an effort to stop himself answering. 
慢慢地，卢修斯的头转向他的儿子，他在嘴里滚动了一会儿舌头，试图阻止自己回答。

“What exactly do you mean by that?” he finally asked, his voice pleasant and his face placid, while he internally cursed himself to the ends of the earth for engaging.
“你这到底是什么意思？”他终于问道，他的声音悦耳动听，脸色平静，同时他在心里咒骂自己，直到天涯海角。

“She’s a person.”
“她是一个人。”

This time, Lucius didn’t actually have a reply to repress. Perhaps sensing that, Draco just smiled and dropped his gaze to his dinner. Astoria looked back and forth between them, her lips slightly parted and her cod forgotten. Lucius didn’t say a word for the rest of the meal.  
这一次，卢修斯实际上并没有回应压抑。也许是感觉到了这一点，德拉科只是笑了笑，把目光投向了他的晚餐。阿斯托利亚在他们之间来回打量，她的嘴唇微微张开，忘记了她的鳕鱼。卢修斯在剩下的饭菜中一言不发。

The sun had set but the evening was still pleasantly warm enough for Lucius to stand on the terrace with his after-dinner brandy. Swirling it in the glass, he turned his head up to the sky and inhaled the summer night air, his eyes fluttering closed. It smelled fresh and there was something floral from the gardens that reminded him of…
太阳已经落山，但傍晚仍然温暖宜人，卢修斯可以站在露台上喝着他的餐后白兰地。他在玻璃杯里旋转着，抬头望向天空，吸入夏夜的空气，颤抖着闭上了眼睛。闻起来很清新，花园里有一些花香让他想起......

Lucius’ eyes snapped open and he took a large gulp of his brandy, coughing when some of it went down the wrong way. 
卢修斯猛然睁开眼睛，他大口大口地喝了一大口白兰地，当一些白兰地流错方向时，他咳嗽了起来。

“Need some company?” Draco’s voice came from behind him but Lucius didn’t bother to turn around, still rubbing his chest to help the rest of his brandy go down. “I’ll take your silence as an invitation.”
“需要一些陪伴吗？”德拉科的声音从他身后传来，但卢修斯懒得转身，仍然揉着胸口，帮助他剩下的白兰地喝下去。“我会把你的沉默当作一种邀请。”

“Of course you will,” Lucius muttered as Draco appeared by his shoulder, clutching a matching glass of brandy. 
“你当然会的，”卢修斯咕哝着，德拉科出现在他的肩膀上，手里拿着一杯相配的白兰地。

The terrace was in darkness but the light from the house was strong enough to illuminate their surroundings, giving everything hazy backlight. Lucius glanced at his son from the corner of his eyes. He often forgot that Draco had grown to be taller than him. He often forgot Draco had grown . 
露台一片漆黑，但房子的光线足够强，足以照亮周围的环境，给一切都带来朦胧的背光。卢修斯用眼角的余光瞥了一眼他的儿子。他经常忘记德拉科已经长得比他高了。他经常忘记德拉科已经长大了。

“Are you being nice to her?” Draco asked, looking out over the grounds and taking a sip of his brandy. 
“你对她好吗？”德拉科问道，一边望着外面的地面，啜了一口他的白兰地。

Lucius didn’t need to ask who he was talking about—they both knew perfectly well. “I am doing as asked. Stop adding increasingly restrictive parameters to what is already a hateful experience.” 
卢修斯不需要问他在说谁——他们都非常清楚。“我正在按照要求去做。停止在已经是仇恨的经历中增加越来越严格的参数。

Draco must have laughed because his shoulders shook. “She's still here,” he said, glancing over at Lucius. "I asked Letty to check.”
德拉科一定是笑了，因为他的肩膀在颤抖。“她还在这里，”他说，瞥了一眼卢修斯。“我让莱蒂检查一下。”

Lucius reached down and drew out his pocket watch. Ludicrous . “Is she ever in her own home?”
卢修斯伸手掏出他的怀表。 荒唐的。“她曾经在自己家里吗？”

“She cares about what she does,” Draco said, shrugging. “I thought passion and drive were things you always admired. You banged on enough about the importance of working hard when I couldn’t beat her marks at school.” 
“她关心她所做的事情，”德拉科耸耸肩说。“我认为激情和动力是你一直钦佩的东西。当我在学校的成绩无法超过她的成绩时，你已经足够大谈努力工作的重要性了。

Lucius quietly tutted at the memory of his borderline distraught son, presenting him with acceptable grades and excuses for why they weren’t the best in his year. “I deplore complacency, Draco, you know that. And excuses.” Lucius sighed deeply, adding with a murmur, “I do recall you being alarmingly fixated on her. It did somewhat concern me for a time.”
卢修斯悄悄地啧啧了一声，回忆起他那几乎心烦意乱的儿子，向他展示了可以接受的成绩和借口，解释为什么他们在他的一年里不是最好的。“我惋惜自满，德拉科，你知道的。还有借口。卢修斯深深地叹了口气，喃喃自语地补充道，“我记得你曾经对她产生了惊人的关注。这确实让我有一段时间有点担心。

“Can you blame me?” Draco asked, his voice rising with incredulity. “She wasn’t anything like what you told me Muggle-borns would be. She was…” Draco searched the air for the word he was looking for. “ Brilliant .” 
“你能怪我吗？”德拉科问道，他的声音因难以置信而提高。“她和你说的麻瓜出身的人完全不是那样。她是......”德拉科在空气中寻找他正在寻找的词。“太棒了。”

Lucius glanced quickly at Draco out of the corner of his eyes and saw him staring out over the grounds, frustration written over his face. “You told me Malfoys were the best,” Draco said, his tone stopping just short of accusatory. “Just…the best . So that’s what I tried to be. Except she beat me in every class. The only place she couldn’t beat me was the Quidditch pitch but Potter did that for her. Half-blood Potter with his Muggle-born mother.” 
卢修斯用眼角的余光快速瞥了一眼德拉科，看到他正盯着外面的地面，脸上写满了沮丧。“你说过马尔福是最好的，”德拉科说，他的语气几乎带着指责。“只是......最好的。所以这就是我试图成为的样子。除了她每节课都打败我。她唯一打不过我的地方是魁地奇球场，但波特为她做到了。混血波特和他麻瓜出身的母亲。

Draco turned his head to fix his father with a fierce look. “Do you know how that… I didn’t understand .” He shook his head. “The only reason I could claim I was better than her was because she was a – a Mudblood . Except she wasn’t anything like what you told me a Mudblood was. What was I supposed to do with that? I hated her so much that Pansy accused me of some kind of…repressed… fascination .”
德拉科转过头来，用凶狠的眼神盯着他的父亲。“你知道那是怎么回事吗......我不明白。他摇摇头。“我唯一能说我比她好的原因就是因为她是一个——一个泥巴种。只不过她和你说的泥巴种完全不同。我该怎么办呢？我太讨厌她了，以至于潘西指责我某种......压抑。。。 着迷。

Lucius shot his son a sharp, alarmed look, and Draco shook his head tiredly. “It wasn’t that. I did hate her. I hated her more than I liked Pansy. She just didn’t deserve it.” Draco took a long drink and sighed, turning to look back out over the grounds. “Took me a long time to realise it.”
卢修斯警惕地瞪了儿子一眼，德拉科疲惫地摇了摇头。“不是那个。我确实恨她。我讨厌她胜过喜欢潘西。她只是不配。德拉科喝了一大口，叹了口气，转身回头看向院子里。“我花了很长时间才意识到这一点。”

Sighing through his nose, Lucius finally turned to look at his son’s profile. It was startlingly like his own. “Draco, I do not understand why you are so keen for me to see the girl in a positive light.”
卢修斯从鼻子里叹了口气，终于转过头来看了看儿子的侧影。它和他自己的惊人地相似。“德拉科，我不明白你为什么这么热衷于让我以积极的态度看待这个女孩。”

Draco winced and turned his head to meet Lucius’ eyes. “I suppose I'm hoping you'll...see in her what Astoria and I have been unable to make you see through words alone.”
德拉科皱起眉头，转过头来与卢修斯的眼睛相遇。“我想我希望你能......在她身上看到阿斯托利亚和我单靠语言无法让你看清的东西。

“And that is?” 
“那是？”

“That Muggle-borns aren't less than us,” Draco shrugged, his voice light as voices tend to be when one is explaining an obvious, uncomplicated truth. “That things wouldn't necessarily be better without them.”
“那个麻瓜出身的人不比我们差，”德拉科耸耸肩，他的声音很轻，就像一个人在解释一个明显、简单的真相时的声音一样。“没有他们，情况不一定会更好。”

Lucius’ grip on his glass tightened fractionally. “You send the most irritating woman I've ever met into my life to be an advocate for Muggle-borns,” he said, his tone flatly incredulous. “I’m somewhat relieved you declined that internship in International Magical Co-operation I once secured for you, Draco. Had you pursued that path our diplomatic strategy would be chaotic."
卢修斯握着玻璃杯的手微微收紧。“你派我这辈子见过的最令人讨厌的女人来做麻瓜出身的代言人，”他说，语气里带着难以置信的语气。“我有点松了一口气，你拒绝了我曾经为你争取到的国际魔法合作实习机会，德拉科。如果你走这条路，我们的外交策略就会很混乱。

“You were happy to let her help you in the greenhouse today,” Draco said, peering innocently down into his glass before taking another drink.
“你今天很高兴让她在温室里帮你，”德拉科说，天真地低头盯着他的杯子，然后又喝了一杯。

Lucius blanched. “Did she tell you that?”
卢修斯脸色发白。“她跟你说的吗？”

“No.” Draco shook his head and looked back down over the grounds in the direction of the greenhouse in question. “I sent her down there and waited to see if you would kick her out.”
“不。”德拉科摇了摇头，回头看向了那个温室的方向。“我把她送到那里，等着看你是否会把她踢出去。”

“Why?” Lucius asked through gritted teeth. Why, when he was already being punished, did his own son see fit to punish him further?
“为什么？”卢修斯咬牙切齿地问道。为什么当他已经受到惩罚时，他自己的儿子却认为应该进一步惩罚他呢？

“Because I popped in the other day and saw the Snargaluff was ready." Draco’s voice had taken on a sharp edge that he didn't often use with Lucius. “I knew exactly what you were going to do today and I knew you wouldn't let me help you because you’re a stubborn idiot. Granger doesn’t usually take no for an answer, especially not when it might mean someone could get hurt.”
“因为我前几天进来，看到 Snargaluff 已经准备好了。”德拉科的声音变得尖锐起来，他不常对卢修斯使用。“我很清楚你今天要做什么，我知道你不会让我帮你，因为你是个顽固的白痴。格兰杰通常不会接受拒绝的回答，尤其是当这可能意味着有人可能会受伤时。

“She doesn't know the meaning of the bloody word,” Lucius snapped. “Do you forget that I’m your father, Draco? That you’re my son? I realise this house is currently my prison but I am not your prisoner to manage and rehabilitate.”
“她不知道那个的词是什么意思，”卢修斯厉声说。“你忘了我是你的爸爸吗，德拉科？你是我的儿子？我知道这所房子现在是我的监狱，但我不是你管理和改造的囚犯。

“That’s not what I'm trying to do.”
“那不是我想要做的。”

“Oh?” Lucius asked bitterly, his gaze drawn into the amber liquid in his glass. “So what is it that you’re trying to do? Because whatever it is, it’s not working.”
“哦？”卢修斯苦涩地问道，他的目光被玻璃杯里的琥珀色液体所吸引。“那么你想做什么呢？因为无论它是什么，它都不起作用。

“I'm trying to get through to you and to care about you.” There was a subtle crack in Draco’s voice and there was no mistaking the aggrievement filling it. 
“我正在努力联系你并关心你。”德拉科的声音里有一丝微妙的裂缝，毫无疑问，其中充满了委屈。

Silence fell and Lucius took a long drink, noticing Draco follow suit. He wasn’t leaving. Sighing through his nose, Lucius gave his son a sidelong look. His only son, who he had been keeping at arm’s length since the end of the war out of a combination of shame at what he had done to him and fear of being a burden to him. It didn’t seem to be doing much good. What would? What would have stopped him foisting Granger on him?
一片寂静，卢修斯喝了一大口，注意到德拉科也跟着喝了一口。他不会离开。卢修斯从鼻子里叹了口气，侧头看了儿子一眼。他唯一的儿子，自战争结束以来，他一直与他保持距离，因为他对自己的所作所为感到羞愧，又害怕成为他的负担。它似乎没有多大好处。会怎样呢？什么能阻止他把格兰杰强加给他呢？

“When I need help in the greenhouse,” he said quietly, “I will come to you, Draco.”
“当我在温室里需要帮助时，”他轻声说，“我会来找你的，德拉科。

“Really?” Draco’s head snapped around, a hopeful smile on his face. He looked almost the way he had when Lucius had told him he’d buy him a Nimbus 2001. A simpler time. How had Lucius not realised back then that he had everything he could ever need?
“真的吗？”德拉科猛地转过头来，脸上露出充满希望的笑容。他看起来几乎和卢修斯告诉他要给他买一辆 Nimbus 2001 时的样子。更简单的时代。卢修斯当时怎么没有意识到他拥有他所需要的一切？

“Yes." Lucius rolled his eyes. “Consider me chastened.”
“是的。”卢修斯翻了个白眼。“就把我当作惩罚吧。”

“Thank you, father.” Draco’s voice was soft, pleased, and Lucius relaxed ever so slightly, despite the tug of undeserving shame he felt. He’d made his son happy for the first time in a long time and all it had taken was letting him in. But that was something that made him happy too. Couldn't he, for once in his life, do something selfless for Draco?
“谢谢你，爸爸。”德拉科的声音轻柔而高兴，卢修斯稍微放松了下来，尽管他感到了不应有的羞耻。他很长一段时间以来第一次让儿子开心，而他所需要的只是让他进来。但这也是让他感到高兴的事情。难道他不能，在他的生命中，第一次，为德拉科做点无私的事情吗？

“Mother wrote,” Draco said after a moment, those two words undoing all the contentment of the last few minutes. “She said you signed the papers without argument.”
“妈妈写的，”德拉科过了一会儿说，这两个字抹去了过去几分钟的所有满足感。“她说你没有争论就签署了文件。”

“I did.” His brandy glass was empty. Why was it empty? When had he emptied it? 
“我做到了。”他的白兰地杯是空的。为什么它是空的？他什么时候清空的呢？

“I thought you might have—”
“我以为你可能——”

“Pleaded?” Lucius asked, his face twisting with disgust. “We have been over this, Draco. Multiple times. Your mother and I are never going to reconcile.”
“恳求？”卢修斯问道，他的脸因厌恶而扭曲。“我们已经在处理这件事了，德拉科。多次。妈和我永远都不会和解的。

“You didn’t make things easy for her, you know.”
“你知道的，你没有让她轻松。”

“I would argue I made things very easy for her.”
“我认为我让她的事情变得很容易。”

Draco’s sigh was soft but in the peaceful quiet of a summer evening it was audible. In his sore, fractious state, Lucius could have seized upon it to aggravate himself further but instead he closed his eyes and took a steadying breath. It seemed to work for Granger. On occasion.
德拉科的叹息很轻柔，但在夏日傍晚的宁静中，还是可以听到的。在他痛苦、烦躁的状态下，卢修斯本可以抓住它来进一步激怒自己，但他却闭上了眼睛，稳住了呼吸。这似乎对格兰杰有用。有时。

“We both love you, Draco,” Lucius said quietly, opening his eyes and raising his head. “That won’t change.”
“我们都爱你，德拉科，”卢修斯轻声说，睁开眼睛，抬起头。“这不会改变。”

“I know.”
“我知道。”

Seeking a refill, Lucius turned on his heel and walked back in the direction of the house, leaving Draco alone on the terrace. He didn’t go back outside. 
为了补充能量，卢修斯转身朝房子的方向走去，留下德拉科一个人在露台上。他没有回到外面。

It was after 10pm when Lucius wandered through the corridors in the direction of his study. He was feeling rather ruminative and fully intended to shallow the swirling depths of his mind with a few more glasses of firewhiskey.
晚上 10 点多，卢修斯穿过走廊，朝着他的书房方向走去。他感觉相当沉思，完全打算再喝几杯火威士忌来浅浅他心灵的漩涡深处。

“Lucius, you’re looking particularly morose this evening.”
“卢修斯，你今晚看起来特别闷闷不乐。”

“Thank you, Sabine,” he said, slowing to a stop and turning to look at the familiar sight of Sabine leaning on her frame. 
“谢谢你，Sabine，”他说，放慢脚步停下，转身看着Sabine靠在她身上的熟悉景象。

“Is your Muggle-born still visiting?” she asked, eyes searching Lucius as though he might be hiding Hermione. “I haven’t spoken to her in a while.”
“你那个麻瓜出身的人还来探望吗？”她问道，眼睛扫视着卢修斯，仿佛他可能在躲着赫敏。“我已经有一段时间没有和她说话了。”

“She’s not my Muggle-born,” Lucius said, his brows falling into a deep frown. 
“她不是我麻瓜出身的，”卢修斯说，他的眉头深深地皱了起来。

“Well, she’s not mine . ”
“嗯，她不是我的。”

Lucius crossed his arms. “Then she’s no one’s.”
卢修斯交叉双臂。“那她就不是任何人的了。”

“How sad,” Sabine pouted, pushing her shoulder against the frame to stand straight. 
“多么可悲，”Sabine 撅着嘴，把她的肩膀靠在框架上，让她站直。

“Why do you want to know Sabine? Do you have a particular attachment to Muggles and Mudbloods?”
“你为什么想认识萨宾？你对麻瓜和泥巴种有特别的依恋吗？

He knew he was probably pushing her buttons. Quite meanly, actually, given her history. But a part of him resented her for never telling him about her husband, about their maid, about the child they had adopted—stolen—from its Muggle mother. Besides, she was a painting .
他知道他可能在按她的按钮。实际上，考虑到她的历史，这相当卑鄙。但他有一部分怨恨她，因为她从来没有告诉他关于她的丈夫，关于他们的女仆，关于他们从麻瓜母亲那里收养——偷来——的孩子。此外，她是一幅画。

Sabine’s teasing expression dropped and she crossed her own arms, mirroring Lucius. “I told you when you were a boy not to use that word around me. You sound like your father.”
萨宾的戏谑表情消失了，她交叉着自己的手臂，与卢修斯相映成趣。“当你还是个孩子的时候，我告诉过你不要在我身边使用这个词。你听起来像你爸爸。

The problem with pressing Sabine’s buttons was that she knew how to press his right back. Lucius raised his eyebrows in challenge. “You never gave me a good enough reason.”
按下 Sabine 按钮的问题在于她知道如何按下他的右背。卢修斯挑起眉毛。“你从来没有给我一个足够好的理由。”

“My objection to it should be reason enough, Lucius; have some respect.” Her hard expression softened infinitesimally. “She seems like a decent enough girl. Hopeless with directions, yes, but she's pretty, in an artless sort of way. Innocent. Certainly not deserving of that pejorative,” Sabine added shrewdly. "You needn't be so cruel."
“我反对它应该有足够的理由，卢修斯;要尊重一些。她严肃的表情无限地柔和了下来。“她看起来是个足够体面的女孩。 没错，她对方向无可救药，但她很漂亮，以一种不加修饰的方式。无罪。当然不配这个贬义词，“萨宾娜精明地补充道。“你不必这么残忍。”

Biting down on his tongue to stop himself saying something he might regret, Lucius dropped his arms and turned towards his office. 
卢修斯咬住舌头，阻止自己说出他可能会后悔的话，然后放下手臂，转向他的办公室。

“Good night, then, Lucius,” Sabine called after him. He didn’t need to look back to know that she was giving him that sarcastic little wave she’d always given his father behind his back. Then, it had been for Lucius’ benefit and amusement.
“那么，晚安，卢修斯，”萨宾在他身后喊道。他不需要回头就知道她正在向他挥手，她总是背着他的父亲挥手。那时，它只是为了卢修斯的利益和娱乐。

When he reached his office, he paused with his hand on the doorknob and looked down the corridor in the direction of the library. 
当他到达办公室时，他停了下来，把手放在门把手上，沿着走廊向图书馆的方向看去。

Tapping his forefinger twice on the brass handle, he dropped his hand with an aggravated grunt and continued walking down the corridor. Turning in towards the library, he saw the soft glow of the fire through the crack in the door. How was it possible that she was still in his home? Pushing against the door, Lucius peered into the room towards the desk, fully prepared to tell her off for overstaying her welcome, when he stilled. 
他用食指在黄铜把手上敲了两下，然后恼怒地咕哝了一声，放下了手，继续沿着走廊走去。他转身向图书馆走去，从门缝里看到火光柔和。她怎么可能还在他家里呢？卢修斯推开门，朝桌子上瞥了一眼房间，完全准备好告别她逾期了，这时他安静了下来。

She was face down on the desk, her head resting on a pile of her folders and her hair pooled around her like a golden brown halo. Pausing, Lucius listened to her deep, even breaths. You needn’t be so cruel . He hesitated, turning back towards the corridor and then back towards the library a few times before stopping with a deep, resigned sigh.
她脸朝下躺在桌子上，头靠在一堆文件夹上，头发像金棕色的光环一样聚集在她周围。停顿了一下，卢修斯听着她深沉而均匀的呼吸。 你不必这么残忍。他犹豫了一下，转身朝走廊走去，又又转身朝图书馆走了好几下，然后停了下来，深深地叹了口气。

“Letty,” he said quietly. 
“莱蒂，”他轻声说。

The elf appeared with a loud crack and Lucius winced, peering back through the door to check that Granger hadn’t stirred. 
精灵发出一声响亮的噼啪声，卢修斯皱起眉头，从门口回头看，确认格兰杰没有动弹。

“Master called Letty?” 
“师父叫莱蒂？”

Lucius hushed the elf with a gesture and pointed in the direction of the library, speaking in an undertone. “Letty, take Miss Granger to the guest room along the hall. Try not to wake her.” 
卢修斯做了个手势让精灵安静下来，然后指着图书馆的方向，低声说道。“莱蒂，带格兰杰小姐到走廊对面的客房去。尽量不要吵醒她。

Letty nodded fervently, her ears flapping. Lucius did not wait to see that she followed his orders, instead moving back down the hall towards his study, his steps heavy. 
莱蒂热切地点点头，她的耳朵拍打着。卢修斯没有等她听从他的命令，而是沿着走廊向他的书房走去，他的脚步很沉重。

Hermione awoke with a start and a sharp intake of breath. She was in a bed. A very soft, large bed. Her bed wasn’t very soft and large; it was rather small and there was a strange lump in the mattress down by her lower back. Dazed and groggy from sleep, she used her elbows to push herself up into a sitting position and looked around. 
赫敏惊醒了，猛地吸了一口气。她躺在床上。一张非常柔软的大床。她的床不是很柔软，也不是很大;它相当小，在她下背部的床垫上有一个奇怪的肿块。她睡着了，头晕目眩，昏昏沉沉的，她用手肘把自己推到坐姿，环顾四周。

The room was in darkness and she could barely see a thing but it didn’t feel like a familiar space. It felt much too big to be her own room. Besides, she couldn’t remember going to bed. The last thing she remembered was being in the Malfoy’s library and…
房间里一片漆黑，她几乎什么也看不见，但感觉不像是一个熟悉的地方。感觉太大了，不能当她自己的房间。此外，她不记得自己上床睡觉了。她记得的最后一件事是在马尔福的图书馆里，然后......

Closing her eyes, Hermione focused hard on the thought of her wand. “ Lumos ,” she whispered. A few feet away, her wand lit up. It was still sticking out her satchel. In the glow of the spell she could see that she was in a grand but very old-fashioned bedroom. It brought to mind her vague, early memories of her grandmother’s home. Lots of floral patterns and dusky rose shades, a thick carpet, heavy curtains and bed hangings. Overall, it was a room that looked like it should be very dusty but, based on the fresh smell, Hermione was fairly certain that it was sparklingly clean. 
闭上眼睛，赫敏努力地专注于她的魔杖。“卢莫斯，”她低声说。几英尺远的地方，她的魔杖亮了起来。它仍然从她的书包里伸出来。在咒语的光芒中，她可以看到自己在一个宏伟但非常老式的卧室里。这让她想起了她对祖母家的模糊的早期记忆。大量的花卉图案和暗淡的玫瑰色调，厚厚的地毯，沉重的窗帘和床帷。总的来说，这是一个看起来应该尘土飞扬的房间，但根据新鲜的气味，赫敏相当确定它是闪闪发光的干净。

Lifting the sheets, Hermione saw with some relief that she was still dressed in her shorts, top and cardigan. She swung her legs over the side of the bed and peered down to see her trainers sticking out from under the frilly bed skirt. It was fairly obvious that she was still in Malfoy Manor but she wasn’t sure where they’d have put her. With a sinking feeling, Hermione pictured still being there in the morning. Would Draco make her eat breakfast with them? Please no .
掀开床单，赫敏松了一口气，发现她还穿着短裤、上衣和开衫。她把双腿甩到床边，低头一看，看到她的运动鞋从褶边床裙下伸出来。很明显，她还在马尔福庄园里，但她不确定他们会把她放在哪里。赫敏心情沉重，想象着早上还在那里。德拉科会让她和他们一起吃早餐吗？ 请不要。

Deciding that it’d be better to at least see if she was anywhere familiar, Hermione opened the bedroom door a crack and peered into the hallway, looking right and then left. Oh , she thought, seeing the large window at the end. She was still in the corridor with the library and Malfoy’s study. Glancing down the corridor to the door of the study, Hermione spotted a light was coming through the bottom of the door. 
赫敏决定至少看看她是不是很熟悉，于是她打开了卧室的门，向走廊里看了看，左看了看。 哦，她想，看到尽头的大窗户。她还在走廊里，旁边是图书馆和马尔福的书房。赫敏沿着走廊瞥了一眼书房的门口，发现有一道光从门的底部射进来。

Opening the bedroom door more fully, she stepped into the hallway crossed diagonally to Malfoy’s study. Breath held, she leaned towards the door with her ear, listening for any sign of life. Then she heard the sound of a man clearing his throat. So he was there. Hermione hesitated. Should she tell him that she was planning to leave? Was that the polite thing to do? That was even assuming he knew someone had placed her in that room in the first place. But what if it was Draco that had done it and he couldn’t find her in the morning? Would he panic? She should tell someone she was going. 
她更充分地打开卧室的门，走进了斜对着马尔福书房的走廊。她屏住呼吸，用耳朵靠向门口，倾听任何生命的迹象。然后她听到一个男人清嗓子的声音。所以他就在那里。赫敏犹豫了。她应该告诉他她打算离开吗？这是礼貌的做法吗？这甚至假设他知道有人一开始就把她放在那个房间里。但是，如果是德拉科干的，他早上找不到她呢？他会惊慌吗？她应该告诉别人她要去。

Resolute, Hermione knocked softly on the door. There was a long silence on the other side and then she heard Lucius say, “come in”. He didn’t sound curious about who might be knocking on his door in the early hours of the morning, more resigned. 
赫敏坚决地轻轻敲了敲门。另一边沉默了很久，然后她听到卢修斯说：“进来”。他听起来并不好奇谁会在凌晨敲他的门，更多的是无奈。

Turning the handle, Hermione pushed her way into the room and saw that Lucius Malfoy was sitting at his desk, both elbows leaning on it as though his head had just been in his hands. He glanced up at Hermione as she came in, not looking especially surprised to see that it was her. 
转动把手，赫敏推门走进房间，看到卢修斯·马尔福正坐在他的书桌前，两只手肘都靠在上面，仿佛他的头刚刚在他的手里。当赫敏进来时，他抬头看了一眼赫敏，看到是她，他并没有显得特别惊讶。

“Mr Malfoy—”
“马尔福先生——”

“Close the door, Miss Granger; there’s a draught.” Unlike the first time she’d heard him make that demand, his voice wasn’t sharp or unkind. He just sounded tired. So she did as he asked without argument, stepping into the room. 
“关上门，格兰杰小姐;有吃水。与她第一次听到他提出这个要求不同，他的声音并不尖锐或不友善。他只是听起来很累。于是她毫无争辩地按照他的要求走进了房间。

“Letty only put you to bed around four hours ago,” he said, lifting his elbows and sitting back in his chair. “Why are you awake?”
“莱蒂大约四个小时前才让你上床睡觉，”他说，抬起胳膊肘，坐回椅子上。“你怎么醒了？”

“Letty put me to bed?”
“莱蒂让我上床睡觉？”

“You fell asleep in the library so I called for her. I thought you might regret your choice of sleeping position in the morning.”
“你在图书馆睡着了，所以我叫她来。我以为你可能会后悔早上选择的睡姿。

Her lips parted slightly in surprise before she tucked her hair behind her ear, looking awkwardly down at the floor. “Well, thank you.” 
她的嘴唇惊讶地微微张开，然后把头发掖到耳后，尴尬地低头看着地板。“嗯，谢谢你。”

“Please don’t mention it,” he said, sounding gravely sincere. “To anyone.” 
“请不要提这件事，”他说，听起来非常真诚。“对任何人。”

Toes pressing and lifting nervously in her shoes, Hermione felt an overwhelming need to explain her presence. “I must have had a dream. I woke up and I wasn’t sure where I was but then I came into the corridor and recognised it and I—”
脚趾在她的鞋子里紧张地压迫和抬起，赫敏觉得迫不及待地需要解释她的存在。“我一定做了个梦。我醒来后不确定自己在哪里，但后来我走进走廊，认出了它，然后我——”

“Decided to interrupt me.”
“决定打断我。”

“Interrupt you in the process of what?” Hermione asked, looking around the quiet office and then back at him. He certainly didn’t appear to be busy.
“打断你什么？”赫敏问道，环顾了一下安静的办公室，然后又看向他。他看起来当然并不忙。

Lucius lifted a glass from his desk and waved it at her. “Having a lovely drink.” There was a very slight slur in his words that prompted Hermione to narrow her eyes and inspect him more closely. 
卢修斯从桌上拿起一个杯子，向她挥了挥手。“喝一杯好酒。”他的话语中带着非常轻微的含糊不清，促使赫敏眯起眼睛，更仔细地打量着他。

“Mr Malfoy, have you gone to bed?”
“马尔福先生，你上床睡觉了吗？”

“Mr Malfoy, have you gone to bed?” He mimicked her in a mocking falsetto that made her mouth fall open. “No.” He cleared his throat. “I have not. Obviously .” 
“马尔福先生，你上床睡觉了吗？”他模仿她嘲讽的假声，让她张大了嘴巴。“不。”他清了清嗓子。“我没有。 显然。

“What,” Hermione said, a mocking edge to her own voice, “so you’re trying to drink yourself into unconsciousness?” 
“什么，”赫敏说，她自己的声音里带着嘲讽的意味，“所以你是想把自己喝到失去知觉吗？

“Trying being the operative word, Miss Granger.”
“试着当个关键词，格兰杰小姐。”

Approaching him, Hermione saw more clearly that there was a bottle by his elbow and that he had managed to drink quite a significant amount of it. “Don’t you think a Dreamless Sleep would be better? I’m sure Draco could whip you one up in—"
赫敏走近他，更清楚地看到他的胳膊肘旁边有一个瓶子，而且他已经喝了不少。“你不觉得无梦睡眠会更好吗？我敢肯定德拉科能把你打进去——”

There was a discordant clink of glass on glass as Lucius abruptly pulled open one of the drawers in his desk. He beckoned Hermione closer and she stepped hesitantly around the side of his desk to peer into the drawer. It was packed with full potion vials, all easily identifiable by their milky purple colour as Dreamless Sleep. She looked up at him and saw he was still staring into the drawer. 
当Lucius突然拉开他书桌上的一个抽屉时，玻璃与玻璃发出不和谐的碰撞声。他向赫敏招手，赫敏犹豫地绕过他的桌子边，向抽屉里看去。里面装满了装满药剂的小瓶，从它们乳紫色的乳紫色很容易辨认出是无梦之眠。她抬头看着他，发现他仍然盯着抽屉。

“Draco has whipped up quite a few already,” he murmured. He closed the drawer with a suddenness that made Hermione flinch and step back.
“德拉科已经鞭打了不少了，”他喃喃自语道。他突然关上了抽屉，这让赫敏畏缩了一下，向后退了一步。

“Then why don’t you take one? Surely it has to be better than…” she trailed off, pointing to the firewhiskey. 
“那你为什么不拿一个呢？肯定比......”她慢慢地走开，指着那杯火威士忌。

“Have you ever been in a Dreamless Sleep, Miss Granger?” Lucius asked, picking his glass up again and dangling it between his fingers carelessly. 
“你有没有睡过无梦，格兰杰小姐？”卢修斯问道，又拿起杯子，漫不经心地在手指间晃来晃去。

“Once…” Hermione said slowly, “I couldn’t sleep after…" She swallowed. "Yes, I’ve been in one.”
“曾经......”赫敏缓缓地说道，“之后我睡不着......”她咽了口口水。“是的，我去过。”

“Pleasant, isn’t it?” he asked, his expression searching as he looked at her.
“很愉快，不是吗？” 他问道，他的表情在看着她时显得格外寻觅。

“Yes.” She nodded, recalling the floaty thoughtlessness that had preceded the deepest sleep she’d ever had. “I suppose it was.”
“是的。”她点点头，回想起她有史以来最深的睡眠之前的飘浮的漫不经心。“我想是的。”

“Something one could grow quite…attached to.” He took a drink. “Particularly if one doesn’t find much pleasure in being awake.”
“一个人可以长得很......依附于。他喝了一杯。“特别是如果一个人在清醒时找不到多少乐趣。”

Hermione eyed him up and down. He looked more rumpled than she’d ever seen him, his eyes bleary and a few of the buttons on his shirt undone. She wasn’t sure she’d ever seen so much of his neck. 
赫敏上下打量着他。他看起来比她见过的他更皱巴巴的，他的眼睛模糊不清，衬衫上的几颗纽扣解开了。她不确定自己是否见过他这么多的脖子。

“My mother was very attached to Dreamless Sleep,” he said conversationally, turning in his chair to set down his drink. Hermione’s heart skipped a beat when he said ‘mother’; he never spoke about her. “I would rather not follow in her footsteps.”
“我妈妈非常喜欢无梦睡眠，”他侃侃而谈地说，一边在椅子上转过身来放下他的饮料。赫敏说“妈妈”时，他的心跳加快了一拍;他从来没有提起过她。“我宁愿不追随她的脚步。”

She shook her head. “I didn’t kn—”
她摇了摇头。“我不知道——”

“Of course you didn’t,” he said dismissively. “You couldn’t. No one did. Except for my father and myself. He rather encouraged it, actually. Thought unconsciousness was a good hobby for her. Kept her out of bother.” Malfoy took another drink and then looked over at Hermione with a bitter smile as he swallowed. “She was such a bother,” he said, his voice weighed down with sarcasm. 
“你当然没有，”他轻蔑地说。“你不能。没有人这样做。除了我父亲和我自己。实际上，他反而鼓励了它。认为失去知觉对她来说是一个很好的爱好。让她不被打扰。马尔福又喝了一口，然后看着赫敏，带着苦涩的笑容吞咽了一口。“她真是个麻烦，”他说，他的声音里带着讽刺。

Hermione’s mouth was dry. She shouldn’t have come. If she’d thought he was tipsy once before, he was much closer to being drunk now. He probably wasn’t meaning to tell her half of what he was and he would make her pay for it when he remembered. If he remembered.
赫敏的嘴巴干涩。她不该来的。如果她以前认为他喝醉了，那么他现在更接近喝醉了。他可能不是想告诉她他是什么的一半，他想起来后会让她付出代价。 如果他记得的话。

“Mr Malfoy, I really don’t think—”
“马尔福先生，我真的不觉得——”

“Oh, don’t act as if you don’t want to know, Miss Granger. You want to know everything . Don’t you?”
“噢，别装作你不想知道的样子，格兰杰小姐。你想知道一切 .不是吗？

She didn’t know what to say to that and he grinned wolfishly. “So quiet, all of a sudden. Only wanted to know the dirty secrets of my family when you could dig them up yourself, is that it? Only want the knowledge you can use against me to prove that I’m not—to prove you’re not—”
她不知道该怎么说，他狼狈地笑了笑。“好安静，突然之间。我家的肮脏秘密，你自己都能挖出来，就这样吗？我只想用你能用来对付我的知识来证明我不是——证明你不是——”

He broke off and rubbed at his face, placing his forefinger and thumb on his eyelids and pressing down. Hermione used his distraction to take a few more steps back. 
他停下来，揉了揉自己的脸，把食指和拇指放在他的眼睑上，然后向下压。赫敏趁着他的分心，又后退了几步。

“She had a photo album,” he said suddenly, opening his eyes and looking around the room. “I wouldn’t be surprised if my father moved it in here when she died. He took everything else she had.”
“她有一本相册，”他突然说，睁开眼睛环顾房间。“如果我父亲在她去世后把它搬到这里，我不会感到惊讶。他拿走了她拥有的一切。

His face crumpled momentarily and then evened out as he looked at Hermione. “It might interest you. You like the past, don’t you? Merlin only knows why. Go and have a look while you’re here.” He waved her over to the bookcase. “Perhaps there are some photos you might be able to use.”
他的脸瞬间皱了起来，然后在看着赫敏时变得平稳了。“你可能会感兴趣。你喜欢过去，不是吗？只有梅林知道为什么。趁你在这里的时候去看看。他挥手示意她走向书架。“也许你可以用一些照片。”

Glancing over her shoulder at him, Hermione wandered over towards the bookcase, not entirely sure what she was looking for. Would it say ‘photo album’? Maybe it was best to look for something without words on the spine at all. Remembering what Malfoy had said about less than friendly books in his home, she felt somewhat hesitant about lifting anything out.
赫敏回头看了他一眼，然后朝书架走去，不完全确定自己在找什么。它会说 'photo album' 吗？也许最好找个书脊上根本没有文字的东西。想起马尔福说过他家里不那么友好的书，她对拿出任何东西感到有些犹豫。

Running her fingers along the shelf beneath the books, Hermione mouthed the titles to herself. In any other situation she would have relished having his permission to rifle through his personal collection but in some odd way she felt like she was taking advantage of his state. It was making it hard to feel entirely comfortable. 
赫敏用手指在书下面的书架上滑行，对自己说着这些书名。在任何其他情况下，她都会很高兴得到他的允许来翻阅他的私人收藏，但以某种奇怪的方式，她觉得自己在利用他的状态。这让我很难感到完全舒适。

"A lot of your books aren't in English," Hermione noted with interest as her finger ran under a book in French, followed by another in Latin and another in Mermish , of all things. The spine of the Mermish book shimmered curiously in the flickering light from the fireplace, like it was made from scales. A shiver passed through her. "How many languages do you speak?" she asked, glancing over her shoulder.
“你的很多书都不是英文的，”赫敏饶有兴趣地注意到，她的手指在一本法语书下面滑过，然后是一本拉丁文的书，一本是梅尔米什书，总之。《美人鱼》书的书脊在壁炉摇曳的灯光下奇异地闪闪发光，就像它是用鳞片制成的。她全身一战栗。“你会说多少种语言？” 她问道，回头瞥了一眼。

"Five. No, six," he mumbled into his glass. " Wait, seven? Yes, seven."
“五。不，六个人，“他对着酒杯喃喃自语。“等等，七？是的，七次。

" Seven ?" Hermione choked out, abandoning her search to turn and look at him properly. His elbow was leaning on his desk and he had propped his chin on his hand, simply looking at her while his other hand held his glass. 
“七？”赫敏哽咽着说，放弃了她的寻找，转过身来好好地看着他。他的胳膊肘靠在桌子上，用手撑着下巴，只是看着她，另一只手拿着酒杯。

"...yes," he said slowly, puzzled by her reaction. "Is that a problem?"
"...是的，“他缓缓地说，对她的反应感到困惑。“有问题吗？”

Hermione laughed disbelievingly. "Well, no, it's not a problem . It's just…well, it's a lot isn't it?"
赫敏难以置信地笑了起来。“嗯，不，这不是问题。只是......嗯，很多，不是吗？

"It's diplomacy, Miss Granger," he replied, his brow lowered. "Useful in a Ministry setting. People tend not to like it when you opt for speaking more loudly in English over learning their native tongue, you see."
“这是外交，格兰杰小姐，”他回答道，眉毛垂下。“在魔法部环境中很有用。你看，当你选择用英语大声说话而不是学习他们的母语时，人们往往不喜欢它。

"Seven," Hermione murmured, looking over her shoulder at the shelves. Turning back to him with a frown, she asked, "How did you find the time?"
“七，”赫敏喃喃自语，回头看向书架。她皱着眉头转身看向他，问道：“你是怎么找到时间的？

Her tone was more challenging, more aggressive, than she meant it to be and she nipped her tongue between her teeth. A small smile tugged at the corners of his lips. A teasing, curious smile.
她的语气比她本来想的更具有挑战性，更具侵略性，她用牙齿咬住了舌头。他的嘴角勾起一丝微笑。一个戏谑的、好奇的微笑。

"My proficiency with languages seems to bother you."
“我的语言熟练程度似乎让你很困扰。”

"It doesn't," Hermione said shortly, a clenching in her stomach. Was she lying? Maybe. No, it didn't bother her, it just made her feel–
“没有，”赫敏很快说，肚子紧紧地捏着。她在撒谎吗？或。不，这并没有困扰她，只是让她觉得——

"You seem…" Lucius sat up straight and then leaned back in his chair to cross one leg over the other, assessing her from across the room. "Jealous?"
“你看起来......”卢修斯坐直了身子，然后靠在椅子上，将一条腿交叉在另一条腿上，从房间的另一头打量着她。“嫉妒？”

Her stomach dropped. Jealous . "I am not jealous. Certainly not of you." Hermione turned on her heel and began searching the bookcase again, her cheeks warm and her eyes not actually reading anything. 
她的胃一沉。 嫉妒。“我不嫉妒。当然不是你。赫敏转过身来，又开始在书架上找找，她的脸颊温暖，她的眼睛实际上什么也没看。

He’d probably had a million tutors growing up and Hogwarts didn't even offer to teach magical languages which was, frankly, ludicrous.
他可能在成长过程中有一百万个导师，而霍格沃茨甚至没有提出教授魔法语言，坦率地说，这很荒谬。

He'd had nothing but time at school, too, for such personal studies; no evil plots to foil. Certainly not every single bloody year. 
他在学校也只有时间进行这种个人研究;没有邪恶的阴谋需要挫败。当然不是每一年都是血腥的一年。

She hadn’t even known mermaids were real until the age of 11, never mind that they had their own language.
她甚至直到 11 岁才知道美人鱼是真实的，更不用说她们有自己的语言了。

How was she supposed to –
她怎么能——

"Feelings of inadequacy can be good for motivation, Miss Granger," came his voice from behind her. There was a vindictively delighted lilt to it that made her grit her teeth. "Perhaps look for the positive."
“感觉不足对动力有好处，格兰杰小姐，”他的声音从她身后传来。它有一种报复性的喜悦，使她咬紧牙关。“也许寻找积极的一面。”

"I do not feel inadequate," she ground out, scowling at the book in front of her. "I could learn just as many languages as you if I wanted to."
“我不觉得自己不够格，”她停下脚步，对着面前的书皱起眉头。“如果我愿意，我可以学多少种语言。”

"Of course you could, dear," he said soothingly. 
“你当然可以，亲爱的，”他安慰地说。

"Don't call me that," Hermione snapped, turning her head to throw her scowl over her shoulder at him, only to discover that he wasn't even looking at her any more. He had turned to look out the window behind his desk. 
“别这么叫我，”赫敏厉声说，转过头来，皱着眉头看着他，却发现他甚至不再看她一眼。他转过身来，看向桌子后面的窗外。

Huffing, Hermione crouched down and searched some of the lower shelves. He was the most annoying person. Her fingertips skimmed over a red leather spine, covetously murmuring the runic title. With a most wonderful collection of books.
赫敏气喘吁吁地蹲下身子，搜寻了一些较低的架子。他是最烦人的人。她的指尖掠过红色的皮革书脊，贪婪地喃喃自语着这个符文的标题。拥有最精彩的书籍收藏。

Straightening up, Hermione placed her hands on her hips with a sigh and looked along the shelves. It would take her a while to search them all.
赫敏直起身来，双手放在臀部上，叹了口气，沿着书架看了看。她需要一段时间才能全部搜索。

“Have you found it?”
“你找到了吗？”

Hermione jumped at the nearness of Malfoy’s voice and half-turned to find him standing quite closely behind her. He wasn’t looking at her, but at the shelves above her eye line. Given how much he’d had to drink, it was remarkable he was quite as steady on his feet.
赫敏被马尔福的声音吓得跳了起来，半转身发现他站在她身后。他没有看她，而是看向她视线上方的架子。考虑到他喝了那么多酒，他的脚步还是那么稳，真是太了不起了。

“No,” she said, her voice muted. He was quite a bit taller than her. That had always been obvious, she supposed, but it had never felt this obvious.
“不，”她说，声音低沉。他比她高不少。她想，这一直都是显而易见的，但从来没有这么明显过。

He wasn’t any closer to her than he’d been in the greenhouse but something about the dim lighting of the room and the sense of vulnerability that accompanied recently having woken up made him feel closer. 
他和她的距离并不比在温室里时更近，但房间里昏暗的灯光和最近醒来的脆弱感让他感觉更亲近了。

She could see his chest rising and falling, the slight bob of his Adam’s apple as he swallowed, and, eyes travelling up, she spied the faintest signs of grey-blonde stubble on his sharp jaw. He was so close, he seemed to block out the rest of the room behind him. 
她可以看到他的胸膛起伏，吞咽时喉结的轻微摆动，而且，她眯着眼睛往上看，发现他尖锐的下巴上有灰金色的胡茬最微弱的迹象。他离得太近了，似乎挡住了他身后房间的其余部分。

“The shelves are the other way, dear,” he murmured patronisingly, eyes flicking down to meet hers.
“书架是另一边的，亲爱的，”他居高临下地喃喃自语，眼睛向下眨了眨，与她的对视。

As though caught doing something terribly shameful, Hermione turned her head swiftly to scour the bookcase with exaggerated assiduousness, a curious, irritated knot forming in her stomach. 
赫敏仿佛被抓到做了什么可怕的可耻的事情，她迅速地转过头来，夸张地勤奋地翻找着书柜，一个好奇的、恼怒的结在她的胃里打结。

"I told you not to call me that," she said tightly, pulling out a book to inspect its cover because its spine was too faded to read. She could barely even remember what she was supposed to be looking for any more. 
“我说过你别这么叫我，”她紧紧地说，拿出一本书检查封面，因为它的书脊已经褪色了，无法阅读。她甚至几乎记不清她应该再寻找什么了。

"That's why I'm doing it," he responded, reaching over her head to do the same. "You're quite expressive when you're angry. It's exceedingly amusing."
“这就是我这样做的原因，”他回答道，伸手越过她的头也做了同样的事情。“你生气的时候很有表现力。这真是太有趣了。

Pink splotches formed on Hermione's cheeks as she stared straight ahead at the books. “You can't count 'rude irritant' as one of the languages you speak, you know," she said. "No matter how fluent you are."
赫敏的脸颊上形成了粉红色的斑点，她直视着前方的书。“你知道，你不能把'粗鲁的刺激性'算作你说的语言之一，”她说。“无论你有多流利。”

“No,” he murmured absently, reading the book title and pushing it back into the shelf. “But if I could, then I suppose I’d speak eight. And that would bring your count up to…what, one and a half?”
“不，”他心不在焉地喃喃自语，读着书名，把它推回书架上。“但如果可以的话，我想我会说八句话。这将使您的计数达到......什么，一个半？

Hermione sharply inhaled, her whole body tensing, and shot a glare over her shoulder.  Lucius met her eyes and, to her fury, she saw clear amusement in his expression. “Two, then,” he said, as though he was being indulgently generous.
赫敏猛地吸了一口气，整个身体都绷紧了，然后瞪了她一眼。卢修斯与她的眼睛对上，令她愤怒的是，她从他的表情中看到了明显的好笑。“那么，两个，”他说，仿佛他正在慷慨大方。

Prick . She was going to…she would…Hermione took a deep breath and focused on unclenching her fist.
刺。她要......她会......赫敏深吸一口气，专注于松开她紧握的拳头。

Nothing. She wasn't going to do anything. This was not third year. He was not Draco. She wouldn't give him the satisfaction. She would simply fantasise about bringing her elbow back into his stomach with all the force she could muster. Hermione turned her head back to what she'd been doing, the thought of Malfoy doubled over and wheezing affording her a strange kind of serenity. 
无。她什么都不打算做。这不是第三年。他不是德拉科。她不会让他满意。她只是幻想着用她能鼓起的所有力量把她的肘部放回他的肚子里。赫敏把头转回她一直在做的事情上，马尔福的念头翻了个身，喘息着给了她一种奇怪的平静。

Can’t speak any language when someone’s knocked all the air out of your lungs, Malfoy .
当有人把你肺里的空气都打掉时，他不会说任何语言，马尔福。

Clearly oblivious to the violent train of her thoughts, he took a step closer to lift a book from the highest shelf, looming over her to do so. Hermione inhaled as she saw his shadow subsume hers, taking in the increasingly familiar scent of his bergamot cologne. A discomfited heat suffusing her cheeks as she realised she actually liked it. It was too nice for someone like him .
显然，他没有注意到她那剧烈的思绪，他走近一步，从最高的书架上拿起了一本书，在她面前若隐若现。赫敏看到他的影子吞没了她的影子，吸了一口气，吸收着他越来越熟悉的佛手柑古龙水的香味。一股不安的热度弥漫在她的脸颊上，因为她意识到她真的喜欢它。对于像他这样的人来说，这太好了。

She shuffled closer to the shelves, feet barely leaving the ground, to put some more distance between his chest and her back.
她拖着脚步靠近书架，双脚几乎不离开地面，以便在他的胸部和她的背部之间拉开一些距离。

It was as Malfoy returned the book he had taken out that Hermione noticed she had read the same book title five times, her mind more focused on the strange pressure his body seemed to be exuding. It was so strong she could feel it all the way down her back, like he was physically pressed against her.
当马尔福把他拿出来的书还给他时，赫敏注意到她已经把同样的书名读了五遍，她的心思更集中在他身体似乎散发出来的奇怪压力上。它是如此强烈，她能感觉到它一直沿着她的背部，就像他被身体压在她身上一样。

The unexpected weight of two large hands on her hips made Hermione swallow a breath, almost choking on it, and she tensed to the degree that a fall would likely have shattered her. Glancing down she saw they were Malfoy’s hands. Who else’s? 
两只大手在她臀部上出乎意料的重量让赫敏咽了口气，几乎要呛到喘不过气来，她绷紧了，以至于摔倒可能会把她砸碎。她低头一瞥，发现那是马尔福的手。还有谁的？

They briefly tightened, his fingertips pressing against her hip bone, his thumbs settling into the channels on either side of her spine, and then they were...moving her?
他们短暂地收紧了，他的指尖压在她的髋骨上，他的拇指安顿在她脊柱两侧的通道中，然后他们......感动她？

“You look over there,” he said, distractedly. “There's no point in us searching the same space.”
“你看那边，”他心不在焉地说。“我们搜索同一个空间是没有意义的。”

He turned, oblivious to Hermione’s state of disbelief. He seemed not to have even noticed that he’d laid a hand on her and yet she could still feel the heat of it, the weight of it, the casual intimacy of it. 
他转过身来，对赫敏的不敢置信的状态视而不见。他似乎甚至没有注意到他已经把手放在了她身上，但她仍然能感觉到它的热量，它的重量，它随意的亲密。

Raising her own hands, Hermione pressed them against her hips, for some reason desiring to feel what he would have felt. Just rough denim and a lingering… something . An itchiness.
赫敏抬起自己的手，把它们压在她的臀部上，不知为何，她想感受一下他会有什么感受。只是粗糙的牛仔布和挥之不去的......东西。瘙痒。

Lowering her hands and raising her eyes, she watched him reach up, pull a book halfway out and then push it back with a dissatisfied mutter. 
她垂下双手，抬起眼睛，看着他伸出手，把一本书拉了一半，然后不满地咕哝着把它推了回去。

“I think I should probably go, Mr Malfoy. It’s late… early. It’s…” she trailed off into a mumble because he clearly wasn’t listening anyway. 
“我想我可能应该走了，马尔福先生。已经很晚了......早。这是......”她喃喃自语起来，因为他显然根本没在听。

Malfoy glanced over at her, brow furrowed, apparently hearing her on a delay. He waved a dismissive hand. “Yes, off you go. I’ll tell you next week if I find the thing.”
马尔福瞥了她一眼，皱起了眉头，显然听到了她的延迟。他不屑一顾地挥了挥手。“是的，你走吧。如果我找到那东西，我下周再告诉你。

When Hermione closed the door behind her, Malfoy was still scouring his bookcase. She stopped outside in the corridor, trying to wrestle with the strangeness of the conversation they’d just had. 
当赫敏在她身后关上门时，马尔福还在翻找他的书柜。她停在外面的走廊上，试图与刚才他们谈话的奇怪作斗争。

Absolutely certain that she wouldn’t be able to sleep in Malfoy Manor, Hermione leaned into the guest room to collect her bag and returned to her own flat through the library Floo. In the end, she couldn’t get to sleep there either.
赫敏绝对确定自己无法在马尔福庄园睡觉，她靠进客房收拾行李，然后通过图书馆飞路回到了自己的公寓。最后，她也没能在那里睡觉。

Chapter 18
第十八章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione returns for another meeting and there's chaos in the library.
赫敏回来参加另一次会议，图书馆里一片混乱。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾June 15th
6 月 15 日  

“When Voldemort returned, how did you feel?”
“当伏地魔回来时，你感觉如何？”

Hermione reclined in her seat and crossed her legs, fixing Malfoy with an expectant look. They were back in his study, this time in the bright light of day. He didn’t look like he’d been drinking and Hermione silently noted that there were no bottles or empty glasses on his desk. 
赫敏斜靠在座位上，盘起双腿，用期待的眼神注视着马尔福。他们回到了他的书房，这一次是在明亮的阳光下。他看起来不像是在喝酒，赫敏默默地注意到他的桌子上没有瓶子或空杯子。

She’d managed to avoid bumping into him for the week following their conversation in his study, keeping herself cloistered in the library and hoping he wouldn’t seek her out to make her pay for what he’d told her. Now that she was sitting across from him and he wasn’t treating her any differently than usual, she wondered if he even remembered it at all.
在他们在他的书房里谈话后的一周里，她设法避免了碰到他，把自己关在图书馆里，希望他不会找到她，让她为他告诉她的事情付出代价。现在她坐在他对面，他对她没有和平时有任何不同，她想知道他是否还记得这件事。

“We’re getting right to the point today, aren’t we?”
“我们今天正好说到点子上，不是吗？”

“Well, when I didn’t do that last time you whined about it.”
“嗯，上次我没这样做的时候，你抱怨它。”

The barest hint of a pout formed on his lips. “I do not whine .”
他的嘴唇上露出了最微弱的噘嘴。“我不抱怨。”

“Like a ghoul in an attic,” Hermione said, smirking at the irritation that flashed over his face. “You could have avoided that jibe if you’d just answered the perfectly simple question I asked.”
“就像阁楼里的食尸鬼，”赫敏说，对他脸上闪过的恼怒得意地笑着。“如果你只是回答了我问的那个非常简单的问题，你本可以避免这种嘲讽。”

“You ask a simple question but it doesn’t have a simple answer,” he pointed out, leaning back and crossing his legs. 
“你问了一个简单的问题，但它没有一个简单的答案，”他指出，向后靠着，盘起双腿。

“Can you try to explain it?”
“你能试着解释一下吗？”

“Miss Granger.” He picked some invisible dust from the leg of his trousers, his tone conveying the kind of boredom that accompanies explaining something to a particularly tiresome child. “When the Dark Lord was at the height of his power my life was very different to the way it was on his return. I was very different.”
“格兰杰小姐。”他从裤腿上捡了一些看不见的灰尘，他的语气传达出一种无聊，这种无聊伴随着对一个特别令人厌烦的孩子解释某事。“当黑魔王处于权力的巅峰时，我的生活与他回来时截然不同。 我非常不同。

“In what ways?”
“以什么方式？”

“I was comfortable. Successful at the Ministry. Happy with my wife and son. I was more than a decade older, too. I’d been out of his service almost longer than I’d been in it.”
“我很舒服。在事工中取得成功。对我的妻子和儿子很满意。我也大了十多年。我离开他的服务时间几乎比我在他那里的时间还要长。

“But Draco said there was always an atmosphere of regret in the manor that Voldemort lost.”
“但德拉科说，那个庄园里总是弥漫着对伏地魔失去的遗憾的气氛。”

“Of course there was." He shrugged. “We regretted the loss of a future that might have been. Those visions of the future are rarely reflective of what would have actually happened and always infinitely more appealing than the present.”
“当然有。”他耸耸肩。“我们很遗憾失去了本来可能的未来。那些对未来的憧憬很少能反映出实际发生的事情，而且总是比现在更具吸引力。

“And you recognised that at the time?” Hermione asked, eyebrows furrowed doubtfully.
“你当时就意识到了？”赫敏疑惑地皱起眉头问道。

“Not always,” he said, gaze drifting off to the side. “I suppose hindsight is playing a part here. We did not so much regret the Dark Lord’s loss as much as the loss of the cause. They’d become rather bound up in one another, which was, I imagine, his design.”
“不总是，”他说，目光飘向一边。“我想事后诸葛亮在这里起了作用。与其说我们惋惜黑魔王的损失，不如说是事业的损失。他们彼此之间变得相当紧密，我想这就是他的设计。

“You yourself told me in our last meeting that your faith in him had been shaken, so why did you go back to him when he returned?”
“你自己在我们上次见面时告诉我，你对他的信心已经动摇了，那么为什么当他回来时，你又回到他身边呢？”

Lucius smiled but it didn’t quite reach his eyes. “Miss Granger, I noted when reading your interviews with him that Mr Longbottom endured a very challenging adolescence.”
卢修斯笑了笑，但并没有完全到达他的眼睛。“格兰杰小姐，我在阅读你对他的采访时注意到，隆巴顿先生经历了一个非常具有挑战性的青春期。”

Opening her mouth, Hermione hesitated and eyed Malfoy with a frown. “I don’t really see where you’re—”
赫敏张开嘴，犹豫了一下，皱着眉头看着马尔福。“我真的看不清你在哪儿——”

“His parents were very brave,” Malfoy continued, lowering his voice with a sort of mock reverence that made Hermione ball her hand into a fist. “Incredibly admirable. But that didn’t do him much good, did it?”
“他的父母非常勇敢，”马尔福继续说道，压低了声音，带着一种嘲讽的崇敬，使赫敏的手握成了拳头。“难以置信地令人钦佩。但这对他没有多大好处，不是吗？

Hermione stared at him, eyes wide and disbelieving. The man didn’t have respect for anything .
赫敏盯着他，睁大了眼睛，难以置信。这个男人什么都不尊重。

“Had I not returned to the Dark Lord,” he said, “I would have been dead within weeks. Months, if I was very wily and clever, which I so often am. My wife and son would have been left alone, utterly exposed to him. Helpless and unprotected. My point is, I was more useful to them alive and with them.”
“如果我没有回到黑魔王那里，”他说，“我几周内就会死去。几个月，如果我非常狡猾和聪明，我经常是这样。我的妻子和儿子会独自一人，完全暴露在他面前。无助且没有保护。我的观点是，我对活着和他们在一起更有用。

“Are you saying that if you could have run with them, you would have?”
“你是说，如果你能和他们一起跑，你就会这样做？”

“I’m saying that they were safest with me which meant, by extension, that they were safest with the Dark Lord.”
“我是说他们在我这里最安全，这意味着，推而广之，他们在黑魔王那里是最安全的。”

“Wouldn’t you have done better to hide them, then?” she asked, growing frustrated. “If you truly wanted them to be safe?”
“那么，你把它们藏起来不是更好吗？”“如果你真的希望他们安全吗？”

“It’s very hard to hide from the Dark Lord, Miss Granger. Very few manage it. Just take Karkaroff; he barely made it –” Lucius stopped abruptly, his chin raising and his eyes narrowing as he surveyed her. Hermione felt like she was being examined for a flaw. “Foolish of me,” he murmured. “You already know something about hiding from the Dark Lord, don’t you?” 
“躲过黑魔王真是太难了，格兰杰小姐。很少有人能做到。就拿 Karkaroff 来说;他勉强活了下来——“卢修斯突然停了下来，抬起下巴，眯起眼睛打量着她。赫敏觉得自己好像在接受检查，看她有没有缺陷。“我真愚蠢，”他喃喃自语。“你已经知道一些关于躲避黑魔王的事情了，不是吗？”

“Me?” Hermione asked, her voice rising an octave with surprise. Surely he of all people would remember that she, Harry and Ron had been caught. Quite spectacularly, in fact. 
“我？”赫敏问道，她的声音惊讶地提高了一个八度。他肯定记得她、哈利和罗恩被抓住了。事实上，相当壮观。

“Your parents.”
“你的父母。”

Oh . Hermione’s stomach dropped. 
哦。赫敏的肚子一沉。

“What did you do with them?” he asked, a subtle, interrogative edge to his otherwise light voice. On seeing her eyes widen, he nodded gravely. “Oh, yes, he looked. Not a hair to be found. It…made an impression on me, shall we say. Kept my mind occupied for a frustrating few weeks. Then, of course, other things rather took precedence.” Lucius, elbow leaning on the arm of his chair, raised his hand to rub the edge of his forefinger under his lower lip. “So, how did you do it?”
“你对他们做了什么？” 他问道，原本轻松的声音中带着微妙的质问。看到她睁大了眼睛，他严肃地点了点头。“哦，对了，他看了。一根头发都找不到。它。。。给我留下了深刻的印象，容我们说。让我的头脑忙碌了几周，令人沮丧。然后，当然，其他事情更优先。卢修斯的手肘靠在椅子的扶手上，抬起手在下唇下揉了揉食指的边缘。“那么，你是怎么做到的？”

“I wiped…” Hermione cleared her throat. “I wiped their memories,” she said, her tongue feeling thick and too large for her mouth. “Of me. Of everything. Then I moved them to another country.” 
“我擦了......”赫敏清了清嗓子。“我抹去了他们的记忆，”她说，她的舌头感觉很粗，对她的嘴来说太大了。“我。一切。然后我把他们搬到了另一个国家。

Voldemort was dead and the man before her was technically no longer a Death Eater, yet she still couldn’t bring herself to reveal which country she’d left her parents in. Even one as large as Australia.
伏地魔已经死了，而她面前的这个男人严格来说已经不再是食死徒了，但她仍然无法透露她把父母留在了哪个国家。甚至像澳大利亚一样大。

Malfoy’s eyebrows lifted fractionally. “Drastic.” 
马尔福的眉毛微微扬起。“非常激烈。”

“Nothing’s drastic when it comes to protecting the ones you love,” Hermione said, her voice sharp and her jaw set. That’s what she told herself repeatedly when she’d done the deed and she’d continued to do so ever since. 
“说到保护你爱的人，没有什么大不了的，”赫敏说，她的声音尖锐，下巴紧绷。这是她在做这件事时反复告诉自己的，从那以后她一直这样做。

Malfoy half smiled, his head tilted and his eyes searching. “I’ll remember you said that, Miss Granger. Not that I disagree.” He looked down at the hand resting on the arm of his chair and then back up at her. “Tell me,” he said, a predatory gleam in his eyes. “Did they make the decision or did you make it for them?”
马尔福半笑半笑，歪着头，眼睛在寻找。“我会记得你说过的，格兰杰小姐。并不是说我不同意。他低头看了看放在椅子扶手上的手，然后又抬起头看向她。“告诉我，”他说，眼中闪过掠夺性的光芒。“是他们做了决定，还是你替他们做了决定？”

Hermione didn’t need to answer – her guilt, writ plain on her face, did it for her. Malfoy’s only response was to nod once, which made Hermione’s nostrils flare; his acceptance of her decision was no comfort. 
赫敏不需要回答——她的罪恶感，直白地写在她的脸上，对她来说就是这样。马尔福唯一的反应就是点头，这让赫敏的鼻孔张大了;他接受她的决定并不令人欣慰。

“Memory charms can be very complex,” he said softly. “Temperamental, too. Each mind is a variable in and of itself and when dealing with minds that are not, shall we say, fully cooperative… well , that’s another layer of difficulty.”
“记忆咒可能非常复杂，”他轻声说。“也是喜怒无常的。每个心智本身就是一个变量，当与那些不完全合作的心智打交道时......嗯，这是另一层困难。

“Yes, I know.”
“是的，我知道。”

He’d found the thread, she knew, and she could tell he would insist on pulling on it. “You were a young witch. Talented, I don’t doubt. But young.”
她知道，他已经找到了那根线，而且她看得出来他会坚持要拉它。“你是个年轻的女巫。我不怀疑他很有才华。但年轻。

“Yes,” she said more stiffly. “I know.”
“是的，”她更生硬地说。“我知道。”

“Ah,” he said, understanding lighting his eyes. “Tragedy?”
“啊，”他说，理解地照亮了他的眼睛。“悲剧？”

“I couldn’t undo it,” Hermione said, her voice tight and a heavy feeling in her chest. She was shocked, after so many years, to feel tears pricking so insistently at the corners of her eyes and even more shocked that Lucius Malfoy looked almost sympathetic. 
“我无法挽回它，”赫敏说，她的声音紧绷，胸口有一种沉重的感觉。这么多年过去了，她感到泪水如此执着地在她的眼角刺痛，更震惊的是卢修斯·马尔福看起来几乎是同情的。

“It’s painful to discover that some acts of magic are irreversible,” he said, lifting his chin from his fist and looking off to the side. “It somehow doesn’t fit with our world, does it? Everything is supposed to be so…” He twirled his fingers. “Changeable. Controllable. Reversible .”
“发现有些魔法行为是不可逆转的，这很痛苦，”他说，从拳头上抬起下巴，看向侧面。“它不知何故不适合我们的世界，对吧？一切都应该是这样的......”他转动着手指。“多变。可控制的。 可逆的。

Our world . He said it apparently without thought and yet the phrase struck Hermione with force. She pressed her lips together and, while his attention wasn’t directly on her, roughly wiped at the corner of her eyes to stop her tears escaping. 
我们的世界 .他显然是不假思索地说出来的，但这句话却使赫敏受到了强烈的打击。她紧紧地抿着嘴唇，趁他的注意力没有直接放在她身上，粗暴地擦了擦她的眼角，阻止她的眼泪流出来。

“They’re safe and alive, which is exactly what I wanted,” she said firmly, avoiding his eyes when the sound of her voice prompted him to look back around. “I have to take comfort in that.”
“他们很安全，还活着，这正是我想要的，”她坚定地说，当她的声音促使他回头看时，她避开了他的眼睛。“我必须为此感到欣慰。”

“Yes, you do,” said Lucius. “It’s the best way of living with those choices, isn’t it? The ones made in the dark staircase.” He tilted his head, offering her a smile that contained no mirth. “Perhaps you understand more than I gave you credit for, Miss Granger.”
“是的，你愿意，”卢修斯说。“这是与这些选择共存的最佳方式，不是吗？那些是在黑暗的楼梯里做的。他歪着头，向她露出一个没有笑意的微笑。“也许你比我给你的要明白更多，格兰杰小姐。”

Hermione drew in a breath and held it, her eyes sliding over to meet Malfoy’s once again. He was unblinking, sincere. “Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said quietly, “if you could have avoided going back to Voldemort for the second time, would you have?”
赫敏吸了一口气，屏住了呼吸，她的眼睛滑过来，再次与马尔福的眼睛相遇。他一眨不眨，真诚。“马尔福先生，”赫敏轻声说，“如果你能避免第二次回到伏地魔那里，你会吗？

“A pointless question.” He rolled his eyes and his head back so that his gaze was directed towards the ceiling. 
“一个毫无意义的问题。”他翻了个白眼，把头向后仰，目光直向天花板。

“Is it?”
“是吗？”

“Yes,” he said, still looking upwards. “Move on.”
“是的，”他说，仍然向上看。“继续。”

“Were you afraid?”
“你害怕吗？”

He rolled his head left then right. “I did have a great deal to fear, I suppose. I had not searched for him after his fall; I had disposed of his gift to me; and I’d denied my allegiance to him in the aftermath of the first war to save myself. I was aware that I had a number of transgressions to account for.”
他先是左转，又是右转。“我想，我确实有很多事情要担心。他跌倒后，我没有寻找他;我已经把他给我的礼物处理掉了;而我在第一次战争之后为了拯救自己而否认了我对他的忠诚。我知道我有很多违规行为需要解释。

“You mentioned his ‘gift’ to you. You mean his diary?” Malfoy nodded and Hermione scrunched her lips thoughtfully. “You really didn’t know about the Horcruxes?”
“你提到了他的'礼物'给你。你是说他的日记吗？马尔福点点头，赫敏若有所思地皱起嘴唇。“你真的不知道魂器吗？”

He shook his head slowly, a troubled frown forming on his brow. “No.”
他缓缓地摇了摇头，眉头上皱起了眉头。“不。”

“How do you feel knowing that you had one?”
“知道你有一只，你感觉如何？”

“It’s hard to say,” he said, twisting one of his rings around his finger, eyes fixed on it. “How should one feel when one is trusted with a fragment of a man’s soul but isn’t trusted enough to be told what it is? Confused is, perhaps, the right word – a right word – but it feels like an understatement.”
“这很难说，”他说，一边把他的一枚戒指扭在手指上，眼睛盯着它。“当一个人被信任拥有一个人灵魂的碎片，但又不够信任以至于无法被告知它是什么时，他应该有什么感受？困惑也许是正确的词——一个正确的词——但这感觉像是轻描淡写。

“Would you have given it to Ginny Weasley if you had known?” 
“如果你知道的话，你会把它送给金妮·韦斯莱吗？”

He stopped turning his ring and flicked his gaze up to hers from under his brow. His tongue flicked out to wet his lips and he lowered his hands. “No, I don’t think so.”
他停止转动他的戒指，从眉毛下抬头看向她。他的舌头伸出来弄湿了他的嘴唇，然后他放下了手。“不，我不这么认为。”

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“Well, that is rather an important thing for an eleven year old girl to have.”
“嗯，这对一个十一岁的女孩来说是一件相当重要的事情。”

“But you thought eleven was the perfect age for said girl to receive the key to the Chamber of Secrets?” Hermione’s tone was flat and almost mocking.
“但你认为十一岁是那个女孩收到密室钥匙的最佳年龄？”赫敏的语气平淡无奇，几乎是嘲讽。

“Well, they do say girls mature faster than boys,” he said glibly. Spotting Hermione’s glare he rolled his eyes and held his hands out to the side. “I just knew I couldn’t have it. Not with the Ministry’s raids taking place.”
“嗯，他们确实说女孩子比男孩成熟得快，”他轻描淡写地说。看到赫敏的目光，他翻了个白眼，把手伸到一边。“我只是知道我不能拥有它。在魔法部的突袭行动中，情况就不一样了。

“Why Ginny Weasley though?”
“为什么是金妮·韦斯莱？”

“Because she was there . Because I could. Because it was easy. Pick one.”
“因为她在那里。因为我能。因为它很容易。选一个。

“And it didn’t have anything to do with your long-standing dislike of the Weasleys?”
“那跟你长期以来对韦斯莱家的厌恶没关系吗？”

“A mere bonus,” Lucius said, waving a hand. “Do you know how frustrating I found it, Miss Granger, that I could not keep dark artefacts in my home without risking arrest while Arthur Weasley, head of the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts office, could continually misuse Muggle artefacts and be just fine? 
“不过是个额外的收获，”卢修斯挥了挥手。“你知道吗，格兰杰小姐，我不能在不冒着被捕的风险的情况下把黑暗的文物放在家里，而亚瑟·韦斯莱，滥用麻瓜文物办公室的负责人，却可以不断地滥用麻瓜文物，而且没事呢？

“Thanks to that man’s Muggle Protection Act, I couldn’t keep priceless family heirlooms that were hundreds of years old in the privacy of my own home but his son flew a car he modified across the country, risking the security of our world, and he got a fifty galleon fine and an enquiry. I ask you!”
“多亏了那个男人的《麻瓜保护法》，我没能把几百年前的无价传家宝放在自己家里，但他的儿子冒着我们世界安全的风险，把他改装的汽车开到了全国各地，他被罚款五十加隆，还被问了一遍。我问你！

A smile trembled at Hermione’s lips. “This is obviously a sore point.” 
赫敏的嘴唇上闪过一丝笑容。“这显然是一个痛点。”

Malfoy’s expression was scathing.“Don’t start. Miss Weasley was not strictly responsible for her father’s idiocy, it’s true, but my family heirlooms were not baiting Muggles any more than his headline-making car.”
马尔福的表情很严厉。不要开始。韦斯莱小姐并没有对她父亲的愚蠢负严格责任，这是真的，但我的传家宝并没有像他那辆成为头条新闻的汽车那样诱饵麻瓜。

“If she wasn’t responsible then why give her an obviously dark object?”
“如果她不负责任，那为什么要给她一个明显黑暗的东西？”

“Well, I didn’t expect her to actually be able to use it,” he snapped. “The Dark Lord informed me he could use the book to open the Chamber of Secrets but he never explained how . He just told me to wait for his instructions and, as far as I was concerned, he was dead. I combed the blasted thing looking for any hidden text and found nothing. How was I supposed to expect that chit of a girl would tap into Dark Magic that I couldn’t? She wasn’t even a Slytherin.”
“嗯，我没想到她真的能用它，”他厉声说。“黑魔王告诉我，他可以用这本书来打开密室，但他从未解释过怎么做。他只是告诉我等待他的指示，就我而言，他已经死了。我梳理了那个被炸毁的东西，寻找任何隐藏的文本，但什么也没找到。我怎么能指望那个女孩的闲聊会利用我无法利用的黑魔法呢？她甚至都不是斯莱特林。

Lucius looked away from her, smoothing the legs of his trousers. He appeared agitated and uncomfortable which took Hermione rather by surprise. It was a sign he might actually feel something even if he didn’t ever intend to acknowledge it.
卢修斯把目光从她身上移开，抚平了他的裤腿。他显得焦躁不安，这让赫敏颇为惊讶。这是一个迹象，即使他从来没有打算承认，他也可能真的感觉到了什么。

“What on earth did you think would happen?”
“你到底觉得会发生什么？”

“I thought she’d be caught with it!” he said, his voice rising. “Even I didn’t anticipate that security was so lax under Albus Dumbledore that a dark object like that would get into the school. I planned to demand that the board of governors launch an investigation and use the news that Arthur Weasley’s daughter had been discovered with a mysteriously dark magical object that could easily be picked up by a Muggle to quash the credibility of his absurd Muggle Protection Act.”
“我以为她会被抓住呢！”“就连我都没想到，在阿不思·邓布利多的治下，安保如此松懈，以至于像这样的黑暗物体会进入学校。我打算要求理事会展开调查，并利用亚瑟·韦斯莱的女儿被发现携带了一个神秘的黑色魔法物品的消息，这个物品很容易被麻瓜捡到，来推翻他荒谬的麻瓜保护法的可信度。

Hermione curled her lip, making it perfectly clear that she didn’t approve of his aims or his methods in the least. “And when the Chamber actually opened, you didn’t think you should help? You just decided to take advantage of the situation and get rid of Dumbledore instead?”
赫敏抿起嘴唇，清楚地表明她丝毫不赞成他的目的或方法。“当商会真正开放时，你不觉得你应该帮忙吗？你只是决定趁势除掉邓布利多？

“Was he helping?” Malfoy asked lightly.
“他在帮忙吗？”马尔福淡淡地问道。

Hermione paused, her mouth opening and then closing as she absorbed his audacity. “You know fine well he was the best chance of stopping those attacks.”
赫敏停顿了一下，她的嘴巴张开又闭上，吸收了他的大胆。“你很清楚，他是阻止那些攻击的最佳机会。”

“To my eyes, he hadn’t been any more capable of stopping the attacks that were taking place during your school years than he had been fifty years previously, Miss Granger. I’m afraid I wasn’t blessed with the baseless faith in Albus Dumbledore possessed by so many of my peers in the Ministry so, no, I didn't think him especially worth keeping.”
“在我看来，他没有比五十年前更有能力阻止你们学生时代发生的袭击，格兰杰小姐。恐怕我没有像魔法部里那么多同僚那样对阿不思·邓布利多毫无根据的信仰，所以，不，我不认为他特别值得留着。

Hermione scoffed, crossing her arms tightly over her chest. “Don’t try to pretend you got rid of him because you thought you might find a replacement more capable of protecting the Muggleborns.”
赫敏嘲笑着，双臂紧紧地抱在胸前。“别想假装你摆脱了他，因为你觉得自己可能会找到一个更能保护麻瓜出身的人。”

“I’m not,” Lucius said, his eyebrows rising as though he thought her suggestion ludicrous. “I was merely pointing out that his absence didn’t actually change anything. In fact, I do believe it was in his absence that your Mr Potter successfully indulged his incorrigible habit of heroism.”
“我不是，”卢修斯说，他的眉毛扬起，仿佛他觉得她的建议很荒谬。“我只是指出他的缺席实际上并没有改变任何事情。事实上，我确实相信，正是在他不在的时候，你们的波特先生成功地放纵了他那不可救药的英雄主义习惯。

Hermione glowered furiously at Malfoy but he merely offered her a bland smile and a careless half shrug. “Did you know that I was attacked?” she asked tightly. 
赫敏愤怒地瞪着马尔福，但他只是给了她一个平淡的微笑和漫不经心的半耸肩。“你知道我被袭击了吗？”

“Were you indeed?” He sat up slightly straighter, an interested gleam in his eye that sent a flash of disgust through Hermione. He was making her feel like a morbidly fascinating museum exhibit. “I confess, that news passed me by. The names, you know.” He waved a dismissive hand. “It’s so hard to take them in when you’re not actually listening.”
“你真的吗？”他稍微坐直了身体，眼中闪过一丝兴趣的光芒，让赫敏心中闪过一丝厌恶。他让她感觉像一个病态迷人的博物馆展品。“我承认，这个消息我过去了。那些名字，你知道的。他不屑一顾地挥了挥手。“当你没有真正倾听时，很难接受他们。”

Hermione gripped her biceps with painful tightness and his eyes flicked down to her white knuckles, a similarly white smile ghosting across his face. “And how did you survive, if it’s not too rude to ask such a thing?”
赫敏痛苦地紧紧地抓住她的二头肌，他的眼睛向下瞥向她白皙的指关节，同样的白色笑容在他的脸上浮现。“如果问这种事不是太粗鲁的话，你是怎么活下来的？”

Nostrils flared, Hermione raised her chin proudly. “I worked out that the creature in the Chamber was a Basilisk. I was using a mirror to look around corners when it attacked.”
赫敏张开了鼻孔，骄傲地抬起了下巴。“我发现房间里的生物是蛇怪。当它攻击时，我正在用镜子环顾四周。

A small smile tugged at the corners of Malfoy’s lips and his eyes swept over her appraisingly. “You really have always been a very clever girl, haven't you?"
马尔福的嘴角勾起一丝微笑，他的眼睛赞赏地扫过她。“你真的一直都是个很聪明的姑娘，不是吗？”

There was bald admiration in his words but Hermione also detected a faintly mocking undertone that raised a sneer to her lips. “Your selfishness could have killed me.” 
他的话语中带着光秃秃的钦佩，但赫敏也察觉到一种淡淡的嘲讽意味，她的嘴角扬起了一丝冷笑。“你的自私可能会杀了我。”

“But it didn’t, did it? You made sure of that yourself. Quite cleverly, as I said.”
“但事实并非如此，是吗？你自己确定了这一点。正如我所说的，相当聪明。

“What if it had?”
“如果真是这样呢？”

“Killed you?” he asked, pushing out his lower lip thoughtfully. “Well, my afternoon would look very different right now, wouldn’t it? Far more peaceful.”
“杀了你吗？” 他问道，若有所思地伸出下唇。“嗯，我现在的下午看起来会很不一样，不是吗？要平静得多。

There was a tense pause, suddenly broken when Hermione huffed out a disbelieving laugh that could have transitioned quite easily into a scream of frustration and rage if she’d let it. 
一阵紧张的停顿，赫敏哼出一声难以置信的笑声，如果她允许的话，这笑声很容易就会变成沮丧和愤怒的尖叫。

Collapsing heavily against the back of her seat, arms still crossed, Hermione eyed Malfoy across the desk. He returned her stare boldly, unblinking, his face a mask. Hermione knew at that moment that she wouldn’t be able to extract anything else honest from him when it came to his memories of the Chamber of Secrets. There was barely any point in trying.
赫敏重重地瘫倒在椅背上，双臂仍然交叉着，盯着桌子对面的马尔福。他大胆地回以她的目光，一眨不眨，他的脸上戴着面具。赫敏在那一刻知道，当涉及到他对密室的记忆时，她无法从他那里提取出任何其他诚实的东西。尝试几乎没有任何意义。

“Were you not familiar with Horcruxes at all , Mr Malfoy? Couldn’t you even hazard a guess at what Voldemort had given you?”
“你对魂器一点也不熟悉吗，马尔福先生？你连猜猜伏地魔给你的是什么吗？

“No. Dark Magic is a vast and varied field and I never had any particular interest in the branches relating to mortality.”
“不。黑魔法是一个广阔而多样的领域，我从来没有对与死亡有关的分支有任何特别的兴趣。

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“Magic of that nature always requires an exchange—a significant exchange—and I do not see how it could be ever worthwhile. I have no interest in living forever, Miss Granger. I am not supposed to; it’s my role as a Malfoy to pass the family name and fortune along to my child and heir. That's our version of immortality.”
「那种性质的魔法总是需要交换-一次重要的交换-而且我看不出这怎么可能值得。我对永远活着没有兴趣，格兰杰小姐。我不应该这样做;作为马尔福，我的职责是将家族的姓氏和财富传给我的孩子和继承人。这就是我们的不朽版本。

Hermione’s lips quirked. “That’s rather arrogant.”
赫敏的嘴唇抽搐了一下。“这真是太傲慢了。”

“Perhaps but you have spent weeks of your life reading about us, have you not?” he asked with a self-satisfied smile. It faded as he continued speaking. “The Dark Lord never liked arrogance, you know; mine or anyone else's. Pitiful subservience was his preference, much as he’d deny it. Just look at Pettigrew.” Lucius flicked his fingers out as though clearing a pest from the air, his lip curled. “He loved to hate us, to look down on us. He never wanted an equal and in the first war I’d been young and foolish enough to think that he might have.”
“也许吧，但你花了好几个星期的时间来阅读关于我们的文章，不是吗？”随着他继续说话，它消失了。“你知道的，黑魔王从来不喜欢傲慢;我的或其他任何人的。可怜的顺从是他的偏好，尽管他会否认这一点。看看小矮星就知道了。卢修斯伸出手指，仿佛要从空气中清除了一只害虫，他的嘴唇卷曲着。“他又爱恨我们，又看不起我们。他从来不想要平等的人，在第一次战争中，我还年轻又愚蠢，以为他可能会这样做。

“ Was he angry at you, then? When he returned?”
“那么，他对你生气了吗？”他什么时候回来的？

“Oh, furious ,” he said lightly but Hermione thought she could hear an undertone of something else. Retrospective agitation, perhaps. “Hence my being tasked to lead the break in at the Department of Mysteries.”
“哦，生气了，”他淡淡地说，但赫敏觉得她能听到别的东西。也许是回顾性的激动。“因此，我的任务是领导神秘事务司的闯入。”

Hermione pulled her head back. “That was…a punishment?”
赫敏把头往后拉。“那是......惩罚？

“It was certainly a fool’s errand. I attempted to avoid going myself by placing viable targets within the Ministry under the Imperius curse but those plans failed because of the ludicrous condition that the prophecy can only be taken by those about whom it is made.” Lucius huffed out an irate sigh. “Of course, then the Dark Lord made it quite clear I would need to do the work myself. In person. By that point he had very little patience left so I had to cobble together a plan.”
“这当然是个愚蠢的差事。我试图通过在魔法部内放置可行的目标来避免自己去，但这些计划失败了，因为预言只能被那些预言所针对的人接受的荒谬条件。卢修斯愤怒地叹了口气。“当然，然后黑魔王很明确地表示我需要自己做这项工作。躬。到那时，他已经没有多少耐心了，所以我不得不拼凑出一个计划。

Lucius leaned an elbow on his chair and frowned down at the surface of his desk. “I knew the Ministry better than any of them, so I understood that it was very unlikely that we would be able to infiltrate the Department of Mysteries and get everyone out. Not in one piece. Then he insisted that Bellatrix join me as my second and my fate was sealed.”
卢修斯用手肘靠在椅子上，皱着眉头看着他的桌子表面。“我比他们任何人都更了解魔法部，所以我明白我们不太可能渗透到神秘事务司并把所有人都救出来。不是一体的。然后他坚持让贝拉特里克斯加入我，成为我的第二个孩子，我的命运就注定了。

At Hermione’s questioning look Lucius rolled his eyes impatiently. “You did not send Bellatrix to do infiltration and persuasion, Miss Granger. She was always so horrifically unpredictable and uncontainable—the exact opposite of what I needed in a room filled with fragile glass. She also unrelentingly resented me for having avoided Azkaban after the first war and made it clear she’d never follow my orders. I didn’t need a prophecy to know it was destined to be a complete fuck up .” 
面对赫敏质疑的眼神，卢修斯不耐烦地翻了个白眼。“你没有派贝拉特里克斯去进行渗透和劝说，格兰杰小姐。她总是那么可怕、不可预测和无法控制——这与我在一个装满易碎玻璃的房间里所需要的完全相反。她也无情地怨恨我在第一次战争后避开了阿兹卡班，并明确表示她永远不会听从我的命令。我不需要预言就知道这注定是一场彻头彻尾的混乱。

Hermione blinked. He so rarely swore, never mind with such vehemence. “But you still did it.”
赫敏眨了眨眼。他很少发誓，更不用说这么激烈了。“但你还是做到了。”

“Of course I did,” he snapped. “What else could I do? He would have liked us to succeed, I'm sure, but he did very little to make it easy. I suspect he wanted to show me that I couldn’t slither my way out of everything.” He narrowed his eyes on her. “Thank you for making absolutely certain of that.” 
“我当然知道，”他厉声说。“我还能做什么呢？我敢肯定，他希望我们成功，但他几乎没有做任何事情来让它变得容易。我怀疑他想告诉我，我不能从所有事情中溜走。他眯起眼睛看着她。“谢谢你绝对确定这一点。”

“You would have killed us,” Hermione cried, hardly able to believe that he would actually fault her for trying to stay alive.
“你会杀了我们，”赫敏喊道，几乎不敢相信他真的会责怪她试图活下去。

He nodded. “And I’d have killed every single Death Eater I was with to try and get back to my wife and son. After my death, my capture was the next best way to leave them exposed.”
他点点头。“而且我会杀掉和我在一起的每一个食死徒，以试图回到我的妻子和儿子身边。在我死后，我的被捕是让他们暴露的下一个最佳方式。

Taking in a deep breath and holding it in an attempt to control her temper, Hermione eyed his face, finding nothing but sincerity there. He was ruthlessly protective but she couldn’t say she found it all that unrelatable. It disconcerted her.
赫敏深吸一口气，屏住呼吸，试图控制自己的脾气，她盯着他的脸，发现里面只有真诚。他无情地保护着她，但她不能说她觉得这一切那么不相关。这让她感到不安。

“What was Azkaban like for you?”
“阿兹卡班对你来说是什么样子的？”

“After such a catastrophic failure, it was probably the safest place for me. Though I suppose that’s not really saying much, is it?”
“在经历了如此灾难性的失败之后，它对我来说可能是最安全的地方。虽然我想这并没有说明什么，是吗？

“The Dementors still affected you?”
“摄魂怪还影响着你？”

“When you’re in Azkaban you’re fair game, Miss Granger. Dementors do not see sides as we do.” He pursed his lips and Hermione could see him picking absently at the skin beside his thumbnail with his forefinger. “It was my first real encounter with them, you know. I’d never appreciated quite how…awful they are.”
“当你在阿兹卡班的时候，你是公平的，格兰杰小姐。摄魂怪不像我们一样看到任何一方。他抿了抿嘴唇，赫敏可以看到他心不在焉地用食指抠着拇指旁边的皮肤。“这是我第一次真正遇到他们，你知道的。我从来没有体会过......他们太糟糕了。

Lucius dropped into silence, a thoroughly introspective closedness behind his eyes. ”I’d never really considered my soul before,” he said quietly, almost to himself. Then he looked up at Hermione. “If I could say one thing in their favour, it’s that they help one find a certain perspective. If you are to retain even a fraction of your sanity, it's imperative that you establish one precious thing to which you can cling.”
卢修斯陷入了沉默，他的眼睛后面是彻底的内省。“我以前从来没有真正考虑过我的灵魂，”他轻声说，几乎是对自己说的。然后他抬头看向赫敏。“如果我能说一件事对他们有利的话，那就是他们帮助一个人找到某种观点。如果你要保持哪怕一点点的理智，就必须建立一件你可以依附的珍贵东西。

"What did you cling to?" Hermione asked, a slight hush to her voice as though she hoped asking quietly wouldn't scare him away from providing an answer. 
“你坚持什么？”赫敏问道，她的声音略带小声，仿佛她希望悄悄地问不会吓到他而放弃回答。

"My family.” His voice was heavy and then it hardened with his expression as he added, “Obviously. You could always tell those who didn't have anything - they were the first to go."
“我的家人。”他的声音很沉重，然后随着他的表情而变得僵硬，他补充道，“显然。你总是可以告诉那些一无所有的人——他们是第一个离开的。

“Did you know he’d recruit Draco in your absence?” Hermione asked, recalling the entire year she'd spent dismissing Harry’s theories of that happening. That felt so silly now; she felt silly for ever having thought not even Voldemort would stoop so low.
“你知道他会在你不在的时候招募德拉科吗？”赫敏问道，回想起她花了整整一年的时间来否定哈利关于那件事的理论。现在感觉真是太愚蠢了; 她觉得自己很傻，因为她从来没有想过连伏地魔也不会这么低头。

“I strongly suspected he would,” he said, dipping his head. “Not least because I'd made it clear that I didn't want my son to receive the mark while still at school. It was his way of teaching me a further lesson.”
“我强烈怀疑他会，”他低着头说。“尤其是因为我已经明确表示，我不希望我的儿子在上学时就收到分数。这是他给我上了一课的方式。

“And what was that?”
“那是什么？”

“That I was as replaceable as my father.”
“我和我父亲一样可以被替代。”

Lucius uncrossed his legs and leaned forward to set his forearms on the desk in front of him. “Of course, he broke me out of Azkaban and I was supposed to be grateful for that.” His mouth tightened at the corners. “In some ways I actually was. And I expressed my gratitude by opening up my home to him. 
卢修斯松开双腿，身体前倾，将前臂放在他面前的桌子上。“当然，他把我从阿兹卡班解救出来，我应该为此心存感激。”他的嘴角紧闭着。“在某些方面，我实际上是。我向他敞开了我的家门，以表达我的感激之情。

“He was a Devil’s Snare of a wizard; always finding ways to pull you in further, closer. Struggling only killed you faster so you held still and hoped.”
“他是巫师的魔鬼圈套;总是想方设法让你更进一步、更接近。挣扎只会更快地杀死你，所以你保持不动并希望。

“Do you think he was planning to kill you?” Hermione asked, her voice quiet.
“你觉得他打算杀你吗？”赫敏问道，她的声音很平静。

Lucius’ eyes flicked to hers, the corners of his lips turned downwards. “It was a very popular view amongst my fellow Death Eaters that I would be better off dead, so killing me would have appeared dangerously close to kindness. He would never have risked that. I rather think he was hoping to push me to do it myself.”
卢修斯的眼睛眨向她，嘴角向下。“在我的食死徒同伴中，有一种非常流行的观点，认为我最好还是死了，所以杀了我看起来就等同于善意了。他绝不会冒这个险。我宁愿认为他是希望推动我自己做这件事。

Hermione’s breath caught in her chest. She didn’t ask the question but it hung in the air anyway. Perhaps sensing it, Lucius shook his head. “Not while Draco was still alive.”
赫敏的呼吸停在了她的胸口。她没有问这个问题，但还是悬在空中。也许是感觉到了，卢修斯摇了摇头。“在德拉科还活着的时候不会。”

Unsure how to respond, Hermione allowed silence to fall. She inspected Malfoy, who appeared to have gone into his own head, revisiting feelings and memories that he clearly didn’t want to share with her. 
不知道该如何回答，赫敏让沉默降临。她打量着马尔福，马尔福似乎已经进入了自己的脑海，重新审视了他显然不想与她分享的感受和记忆。

“I think maybe we should leave it there.”
“我想也许我们应该就此结束。”

Eyes becoming sharper again, he frowned at her. “A rather grim ending. I don’t think we’ve done a full hour.”
他的眼睛又变得更锐利了，他皱着眉头看着她。“一个相当严峻的结局。我认为我们还没有做一整小时。

“No, but…” Hermione grappled with her words, not wishing to get his back up. “I just think that’s enough for today.”
“不，但是......”赫敏哄哄着她的话，不想让他站起来。“我只是觉得今天就够了。”

He nodded and pushed himself to his feet, looking down at her while she stopped the Wheezebox. “I wonder if, in the spare time we have left, you might join me in the library.” 
他点点头，站起来，低头看着她，而她则停下了喘息盒。“我在想，趁着我们剩下的时间，你能不能和我一起去图书馆。”

Hermione looked up at him so fast she almost cricked her neck. 
赫敏抬头看着他，速度如此之快，以至于她几乎要捅断脖子。

“I found the photo album I mentioned while I was scouring the shelves one evening.”
“一天晚上，我在书架上翻找时发现了我提到的那本相册。”

“You found the—” Hermione shook her head, her stomach sinking. “So you do remember?”
“你找到那个——”赫敏摇摇头，她的胃一沉。“所以你还记得吗？”

A smirk lifted a corner of his lips. “I was not that far gone, Miss Granger. Of course I remember. Well, most of it. You have proven your discretion once again.” 
他的嘴角扬起一抹得意的笑容。“我没走那么远，格兰杰小姐。我当然记得。嗯，大部分。你再次证明了你的判断力。

Do you remember touching me ? The question was on the tip of her tongue – so ready to tumble over her lips – but she found she couldn't ask it. If he didn't remember, then she didn't want to remind him. She also didn't want him to know that moment had been floating to the surface of her mind during her quiet moments for a week, like an unfinished puzzle to which she could not, would not, concede defeat. At what point had the man who would have once protested breathing the same air as her become a man who could so casually lay a hand on her?
你还记得摸我吗？这个问题就在她的舌尖上——如此准备在她的嘴唇上翻滚——但她发现自己无法提出这个问题。如果他不记得，那她就不想提醒他。她也不想让他知道，在她一周的安静时刻，那一刻已经浮现在她的脑海中，就像一个未完成的拼图，她不能，也不会，承认失败。那个曾经和她呼吸着同样空气抗议的男人，什么时候变成了一个可以如此随意地对她动手的男人呢？

He observed her tense posture and his smirk grew, taking in her irritation the way a sponge took in water. “Were you terribly worried I’d accuse you of taking advantage of my state to press me for private information? Dear me, you must have been in an ethical spiral.”
他观察着她紧张的姿势，他的笑容越来越大，就像海绵吸水一样吸收了她的恼怒。“你是不是非常担心我会指责你利用我的国家向我逼问私人信息？亲爱的我，你一定处于道德漩涡中。

Scoffing, Hermione sat back in her seat and folded her arms, looking up at him with a cross expression. “I’ve been terrified about that for a week , you cretin.” He chuckled, the sound rumbling deep in his chest, and she broke off, some of her tension leaving her. He really wasn’t annoyed. 
赫敏嘲笑着坐回座位上，交叉双臂，用交叉的表情抬头看着他。“我已经为此害怕了一个星期了，你这个白痴。”他咯咯地笑了起来，声音在他的胸口深处隆隆作响，她打断了自己，她的一些紧张感离开了她。他真的没有生气。

“Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said softly, “I don’t think you should be drinking to get to sleep.”
“马尔福先生，”赫敏轻声说，“我觉得你不应该为了睡觉而喝酒。

That cut his chuckle short. “I was quite happy to leave it at that, Miss Granger. Don’t ruin it.”
“这让他的笑声打断了。“我很高兴就此结束，格兰杰小姐。不要毁了它。

“I understand why you wouldn’t want to use Dreamless Sleep now but there have to be other ways of—”
“我明白你为什么现在不想用无梦睡眠，但肯定有其他方法可以——”

“Such as?” he asked, an eyebrow raised expectantly.
“比如？” 他问道，期待地扬起了眉毛。

“Well, I don’t know,” Hermione mumbled, looking down at her knees as she fiddled with the hem of her pale blue summer dress. Suddenly, her face brightened and she raised her head. “Maybe we should research some together.”
“嗯，我不知道，”赫敏喃喃自语，低头看着自己的膝盖，摆弄着淡蓝色夏裙的下摆。突然，她的脸色亮了起来，她抬起了头。“也许我们应该一起研究一些。”

“Then you will be pushing me to drink for an entirely different reason. Please don’t involve yourself in this matter any further.”
“那你就会出于完全不同的原因催促我喝酒。请不要再卷入这件事了。

He walked around his desk to stand beside her chair. Hands in his pockets, he looked down at her with a frown. “I don’t know what has come over my son and now, apparently, yourself but I do not need to be handled like a child at the top of a flight of stairs.”
他绕着书桌走来走去，站在她的椅子旁边。他双手插在口袋里，皱着眉头低头看着她。“我不知道我的儿子和现在的你自己发生了什么，但我不需要像在楼梯顶上的孩子一样被对待。”

“Draco doesn’t handle you like a child,” Hermione said. “He cares for you.”
“德拉科不会像对待孩子一样对待你，”赫敏说。“他关心你。”

“I don’t need it.”
“我不需要它。”

Hermione looked up at him, her eyes searching his stern face. "Everyone needs to be cared for sometimes.”
赫敏抬头看着他，她的眼睛在他严肃的脸上寻找。“每个人有时都需要得到照顾。”

Leaning forward slightly, he fixed her with a cold glare. “Not. Me,” he said, enunciating each word carefully before straightening up and assuming a business-like tone. “Now, if you’re quite done being an interfering little madam, will you join me in the library? I don't have all day."
他微微前倾，用冰冷的目光盯着她。“不是，我，”他说，仔细地说出每一个字，然后直起身来，摆出一种公事公办的语气。“现在，如果你已经干涉不管了，小太太，你愿意和我一起去图书馆吗？我没有一整天的时间。

When they entered the library, Lucius silently led Hermione in the opposite direction from her desk. Although she was annoyed at him after their conversation – and expressed it by directing a searing glare at his back – she couldn’t deny the little flutter excitement that accompanied finally getting to explore a little deeper into the room. 
当他们走进图书馆时，卢修斯默默地带着赫敏从她的书桌上朝相反的方向走去。尽管在他们的谈话之后，她对他感到恼火——并通过炙热地瞪着他的背影来表达——但她无法否认伴随着终于深入房间而带来的一丝兴奋。

She had, after all, taken his ‘friendly warning’ quite seriously. 
毕竟，她已经相当认真地对待了他的“友好警告”。

The idea of being incapacitated by a book, perhaps fatally, when no one would find her for hours didn’t strike her as a risk especially worth taking. Though it had taken a few hours of agonising to reach that reluctant conclusion.
被一本书夺走了行动能力，也许是致命的，几个小时都找不到她，这并不觉得这是一个特别值得冒的风险。尽管我们花了几个小时的痛苦才得出那个不情愿的结论。

“I can’t recall exactly which row I was in…” Lucius murmured to himself, walking down the stretch of shelves, counting them with his finger.
“我记不清我当时在哪一排......”卢修斯喃喃自语着，走下书架，用手指头数着。

“Were you on a drunken, late-night wander, perchance?” Hermione asked.
“你是不是喝醉了，深夜闲逛了，好吗？”赫敏问道。

She expected a sharp, sarcastic retort but instead he simply said “yes” and continued walking. Abashed, Hermione picked up her pace to follow him, keeping a few steps behind. 
她本以为会得到一句尖锐、讽刺的反驳，但他只是简单地说了一句“是”，然后继续走。赫敏羞愧地加快了脚步跟着他，落后了几步。

He was so at ease in the grand space. Nothing about any of it seemed to awe him. Hermione supposed anyone would be like that in the home in which they’d spent their entire lives but so few homes had such ornate, beautiful carvings of ancient, magical runes at the ends of their bookcases. How could one just be used to that?
他在大空间里是如此的自在。这一切似乎都没有让他感到敬畏。赫敏以为在他们度过了一辈子的家里，任何人都会是这样的人，但很少有房子的书架末端有如此华丽、美丽的古老、神奇的符文雕刻。一个人怎么能就这样习惯呢？

They passed a row much like any other when Hermione stopped short, almost tripping over her own feet. 
他们经过了一排，就像其他任何一排一样，赫敏停了下来，差点被自己的脚绊倒。

Backing up a few paces, she stared down the row, her heart beating a fraction faster. There was nothing about the row visually that set it apart from any of the others but she had a strange feeling it specifically was very important.
她后退了几步，盯着那排，她的心跳加快了一点。这排在视觉上没有什么区别于其他任何一排，但她有一种奇怪的感觉，它特别重要。

There was a book in it that she had to read. 
里面有一本书，她必须读。

One just for her. 
一个只为她。

Hermione shook her head, irked by her own illogical train of thought. She didn't know anything about this side of the room – the idea that there was a book there just for her was ludicrous. 
赫敏摇了摇头，对自己不合逻辑的思路感到恼火。她对房间的这一边一无所知——那里有一本书专门为她准备的想法是荒谬的。

Though she was keen to move on, she found her feet heavy and unwilling. 
尽管她很想继续前进，但她发现自己的脚很沉重，不愿意。

But the book was there. Just one book.
但那本书就在那里。就一本书。

It was very interesting, too, she was sure. 
她确信，这也很有趣。

How could she be sure of that?
她怎么能确定呢？

In the back of Hermione's mind, panic trilled like a school bell as she took one hesitant step into the row. Then, as she took another, the panic grew quieter, harder for her to recognise. 
在赫敏的脑海中，恐慌像学校的铃声一样颤抖着，她犹豫地迈出了一步。然后，当她又吃了一口时，恐慌变得越来越安静，她更难辨认。

There was only one way to be sure. Her brain felt itchy with need. There was only one way to scratch it. It was agonising. She had to.
只有一个方法可以确定。她的大脑因需要而发痒。只有一种方法可以划伤它。这很痛苦。她必须这样做。

Glancing at Malfoy’s retreating back, Hermione opened her mouth to speak and then closed it again, finding that her voice wouldn’t come. An increasingly muffled part of her brain willed her to catch up with him but she found her steps continuing down the row anyway. 
赫敏瞥了一眼马尔福后退的背影，张开嘴想说话，然后又闭上了，发现她的声音不会来。她大脑中越来越模糊的部分让她想追上他，但她发现她的脚步还是继续沿着那排走。

Peering longingly along the shelves, she sped up. A little look. Just a little look. 
她渴望地沿着书架望着，然后加快了速度。稍微看一眼。只是看了一眼。

Lucius had passed three more rows before he realised he could no longer hear Hermione’s footsteps following him. Turning his upper body, he looked back through the library with a frown.
卢修斯又经过了三排，才意识到他再也听不到赫敏跟着他的脚步声了。他转动上半身，皱着眉头回头看向图书馆。

“Miss Granger?”
“格兰杰小姐？”

His voice echoed, answering itself, but there was no response from her. An uneasy feeling settled in Lucius’ stomach and he clenched his fist. Swiftly retracing his steps, he looked down each row as he passed it. Finally, he spotted her halfway down one.
他的声音回荡着，回答自己，但她没有回应。卢修斯的胃里一股不安的感觉沉淀下来，他握紧了拳头。他迅速地原路返回，在经过每一排时向下看。最后，他发现了她在半山腰上。

“Miss Granger, what are you doing? That’s not where it—”
“格兰杰小姐，你在干什么？那不是它的地方——”

He broke off, squinting at her. 
他打断了她，眯着眼睛看着她。

He could only see her face side-on but what he could see was blank and empty, her mouth half-open in a gormless way that didn’t suit her at all. She was reaching for a high up shelf, the heels of her white tennis shoes rising from the ground as she moved onto her tiptoes. 
他只能从侧面看到她的脸，但他能看到的是空白和空洞的，她的嘴巴半张着，一点也不适合她。她伸手去拿一个高高的架子，当她踮起脚尖时，白色网球鞋的鞋跟从地上升起。

Lucius' gaze snapped to where she was reaching, spying a thick maroon tome. A flicker of recognition passed through him and he frowned, looking back to Hermione.
卢修斯的目光猛地盯着她伸手去的地方，窥探着一本厚厚的栗色巨著。他一闪而过，皱起眉头，回头看向赫敏。

Not really thinking about what he was doing, acting purely on his gut, Lucius marched down the row towards her. He reached her as she closed her hands around the spine of the maroon book and, before she could fully pull it out, he managed to knock it from her hands. 
卢修斯并没有真正考虑他在做什么，纯粹凭直觉行事，他沿着那排向她走来。当她用双手捂住栗色书的书脊时，他伸手去摸她，在她完全拔出之前，他设法把它从她手中打了下来。

It fell to the floor with a heavy smack . 
它砰的一声掉在了地板上。

There was a moment in which time seemed to stand still, Hermione gawping at her empty palms, puzzled that the book was no longer there, while Lucius waited, tensed, to see what she would do. With a suddenness that made Lucius flinch, Hermione made an animalistic, angry noise and pushed around him to get to where the book had fallen. 
有那么一刻，时间似乎静止了，赫敏瞪着她空洞的手掌，对那本书已经不在那里感到困惑，而卢修斯则紧张地等待着，看看她会做什么。突然间，卢修斯畏缩了一下，赫敏发出了兽性、愤怒的声音，推开他，想爬到书掉的地方。

Reacting instinctively, Lucius turned and seized her around the waist. She brought her hands down to where he had locked his arms around her and scrabbled at him, twisting her body fiercely to fight him off. Grunting, he hauled her backwards, her back against his chest, and they slammed into one of the bookcases. His back hit the shelves so hard that two more books toppled out and hit the stone floor with heavy thuds . Utterly oblivious to them, her focus fixed on the maroon book alone, Hermione propelled herself out of his loosened hold, a crazed wideness to her eyes.
卢修斯本能地反应过来，转身抓住了她的腰。她把手放到他搂着她的地方，向他猛争，狠狠地扭动着她的身体以抵抗他。他咕哝着，把她往后拖，她的背靠在他的胸前，然后他们砸上了其中一个书架。他的背重重地撞在书架上，又有两本书翻了出来，砰的一声砸在了石头地板上。赫敏完全没有理会他们，她的注意力只集中在那本栗色的书上，她把自己从他松开的手里推了出来，她的眼睛疯狂地睁大了。

Lucius grabbed her from behind and pulled her backwards, managing to turn himself and pin her shoulders to the bookcase, using his weight to hold her in place. Looking into her eyes he saw they were completely white.
卢修斯从后面抓住她，把她往后拉，设法转过身来，把她的肩膀固定在书架上，用他的重量把她固定在原地。他看着她的眼睛，发现它们完全是白色的。

“ Granger ,” he barked as she continued to struggle against him, her sharp little nails coming for his face. “Snap… out of it.”
“格兰杰，”他吠叫着，她继续与他搏斗，她锋利的小指甲抵向他的脸。“啪...... 走出去。

A pained "unf" escaped Lucius as Hermione's fist jabbed into his stomach, his body folding and his hands instinctively leaving her shoulders to clutch the point of pain. Taking advantage of this, Hermione attempted to duck under his arms and around him. She'd barely gotten past his side when he managed to hook his arm around her middle again, his other hand still clutching his stomach.
当赫敏的拳头戳进他的肚子时，卢修斯发出了痛苦的“unf”声，他的身体折叠起来，他的手本能地离开她的肩膀，抓住了疼痛的部位。赫敏趁着这个机会，试图躲在他的胳膊下和他周围。当他设法再次用手臂勾住她的中间时，她才勉强越过他的身边，他的另一只手仍然抓着他的肚子。

Hermione struggled as Lucius tensed his arm to hold her. Still in pain from her jab and facing in the opposite direction from her, he found he could not pull her in and his balance was thrown by the force of her movement. 
赫敏挣扎着，卢修斯绷紧了手臂来抱住她。他仍然因她的刺痛而痛苦，面对着她的相反方向，他发现他无法将她拉进去，他的平衡被她的动作的力量打破了。

Then he was falling backwards, his arm dropping from her body as she dashed forwards. He had barely hit the ground when he turned onto his stomach and, with a furious growl, he grabbed her ankle and jerked it. 
然后他向后倒下，当她向前冲刺时，他的手臂从她的身体上掉下来。当他转过身来时，他几乎没撞到地上，他愤怒地咆哮着，抓住她的脚踝，猛地抽搐。

She hit the ground with a smack , her hands coming out to break her fall, and he pulled her ankle, dragging her bodily towards him. Hermione clung to the floor, eyes fixed on the book that was mere inches away from her fingertips as she tried to kick him off. 
她啪地一声撞在地上，伸出双手阻止了她的摔倒，他拉着她的脚踝，将她的身体拖向他。赫敏紧紧地贴在地板上，眼睛盯着离她指尖只有几英寸远的书，她试图把他踢开。

Lucius grunted and gripped her tighter, pulling. He didn't particularly care if he was hurting her. She was fucking hurting him . 
卢修斯咕哝着，把她抱得更紧了，拉扯着。他并不特别在乎自己是不是在伤害她。她他妈的在伤害他。

Scrabbling to his knees, he managed to get a grip on her other leg and crawled closer to her. Before he could fully leverage his weight to hold her legs still, she managed to kick her left leg free and turned onto her back to try to fully kick him off.
他跪在地上，设法抓住了她的另一条腿，爬得更靠近她。在他能够完全利用他的重量来保持她的双腿不动之前，她设法将她的左腿踢开，然后转身仰面试图将他完全踢开。

" No, Granger ! Stupid bloody – " 
“不，格兰杰！ - ”

Lucius recaptured her left leg and yanked her across the floor, further from the book. She tilted her head back, arching her back to keep it in her sights, arms coming up to grab for it. He used her distraction to hold her legs still and straddled her hips, pinning her in place. 
卢修斯重新抓住她的左腿，把她拽过地板，离书更远。她把头向后仰，弓起背来让它保持在她的视线范围内，伸出双臂来抓住它。他利用她的注意力让她的双腿保持不动，跨坐在她的臀部上，将她固定在原地。

Squeezing his knees on either side of her hips, Lucius reached up and grabbed at her arms. Managing to get a grip on her wrists, he manacled them with his hands and pressed them against the stone floor on either side of her head. 
卢修斯用膝盖捏住她的臀部两侧，伸手抓住了她的手臂。他设法抓住了她的手腕，用手铐住它们，把它们压在她头两侧的石地板上。

Her attention was back on him and she wriggled ferociously under him, fighting to be free to get to the book. His only response was to hold her tighter, pressing her wrists hard against the floor with a force that he knew would be painful as he glared into her angry little face, its teeth bared, its eyes still white.
她的注意力又回到了他身上，她在他身下凶猛地扭动着，挣扎着要自由地拿到那本书。他唯一的反应就是把她抱得更紧，用一种他知道会很痛苦的力量把她的手腕紧紧地压在地板上，因为他瞪着她那张愤怒的小脸，露出牙齿，眼睛仍然是白色的。

He wanted to kill her. The indignity , he thought, fury rising up from the pit of his stomach like bile. Wrestling her to the floor of all things.
他想杀了她。侮辱，他想着，怒火像胆汁一样从他的胃里升起。把她摔倒在地。

Breathing heavily, exhausted by their struggle, Lucius glanced up at the book she was so intent on. It was now within arms reach for him but not for her. This was ridiculous. It was why wizards were supposed to have fucking wands .
卢修斯喘着粗气，因他们的挣扎而筋疲力尽，抬头看了一眼她如此专注的书。现在他伸手可及，但对她来说却不是。这太荒谬了。这就是为什么巫师应该有他妈的魔杖。

"Shut up ," he snapped, eyes returning to her face again as she whined. She lifted her head from the ground in an attempt to bite him and he turned his head to the side, leaning away. "Don't you dare ."
“闭嘴，”他厉声说，当她抱怨时，眼睛又回到了她的脸上。她从地上抬起头，试图咬他一口，而他却把头转向一边，向外倾斜。“你不敢。”

Lucius rapidly assessed his position holding Granger down and the distance they were from the book. There was no way he could let her go and get the book. She'd be on him like a banshee. If he could just free one of his hands to reach it. It was the only thing he could do.
卢修斯迅速评估了他按住格兰杰的位置，以及他们离书的距离。他不可能放过她去拿那本书。她会像女妖一样搂着他。如果他能腾出一只手就能够到它。这是他唯一能做的事。

Taking a deep breath, Lucius tightened the grip of his left hand on her wrist, secured her hips between his legs and released his right hand's hold on her wrist to reach up and over her head. 
深吸一口气，卢修斯紧紧握住她的手腕，将她的臀部固定在两腿之间，然后松开右手抓住她手腕的手，伸过她的头顶。

Immediately, she scrabbled for his face with her newly freed hand. He lifted his chin and turned his face to the side so that she could only get at his jaw and neck.
她立刻用她刚刚解放出来的手摸索着他的脸。他抬起下巴，把脸转向一边，这样她就只能碰到他的下巴和脖子。

Utterly fucking humiliating . He was going to kill her if the book didn't.
真他妈的羞辱。如果这本书没有，他就要杀了她。

Teeth clenched, eyes half-closed against her assault, he stretched his arm out and - yes ! Lucius' fingertips made contact with the edge of the book and he dragged it towards himself while still trying to hold Hermione in place. 
他咬紧牙关，半闭着眼睛抵抗她的攻击，伸出手臂——是的！卢修斯的指尖碰到了书的边缘，他一边把书拖向自己，一边试图把赫敏固定在原地。

Getting a firm grip on the book, he raised it above his head, out of her scrabbling reach, and flung it with force so that it sailed out of the row. With an exhausted exhale, he brought his hand down to land flat on the stone by Hermione’s head as he watched the book land with a heavy thump in the main body of the library.
他紧紧地抓住那本书，把它举过头顶，避开了她手头上的争抢，然后用力把它甩了出去，让它从那排东西中飞了出去。他疲惫地呼出一口气，把手平放在赫敏头上的石头上，看着书重重地砰地一声落在图书馆的主体上。

Almost immediately, the fight went out of Granger and she softened under him. 
几乎在一瞬间，格兰杰的挣扎就结束了，她在他手下软化了。

Lowering his gaze, he saw that her head had fallen back against the stone floor, her eyes closed and her curls spread wild around her. She was breathing heavily as though she’d been running a long distance—or wrestling for her life—and he was close enough to see that the short little curls around her hairline were damped down with sweat. The angle of her head exposed her neck to him and her pulse was visible, beating rapidly beneath the delicate skin. His eyes travelled down, over the rapid rise and fall of her chest, and down to where he was straddling her.
他低下头，看到她的头已经靠在石头地板上，她闭着眼睛，她的卷发在她周围狂野地蔓延。她呼吸沉重，仿佛她一直在跑很长一段距离——或者为自己的生命而搏斗——而他离得足够近，可以看到她发际线周围的短小卷发被汗水打湿了。她的头的角度将她的脖子暴露在他面前，她的脉搏清晰可见，在娇嫩的皮肤下快速跳动。他的目光向下移动，越过她胸膛的快速起伏，一直到他跨坐在她身上的地方。

A lump formed in his throat. During their struggle, her pale blue dress had risen and gathered, wreath-like, around the uppermost part of her thighs. The only thing that had stopped it rising further, protecting the little modesty she had left, was his knees on either side of her hips.
他的喉咙里形成了一个肿块。在他们的挣扎中，她淡蓝色的裙子已经升起，像花环一样聚集在她的大腿最上部。唯一阻止它进一步上升，保护她所剩无几的谦虚的是他在她臀部两侧的膝盖。

“Mr…Mr Malfoy?”
“先生......马尔福先生？

At the sound of her quiet, raspy voice, Malfoy’s attention returned upwards. Her head was slightly raised, her gaze fixed on the same place his had been only moments before. Slowly, her eyes travelled up his body, wide and confused, and when they met his she swallowed, her lips parting as she took in a shallow breath. 
听到她安静、沙哑的声音，马尔福的注意力又回到了上方。她微微抬起头，目光盯着他刚才还在的地方。她的眼睛慢慢地沿着他的身体向上移动，睁大而困惑，当它们与他的相遇时，她咽了口口水，她的嘴唇张开，浅浅地吸了一口气。

Malfoy fractionally loosened his pincer-tight hold on her wrist and lifted his free hand from the floor to grip her jaw. She stiffened under him as he held her head still and instructed her to keep her eyes on his.
马尔福稍微松开了他紧紧抓住她手腕的手，从地板上抬起他空出来的手抓住了她的下巴。她在他身下僵硬着，他保持着她的头不动，并指示她把眼睛一直盯着他。

“I can hardly believe I’m saying it,” Lucius murmured, using his hold on her chin to tip her head left then right, eyes focused on hers as he did so, “but this was entirely necessary, Miss Granger.”
“我简直不敢相信我说的是，”卢修斯喃喃自语，用他扶着她的下巴，把她的头向左歪，然后向右歪，眼睛盯着她，“但这完全是必要的，格兰杰小姐。

“What happened?” she asked. Her voice was dazed, containing less certainty than he’d ever heard from her, but he was satisfied that her eyes held no trace of their former milky whiteness and had returned to their usual warm brown.
她问道：“发生了什么事？她的声音有些茫然，比他从她那里听到的要少一些确定性，但他很满意，她的眼睛没有留下以前乳白色的痕迹，已经恢复了通常的暖棕色。

“Based on your frankly vicious behaviour” he said, relinquishing her wrist and straightening up while dusting off his hands, "I'd say you were bewitched. To think, I thought you couldn’t get any worse."
“根据你坦率的恶毒行为，”他说，松开她的手腕，一边掸去手上的灰尘一边直起身来，“我想说你被迷住了。想想看，我觉得你不会变得更糟了。

Hermione winced and rolled her wrists, he assumed in an attempt to get some feeling back into them after he’d been holding them so tight. 
赫敏皱起眉头，转动着她的手腕，他猜想，在他把它们抱得这么紧之后，他试图找回一些感觉。

Before Lucius could get up from his kneel over her, she drew her elbows into her sides and arched her body with a pained groan. Her lower body rose between his legs, brushing briefly, intimately, against him and Lucius jolted like an electric current had passed through him.
在卢修斯从跪在她身上站起来之前，她将手肘伸进身体两侧，发出痛苦的呻吟。她的下半身在他的两腿之间起伏，短暂而亲密地摩擦着他，卢修斯像电流穿过他一样颤抖着。

His rational mind knew the action was to stretch out the pain from where he’d dragged her bodily across a stone bloody floor. Despite that, as though she’d transformed into flame, he leaped to his feet with a fluidity and speed that he hadn’t displayed in likely twenty years. He turned immediately away from her so that she could pull her dress down over her legs, sincerely hoping she would do it quickly.
他理智的头脑知道这个动作是为了把他把她的身体拖过血迹斑斑的石头地板上的痛苦拉长。尽管如此，仿佛她已经变成了火焰，他以一种他可能二十年来从未表现出的流畅和速度跳了起来。他立即转过身去，让她把裙子拉下来盖在腿上，真诚地希望她能快点。

Drawing his hand down his face, Lucius glanced hesitantly around to see, with no small amount of relief, that she had done just that and was pushing herself up into a sitting position with shaking arms and an unmissable wooziness to her expression. 
卢修斯把手顺着他的脸上抽身，犹豫地环顾四周，看到她已经做到了，她松了一口气，她正用颤抖的手臂和不容错过的低调的表情把自己撑成坐姿。

“I don’t understand,” she said, turning her eyes up to him. “I can’t rem –”
“我不明白，”她说，把眼睛转向他。“我不能 rem ——”

“A book,” Lucius replied shortly. “Did I not warn you about the library?”
“一本书，”卢修斯很快回答。“我不是警告过你关于图书馆的事情吗？”

Elbows coming to rest on her knees, Hermione pressed her palms into her eyes and covered her face. Lucius watched her closely, not entirely sure what he was supposed to do with her or say to her.
胳膊肘停在膝盖上，赫敏将手掌压在眼睛上，捂住了脸。卢修斯仔细地看着她，不完全确定他应该对她做什么或对她说什么。

Taking him by surprise, she abruptly lifted her head from her hands and stuck her hand out at him. Lucius blinked down at it, repressing his initial instinct to swat it away. His eyes moved to hers and he saw that she was staring at him expectantly. Wriggling her fingers at him, she huffed out a sigh that was heavy with exhaustion. 
让他大吃一惊，她突然从手中抬起头，向他伸出手。卢修斯朝它眨了眨眼，压抑着他最初想把它拍开的本能。他的眼睛移到她的身上，他看到她正期待地盯着他。她用手指扭动着他，哼出一声因疲惫而沉重的叹息。

“I want you to help me up, Mr Malfoy. Please.”
“我要你扶我起来，马尔福先生。拜托了。

Lucius clenched his fist by his side, considering her outstretched hand. Then, with a sigh, he wiped his palm on the side of his trousers and reached out to pull her to her feet. She was light and, when she was working with him and not fighting tooth and nail against him, it was easy to move her. Well, it was easy if he ignored the throbbing pain that was developing in his back where he’d collided with a bookcase.
卢修斯在身侧握紧拳头，看着她伸出的手。然后，他叹了口气，用手掌在裤子侧面擦了擦，伸手把她拉了起来。她很轻，当她和他一起工作而不是与他争吵时，很容易移动她。好吧，如果他忽略了他背上与书架相撞时产生的悸动疼痛，那就很容易了。

When Hermione was on her feet, she stumbled slightly and momentarily gripped his hand more tightly. “I’m sorry, I’m just…drained,” she explained, relinquishing her hold on him. He got the impression she was avoiding his eyes as she turned on the spot, scouring the floor. “Where’s the—”
当赫敏站起来时，她微微踉跄了一下，瞬间把他的手握得更紧了。“对不起，我只是......筋疲力尽，“她解释道，松开了对他的控制。他觉得她在原地转过身来，在地板上搜寻时避开了他的眼睛。“那儿——”

He held up a hand urgently to cut off her question. “Don’t move,” he said, turning away to walk towards the end of the row. “The book is obviously cursed,” he said over his shoulder. “And I suspect it requires a certain proximity to the victim to be effective, so do as you’re told for once in your life and stay put .”
他急切地举起一只手打断了她的问题。“别动，”他说，转身走向那排的尽头。“这本书显然被诅咒了，”他转过头说。“而且我怀疑这需要与受害者有一定的距离才能有效，所以在你的生活中就按照你的指示去做一次，并保持原地不动。”

“Why wouldn’t it affect you?” she asked, her voice croaky.
“为什么它不会影响你？” 她问道，她的声音沙哑。

“It’s undoubtedly intended for someone who is not a Pure-blood, or not a Malfoy, or not a man,” he said, continuing to walk. “Or all three,” he added as an afterthought to himself.
“这无疑是给那些不是纯血统的人的，或者不是马尔福的，或者不是男人的，”他说，继续走着。“或者三个都说，”他事后又对自己说。

He heard a faint mumble of acquiescence and moved faster until he reached the maroon book. Bending down, he lifted it into his arms and turned it over so he could see the cover and read the gold, slanted lettering there. The Laws of Obedience . “All three, most likely” he said quietly to himself, a queasy feeling rising in his throat. He had recognised it.
他听到一声微弱的默许喃喃自语，然后加快了脚步，直到他走到那本栗色的书前。他弯下腰，把它抱在怀里，把它翻过来，这样他就能看到封面，读到那里的金色斜字。 服从法则 .“很可能是三个，”他轻声对自己说，一股恶心的感觉在他的喉咙里升起。他已经认出了。

The Magic Dampener rendered him unable to detect exactly what spells had been cast on the book but he was familiar enough with its contents and the man who had brought it into the house to guess. 
魔法阻尼器使他无法准确察觉这本书上施放了什么咒语，但他对书的内容和把它带进屋子的人足够熟悉，可以猜到。

His father had purchased the book for his mother as a “joke” engagement present, or so he’d told Lucius. She’d never read it, or found it remotely amusing, but she’d also never gotten rid of it. Perhaps he hadn’t allowed it.
他的父亲买了这本书给他的母亲作为“笑话”的订婚礼物，或者他是这么告诉卢修斯的。她从来没有读过这本书，也没觉得它很有趣，但她也从来没有摆脱过它。也许他不允许。

Lucius suspected a modified compulsion charm was at work. Not an explicitly dark spell at all, so not worth the attention of Aurors, but hardly one that could ever be used with friendly intentions. He imagined his father would have found it rather amusing that a nosy guest of a certain type would be compelled to read about all the ways they ought to be subservient to him. 
卢修斯怀疑是经过修改的强迫咒在起作用。根本不是一个明确的黑暗咒语，所以不值得傲罗注意，但也几乎不是一个可以出于友好目的使用的咒语。他想象着他的父亲会觉得很有趣，因为一个爱管闲事的客人会被迫阅读他们应该服从他的所有方式。

Lucius flicked through the book, glancing at the various sections with growing distaste. In the mind; in society; in the workplace; in the home; in the bedroom. Closing the book with a snap on a rather lurid illustration of a witch on her knees, Lucius looked up and back along the row to see Granger. On her knees. 
卢修斯翻阅着这本书，越来越厌恶地瞥了一眼各个部分。 在头脑中;在社会中;在工作场所;在家里;在卧室里。 卢修斯在一幅相当耸人听闻的跪着的女巫插图上合上了书，然后沿着那排东西上回看了看格兰杰。跪在地上。

She was facing away from him, gathering the books that had fallen to the ground. Leaning forward on one of them, she stretched her free arm out to get the other, her dress inching upwards to re-reveal her thighs to him. 
她背对着他，捡起掉在地上的书。她向前倾在其中一个人身上，伸出空出来的手臂去抓住另一个人，她的裙子一点点向上，重新露出她的大腿。

Clearing his throat and gripping The Laws of Obedience tightly around its spine, Lucius turned abruptly and marched out of the library. 
清了清嗓子，紧紧地抓住了它的脊椎上的《服从法则》，卢修斯突然转身走出了图书馆。

He deposited the book in his study, dropping it from a height onto his desk so that it made a loud bang . He would lock it in the cellar later and have Draco deal with it. It was easy to imagine the look of disgust his son would wear when he had to explain the book to him.
他把书放在书房里，从高处掉到书桌上，发出一声巨响。他稍后会把它锁在地窖里，让德拉科处理它。很容易想象他的儿子在不得不向他解释这本书时会带着什么样的厌恶表情。

Leaning on the desk, Lucius allowed his head to fall down so that his chin was pointing at his chest and his shoulders were almost up around his ears. Bloody Granger just couldn’t keep out of trouble. Bloody Granger and her intense nosiness. Bloody Granger. He pressed his fingers hard against the wood, exhaling sharply as though he could expel the memory of her arching beneath him out of his body.
卢修斯靠在桌子上，低下头，下巴指向胸前，肩膀几乎捂住了耳朵。Bloody Granger 就是无法避免麻烦。血腥格兰杰和她强烈的爱管闲事。血腥格兰杰。他用手指用力按在木头上，猛地呼出一口气，仿佛他可以将她在他身下拱起的记忆从他的身体里排出来。

No . Lucius straightened up and adjusted his shirt and waistcoat, drawing his shoulders back. Spending eight years in relative isolation meant that his thoughts had, on occasion, taken unusual, unwanted turns – that was to be expected – but he was far from letting them go there . 
不。卢修斯直起身来，调整了一下他的衬衫和背心，把肩膀往后拉。在相对孤立的环境中度过八年意味着他的思想有时会发生不寻常的、不受欢迎的转折——这是意料之中的——但他远没有让它们去那里。

When he returned to the library, he half expected Hermione to be back at her desk but she wasn’t. Agitated, he worked his way back through the library, retracing his steps to the row he’d left her in. She was still there. His steps slowed as he took her in. She was standing with her arms wrapped tightly around her body, looking at the row of books where, without the cursed book, there was now a very clear gap.
当他回到图书馆时，他半信半疑地期望赫敏会回到她的书桌前，但她并没有。他激动地穿过图书馆，原路返回他留下她的那一排。她还在那里。他的脚步放慢了脚步，把她带进去。她站着，双臂紧紧地搂着自己的身体，看着那一排书，没有了那本被诅咒的书，现在已经有了非常明显的缝隙。

“Miss Granger,” he said, fully prepared to tell her off for disobeying him because the whole thing was her bloody fault, “I told you not to wander off when we came in here. Why—”
“格兰杰小姐，”他说，完全准备好斥责她不服从他，因为整件事都是她的错，“我们进来的时候，我告诉过你不要走开。为什么——”

She turned, arms still wrapped around herself, and he stopped in his tracks, mortified to see her eyes were faintly glistening. “I didn’t know where you went,” she said, clearly not having listened to him, “so I didn’t – I thought I should stay here.”
她转过身来，双臂仍然搂着自己，而他停下了脚步，羞愧地看到她的眼睛微弱地闪烁着光芒。“我不知道你去了哪里，”她说，显然没有听他的话，“所以我不知道——我想我应该留在这里。

Lucius stood stock still, his intended beration stuck somewhere between his chest and the tip of his tongue. He’d never seen her…vulnerable. He didn’t especially like it. It was somehow classically his father to be able to tear down witches even from beyond the grave. If the Quidditch Association had one day replaced Snitches with insecurities, the man would have proven a world class Seeker. 
卢修斯一动不动地站着，他本来打算的吼叫卡在了他的胸口和舌尖之间的某个地方。他从来没见过她......脆弱。他不是特别喜欢这样。不知何故，他的父亲甚至能够从坟墓之外拆毁女巫，这在某种程度上是经典的。如果有一天魁地奇协会用不安全感取代了飞贼，那么这个人就会证明自己是一个世界级的找球手。

“I removed the book,” he finally offered with an air of defeat; there was no point in telling her off. 
“我把那本书删掉了，”他终于带着一副失败的神情说;没有必要让她离开。

She nodded, looking down. He thought he heard a quiet sniff. Merlin . “What was it?” she asked.
她点点头，低头看去。他觉得自己听到了一阵安静的嗅觉。 梅林。“那是什么？”

“A modified compulsion charm at minimum, I suspect,” he said. “On a book about obedience. A rather classic Abraxas Malfoy stunt.” 
“我怀疑，至少是一个修改过的强迫咒，”他说。“在一本关于服从的书上。一个相当经典的阿布拉克萨斯·马尔福特技。

“You were right,” she said, eyes still fixed on her shoes. “Very creative.”
“你说得对，”她说，眼睛仍然盯着她的鞋子。“非常有创意。”

Running his hand up and along his jaw to hold the back of his neck, Lucius found himself at a loss for what to do. Or to say. Books were Granger’s solace and safety and she’d just been betrayed by one in a rather significant fashion. How could he be the one to comfort her? Why would he want to? They could barely exchange pleasantries without sniping at one another. 
卢修斯的手沿着他的下巴滑过，握住了他的后颈，他发现自己不知道该怎么办。或者说。书籍是格兰杰的慰藉和安全，而她刚刚被一本书以相当重大的方式背叛了。他怎么能是那个安慰她的人呢？他为什么想要呢？他们几乎无法在不互相狙击的情况下寒暄。

Lucius swallowed as he watched her, head bent and rubbing her tennis shoes together, suddenly overwhelmingly aware of her relative youth. 
卢修斯看着她咽了口口水，低着头揉搓着她的网球鞋，突然间，他压倒性地意识到自己相对年轻了。

Would she tell the Aurors if he made no attempt at amends? They’d make his life barely worth living and he was already at a rather low ebb.
如果傲罗没有试图和好，她会告诉傲罗吗？他们会让他的生活变得几乎不值得活下去，而他已经处于相当低谷。

“Miss Granger.” Lucius clasped his hands behind his back and raised his eyes to the domed ceiling as he took in a deep, steadying breath. “I am…sorry.” 
“格兰杰小姐。”卢修斯双手紧握在背后，抬起眼睛看向圆顶天花板，深深地吸了一口气。“我......对不起。

The word felt unfamiliar on his tongue, especially in her company. The ‘r’s weren’t right somehow. Too many of them, maybe; why make that word longer than it had to be? 
这个词在他的舌头上感觉很陌生，尤其是在她的陪伴下。'r'不知何故不对。也许他们太多了;为什么要让这个词比它必须的长呢？

“I didn’t think—” He stopped and repressed a wince when she lifted her head to reveal sorrowfully large eyes. At least they’d stopped glistening. “I will have Draco comb the library tomorrow. We’ll make it safe and you can…explore freely going forward.”
“我没想过——”他停了下来，当她抬起头露出那双悲哀的大眼睛时，他压抑住了一丝畏缩。至少他们不再闪闪发光了。“我明天会让德拉科梳理图书馆。我们会确保安全，您可以...自由探索未来。

Rubbing at her eyes, she cleared her throat and nodded. He spied red marks on her wrist and scrapes on the backs of her hands that made him feel, dare he say it, uncomfortable. 
她揉了揉眼睛，清了清嗓子，点了点头。他发现她手腕上的红色印记和手背上的擦伤让他感到，他敢说，不舒服。

“Did I hurt you?” he asked. 
“我伤害了你吗？”

“Not really,” she looked down at her wrists and offered him a tremulous smile. “You helped me, I suppose.”
“不是真的，”她低头看着自己的手腕，向他露出一个颤抖的微笑。“我想，你帮了我。”

He blinked at that. He had helped her. Had he? Instinctively, he’d tried to, at least. How novel.
他眨了眨眼。他帮助了她。是吗？至少，本能地，他试过这样做。多么新奇。

“Allowing you to just take the bloody book would have been less physically harmful to both of us,” he grumbled, bringing a hand behind him to rub at his aching back. 
“让你拿走那本的书对我们俩的身体伤害会小一些，”他抱怨道，将一只手放在身后揉了揉他酸痛的背部。

He could still hear the smack of her hands hitting the floor. He’d been rather fortunate it hadn’t been her head. That would have been another reason for the Aurors to descend on him in a rather spectacular, murderous fashion.
他仍然能听到她的手敲打地板的声音。他很幸运，不是她的头。那将是傲罗以相当壮观、杀戮的方式降临到他身上的另一个原因。

“I think this is preferable to the humiliation of being forced to read about how to be an obedient little Mudblood, don’t you?”
“我觉得这比被迫阅读如何成为一个听话的小泥巴种的羞辱要好，不是吗？”

Looking around at the surrounding shelves, he muttered noncommittally, well aware that he wouldn’t have been the one reading about how to be an obedient little Mudblood, yet he was the one with a bruised spine. When he turned back to her, he found she was watching him intently. Too intently. It was making him uncomfortable.
环顾周围的书架，他漫不经心地咕哝着，很清楚他不会是那个读到如何成为一个听话的小泥巴种的人，但他却是那个脊椎瘀伤的人。当他转身看向她时，他发现她正聚精会神地看着他。太专注了。这让他很不舒服。

“Would you like tea?” he asked, the question falling out of his lips for a lack of anything else to say. Everyone offered tea after everything, whether it was a trying day or a minor trauma. “You can take it on the terrace.”
“你想喝茶吗？” 他问道，因为没什么可说的了，这个问题从他的嘴里说了出来。每个人都在一切之后提供茶水，无论是艰难的一天还是轻微的创伤。“你可以在露台上带它。”

“We haven’t found the—” she gestured to the wider library, clearly meaning the album they’d been looking for in the first place.
“我们还没找到——”她指了指更广阔的图书馆，显然是指他们一开始一直在寻找的专辑。

“I think that can wait, somehow,” he said, trying to keep his impatience out of his voice.
“我觉得那可以等一等，不知怎么的，”他说，试图把不耐烦从他的声音中挤出来。

Hesitating for only a second, she nodded. “Will you come?”
她只犹豫了一秒钟，就点了点头。“你会来吗？”

Eyeing the earnestness on her face, Lucius grimaced and swallowed his immediate urge to decline. “Very well.”
看着她脸上的认真，卢修斯做了个鬼脸，吞下了他立即想要拒绝的冲动。“很好。”

Eyes closed, enjoying the heat of the sun on her skin, Hermione breathed in the summer breeze. It smelled particularly nice in the Malfoys’ garden. Fresh, clean air, with a hint of something floral alongside freshly cut grass. The faint gurgle of the fountain nearby only added to the peace. She felt fractionally better now that she was out of that house. 
赫敏闭上眼睛，享受着阳光照在她皮肤上的热量，呼吸着夏日的微风。它在马尔福家的花园里闻起来特别好闻。清新、干净的空气，在新鲜割下的草地上带有淡淡的花香。附近喷泉微弱的潺潺流淌，更增添了宁静。现在她离开了那所房子，感觉好多了。

Opening her eyes, she found Lucius Malfoy looking at her rather oddly. Both like he didn’t want to be there and like he was waiting to have to catch her if she toppled suddenly from her chair. It was nicer than disdain and dislike, she supposed, but still quite irritating.
睁开眼睛，她发现卢修斯·马尔福正相当奇怪地看着她。既像他不想在那里，又像他在等着如果她突然从椅子上摔下来就必须接住她。她想，这比轻蔑和厌恶要好得多，但还是很烦人。

“I’m fine , Mr Malfoy. I feel much better. You were right in your choice of the terrace. It’s lovely.”
“我很好，马尔福先生。我感觉好多了。你选择的露台是对的。这很可爱。

He nodded curtly and added a splash of milk to his tea before taking a sip. She wasn’t sure why she’d asked him to join her; he wasn’t what anyone would call comforting company. It had just come out. 
他匆匆地点了点头，在茶里加了一点牛奶，然后喝了一口。她不知道自己为什么让他加入她;他不是任何人所说的安慰伙伴。它刚刚出来。

Presumably, she’d simply wanted him there at that moment. He had helped her after all, even if it had been in a somewhat aggressive fashion. Hermione rolled her wrists experimentally. They were fine. The growing ache in all of her muscles was more annoying. She arched her back, cringing at the pain. What on earth had he done?
大概，她只是想让他在那一刻就在那里。毕竟他帮助了她，即使它以一种有点咄咄逼人的方式。赫敏实验性地转动着手腕。他们很好。她所有肌肉越来越痛，这更令人讨厌。她弓起背，因疼痛而畏缩。他到底做了什么？

Relaxing gingerly into her seat again, she took a drink of tea and eyed him over the rim of the cup. The last thing she remembered was wandering down that row, an intangible force leading her along. Then she’d come to and found herself pressed to the ground by Lucius Malfoy. Not a standard Thursday.
她小心翼翼地再次放松到座位上，喝了一口茶，透过杯子的边缘看着他。她记得的最后一件事是沿着那排徘徊，一股无形的力量引导着她前进。然后她回过神来，发现自己被卢修斯·马尔福压在了地上。不是一个标准的星期四。

Awareness had all come rather back slowly. First she’d felt the pain of his hand gripping her wrist, then the press of his legs against her hips, then the solid stone under her back. As the room had come into focus, she’d come face to face with his utterly unreadable expression. An embarrassed warmth spread over Hermione’s cheeks as she imagined that scene from an outsider’s perspective. Trying to explain that to Draco if he’d wandered in would have been interesting.
意识都恢复得相当缓慢。首先，她感觉到他的手抓住她的手腕的疼痛，然后是他的双腿压在她的臀部上，然后是她背下坚硬的石头。当房间成为焦点时，她面对着他完全无法理解的表情。赫敏的脸颊上蔓延着一股尴尬的温暖，她从一个局外人的角度想象着那一幕。如果 Draco 走进来了，试着向他解释这一点会很有趣。

Horrified by the idea that she might have damaged them, Hermione had immediately set about picking up the fallen books from the library floor but when she’d straightened up and found Lucius gone, she’d felt unexpectedly uncertain. He hadn’t said he was going anywhere. He hadn’t told her if he thought there would be any more harmful books. Still feeling delicate, she’d decided to wait for him and the relief when he’d finally turned the corner had completely thrown her for a loop. 
赫敏害怕自己可能损坏了它们，她立即着手从图书馆地板上捡起掉落的书，但当她直起身来发现卢修斯不见了时，她感到意外的不确定。他没有说他哪儿也要去。他没有告诉她，如果他认为还会有更多有害的书。她仍然觉得很脆弱，她决定等他，当他终于转过拐角时，她松了一口气，这让她完全陷入了困境。

Imagine feeling relief at the sight of Lucius bloody Malfoy. 
想象一下，看到卢修斯血腥的马尔福时，你会感到如释重负。

“They’ll likely bruise,” he said, nodding to her wrists.
“他们可能会有瘀伤，”他说，一边朝她的手腕点点头。

She nodded, rubbing her thumb softly over one of the scrapes. They probably would. Most of her probably would. And he would be worried about anyone connecting that back to him. 
她点点头，用拇指轻轻地擦过其中一处擦痕。他们可能会。她中的大多数人可能会。他会担心有人把这件事和他联系起来。

“Don’t worry, I’ll be discreet ,” she said, a conspiratorial dip in her tone as she used his favourite word. “I’ll just tell Ginny I had a particularly amorous night.” 
“别担心，我会小心翼翼的，”她说，当她使用他最喜欢的词时，她的语气中带着阴谋论的语气。“我就告诉金妮，我度过了一个特别多情的夜晚。”

Her intention had been to be funny because Ginny would obviously never believe that of her but his expression turned stony and her smile slipped. “I’m joking,” she said quickly. “I’ve got bruise removal balm.”
她本来是想搞笑的，因为金妮显然永远不会相信她这样，但他的表情变得坚硬，她的笑容也消失了。“我在开玩笑，”她很快说。“我有瘀伤去除膏。”

He nodded once and she rolled her eyes. And people called her uptight.  
他点了点头，她翻了个白眼。人们说她很紧张。

“Will you really have Draco comb the library?” she asked. He nodded solemnly and she pursed her lips. “I thought you didn’t want me exploring?”
“你真的会让德拉科梳理图书馆吗？”他郑重地点点头，她抿起嘴唇。“我以为你不想让我去探究？”

“Miss Granger, you are drawn to trouble like a Bowtruckle to a wand tree, so I think it best if I remove all immediately obvious sources of danger while you’re in my home. I don’t particularly relish the idea of Aurors being able to accuse me of murder by negligence.”
“格兰杰小姐，你就像 Bowtruckle 对魔杖树一样被麻烦所吸引，所以我认为最好趁你在我家的时候消除所有显而易见的危险源。我不是特别喜欢傲罗能够指控我因疏忽而谋杀的想法。

Hermione snorted softly into her tea and shook her head. Of course that was his main motivation. Still, at least he hadn’t just left her. If she was honest with herself that’s exactly what she’d have expected him to do. That book wouldn’t have killed her but the idea that she’d have been imprisoned in a cycle of reading it, her mind subjected to its poison, made her feel sick.
赫敏轻轻地哼了一声，然后摇了摇头。当然，这是他的主要动机。不过，至少他没有就这样离开她。如果她对自己诚实，那正是她期望他做的事情。那本书不会杀死她，但一想到她会被囚禁在阅读它的循环中，她的心灵受到它的毒药，她就感到恶心。

“Thanks for helping me, anyway. Your father was a piece of work.”
“总之，谢谢你帮助我。你爸爸是个活头。

His cold, grey eyes cut to hers and she held her breath, worried she’d stepped over the line while wishing that he’d just make it more obvious where it was. 
他冰冷、灰色的眼睛直视着她，她屏住呼吸，担心自己越过了界线，同时希望他能把事情说得更清楚。

“Yes, he was,” Lucius said with a single, slow nod and Hermione immediately exhaled, offering him a weak smile which he didn’t return. 
“是的，他是，”卢修斯缓缓地点了点头，赫敏立即呼出一口气，向他露出一个虚弱的微笑，但他没有回应。

They sat in silence for a while, drinking their tea and looking out across the grounds. Outside that one meeting where Malfoy had ignored her for a full hour, it was the longest they’d ever sat in silence together without being occupied by other things. And it was…nice. Certainly not taut with fractious tension the way that early meeting had been. 
他们静静地坐了一会儿，喝着茶，望着外面的花园。除了马尔福无视她整整一个小时的那次会议之外，这是他们一起静坐的时间最长的一次，没有被其他事情占据。而且它是......好。当然不像早期见面那样因紧张而紧张。

Sliding her eyes from the bird hopping along the stone wall of the terrace over to Malfoy, Hermione covertly inspected him. He appeared deep in thought, his eyes fixed on a point some way in the distance, a finger stroking absently against the rim of his teacup. There had, she was sure, been a time when he would have found it amusing to leave her to that book but apparently they were no longer living in it. Suddenly, his touch that evening in his study didn't seem like such an unsolvable puzzle anymore. At some point, something had simply shifted. At some point, their fear of one another, their desire to hurt one another, had taken a back seat.
赫敏的目光从那只沿着露台石墙跳来跳去的鸟儿身上滑过，看向马尔福，偷偷地打量着他。他似乎陷入了沉思，眼睛盯着远处的某个点，一根手指心不在焉地抚摸着他的茶杯边缘。她敢肯定，曾经有一段时间，他会觉得把她留给那本书很有趣，但显然他们已经不在书里了。突然间，那天晚上他在书房里的触碰似乎不再是一个无法解开的谜题。在某个时候，有些事情发生了变化。在某个时候，他们对彼此的恐惧，他们想要伤害彼此的愿望，已经退居二线。

“Mr Malfoy,” Hermione began, toying with the handle of her teacup, “if you don’t—didn’t—like your father, why did you listen to so much of what he told you? Why did you do what he wanted?”
“马尔福先生，”赫敏开始玩弄她的茶杯把手，“如果你不像——没有——像你爸爸那样，你为什么听他告诉你这么多话呢？你为什么做他想做的事？

Coming back into himself, Malfoy turned to face her with a thoughtful frown. His finger that had been running along the rim of his teacup stopped and hovered over it for a moment before settling on it again, still this time. 
马尔福回过神来，转过身来面对她，皱着若有所思的眉头。他一直沿着茶杯边缘滑行的手指停了下来，在上面盘旋了一会儿，然后又停了下来，这一次还是。

“I didn’t like my father, Miss Granger, no,” he said with a brief shake of his head. “I couldn’t abide by his view of what it meant to be a father and a husband. He was cruel, even to those who would have loved him, had he let them.” 
“我不喜欢我的父亲，格兰杰小姐，不，”他短暂地摇了摇头说。“我无法接受他对成为父亲和丈夫意味着什么的看法。他很残忍，即使对那些本来会爱他的人，如果他允许的话。

He exhaled softly through his nose. “But he was good at being a Malfoy and that was what I, too, had to be – wanted to be. No matter how much I hated him, I wanted the Malfoy name and the things that came with it: power, influence, wealth. Success, in other words. He had everything I wanted and so I was sure that, detestable as he was, he must have been right about some things. Or at the very least doing some things right. He was a piece of work, as you say, but he was a hard man to dismiss entirely.”
他从鼻子里轻轻地呼出一口气。“但他很擅长成为一个马尔福，而那也是我必须成为的——想成为。无论我多么讨厌他，我都想要马尔福的名字和随之而来的东西：权力、影响力、财富。换句话说，成功。他拥有我想要的一切，所以我确信，尽管他很可憎，但他在某些事情上一定是对的。或者至少做一些正确的事情。正如你所说，他是一件工作，但他是一个很难完全忽视的人。

Hermione nodded and looked out over the grounds, feeling Malfoy’s eyes still on the side of her face. In that moment, in her tired state, it felt needlessly combative to ask him if he regretted wanting what his father had. A pointless question , he would tell her. And she wouldn’t disagree.
赫敏点点头，望向外面的地面，感觉到马尔福的眼睛仍然盯着她的脸。在那一刻，在她疲惫的状态下，问他是否后悔想要他父亲所拥有的东西，感觉毫无必要地好斗。 一个毫无意义的问题，他会告诉她。她不会不同意。

“I think I might go,” Hermione said when her tea cup was empty and the breeze had picked up just enough to be chilly. 
“我想我可能会走，”赫敏说，这时她的茶杯是空的，微风已经吹得足够冷了。

Malfoy nodded and got to his feet. Hermione looked down at the ground and realised she didn’t have her bag. “My bag,” she said, looking up at him. “I must have left it in your—”
马尔福点点头，站了起来。赫敏低头看了看地面，意识到她没有带包。“我的包，”她说，抬头看着他。“我一定是把它留在你的——”

“I’ll get it,” he said sharply. “I left the book in there and I’d rather you didn’t…I’ll get it.”
“我会得到的，”他尖锐地说。“我把书留在那儿，我宁愿你不要......我会得到的。

Nodding, Hermione settled back into her seat and watched him as he disappeared into the manor, her left thumb absently brushing over the scrapes on the back of her right hand.
赫敏点点头，坐回座位上，看着他消失在庄园里，左手拇指心不在焉地抚摸着右手背上的擦伤。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

I was ready to post this chapter and just ended up rewriting massive chunks of it because I obviously hate myself. Describing "action" is, like, hard. I hope it was okay! Thanks all for being so genuinely excellent.
我本来准备发布这一章，但最终重写了一大段，因为我显然讨厌自己。描述“行动”就像很难。我希望没事！感谢大家的真诚优秀。

Chapter 19
第十九章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione finally gets to look through the photo album.
赫敏终于可以翻看相册了。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you all for your kind comments on the last chapter. Wonderful people!
感谢大家对上一章的友好评论。很棒的人！

June 17th  
6 月 17 日

The photo album and a note were waiting for Hermione when she arrived in the Malfoy library. Lucius Malfoy was nowhere in sight. Picking up the note first, however, Hermione recognised his neat, sweeping handwriting. 
相册和一张纸条正在等着赫敏来到马尔福图书馆。卢修斯·马尔福不见了。然而，赫敏先拿起那张纸条，认出了他工整、流畅的笔迹。

The library is now safe for unbearably nosy wanderers.
图书馆现在对那些爱管闲事的流浪者来说是安全的。

Hermione grinned at the note, practically able to hear the lilting drawl he used when he wanted to cut but not deeply. Setting the sheet of parchment down, she turned her attention to the second thing he’d left.
赫敏对着这张纸条咧嘴一笑，几乎能听到他想切的时候用的轻快的拖曳声，但又听不见。放下那张羊皮纸，她把注意力转向他留下的第二样东西。

It was a thick album, bound in a deep green, soft leather. Hermione ran her hand over it, her fingers brushing under the edge of the cover. It didn't feel quite right to her that she would look through it alone. Obviously, though, he had left it there for that very purpose.
这是一本厚厚的专辑，装订在深绿色的柔软皮革中。赫敏用手抚摸着它，她的手指在盖子的边缘下抚摸着。她觉得自己一个人看完它不太对劲。不过，显然他把它留在那里就是为了这个目的。

Slowly opening the album, Hermione peered down at the early pictures. A pretty young woman Hermione recognised from news clippings as Aurelia Malfoy blinked up at her from a posed scene. Turning the page, Hermione saw her seated in the same scene with a woman and a man standing on either side of her, their hands on her shoulders. She assumed they were her parents. 
赫敏慢慢地打开相册，低头凝视着早期的照片。一个漂亮的年轻女子赫敏从新闻剪报中认出，奥瑞莉亚·马尔福从一个摆姿势的场景中向她眨了眨眼。翻开书页，赫敏看到她坐在同一个场景中，一个女人和一个男人站在她的两侧，他们的手搭在她的肩膀上。她以为他们是她的父母。

Flicking a few pages forward, Hermione recognised the original version of the photo she’d seen in the newspaper announcement of her wedding to Abraxas Malfoy. Gazing into the man’s eyes, cold even in a photograph, Hermione frowned. Initially she’d thought Lucius Malfoy was an exact replica of his father but now that she’d spent time with him she could recognise differences. His brows were less severe and heavy—they had some of Aurelia’s softness—and his lips were the same. When he wasn’t sneering, of course.
向前翻了几页，赫敏认出了她在报纸上看到的她和阿布拉克萨斯·马尔福结婚时看到的照片的原始版本。看着男人的眼睛，即使在照片中也显得冰冷，赫敏皱起了眉头。起初，她认为卢修斯·马尔福是他父亲的精确复制品，但现在她和他相处了一段时间，她就能认出不同之处。他的眉毛不那么严肃和沉重——它们有一些奥瑞梨的柔和——他的嘴唇也是一样的。当然，当他没有冷笑的时候。

On another page Aurelia and Abraxas were pictured at what appeared to be a garden party in the manor. There were other figures milling around but Hermione didn’t know enough about Pure-blood circles at that time to be able to identify them. Glancing over at the back of the page, Hermione looked for any names or notes but found nothing. It wasn’t especially useful if she didn’t know who she was looking at. 
在另一页上，奥雷利亚和阿布拉克萨斯被拍到似乎在庄园里参加花园派对。还有其他人在周围转来转去，但赫敏当时对纯血法阵的了解还不够多，无法识别它们。赫敏瞥了一眼书页的背面，寻找任何名字或笔记，但什么也没找到。如果她不知道自己在看谁，那就不是特别有用了。

A few more photos of unidentifiable figures later, Hermione closed the album, her lips scrunched in thought. Surely Mr Malfoy wouldn’t mind telling her? He had left the album out, after all. Lifting it into her arms, Hermione began carrying the album towards the door before stalling just short of it. Maybe he had left it out for her because he didn’t want to talk over it with her.
又拍了几张无法辨认的人的照片后，赫敏合上了相册，她的嘴唇因沉思而皱起。马尔福先生肯定不介意告诉她吧？毕竟，他把这张专辑忘在了外面。赫敏把它抱在怀里，开始把相册拿向门口，然后在它附近停了下来。也许他没有给她看，因为他不想和她谈论这件事。

With a shake of her head, Hermione carried on her way to his study. He had to realise by now that he couldn’t just give her something like this and not expect questions. The album cradled in one arm, Hermione knocked on his study door and waited. There was a long stretch of silence and she was considering turning around when he finally spoke.
赫敏摇了摇头，继续向他的书房走去。他现在必须意识到，他不能只给她这样的东西，而不期待问题。赫敏一只胳膊抱着相册，敲响了他的书房门，等待着。沉默了很长一段时间，当他终于开口时，她正在考虑转身。

“What do you want, Miss Granger?” came his muffled voice. Even through the wood Hermione could hear his weary exasperation and grinned. That sounded like an invitation to her. 
“你想干什么，格兰杰小姐？”即使隔着木头，赫敏也能听到他疲惫的愤怒，咧嘴一笑。这听起来像是对她的邀请。

Entering the study, Hermione found Malfoy sitting on his sofa before the fire. He turned to look over the back of the sofa when she entered, his eyes following her as she walked around it to come to a stop in front of him. There was a book open in his lap and the sight of it made her feel a tiny twinge of guilt. Interrupting private reading time was an unforgivable social sin.
走进书房，赫敏发现马尔福坐在火堆前的沙发上。当她进来时，他转身看向沙发的靠背，他的眼睛跟着她绕着沙发走，在他面前停了下来。他的腿上打开着一本书，看到它让她感到一丝愧疚。打断私人阅读时间是一种不可原谅的社会罪恶。

“I’m sorry, I didn’t realise you were reading,” she said, trying to convey that she was genuinely apologetic. “I can come back later.”
“对不起，我没意识到你在读，”她说，试图表达她是真诚的歉意。“我可以晚点回来。”

“No,” he said, his voice resigned as he closed the book and sat it on the small table beside the sofa. “You’re here now so tell me what you want. ”
“不，”他说，他合上书，坐在沙发旁边的小桌子上。“你现在在这里，所以告诉我你想要什么。”

Holding the album up in front of her face, Hermione lowered it to her chin to peer down at him. “You left this for me I assume?”
赫敏把相册举到面前，把它放到下巴上，低头看着他。“我想，这是你留给我的吧？”

“I did.”
“我做到了。”

“ Well .” Hermione turned on the spot and lowered herself onto the sofa beside him, pressing the album into his lap as she went. “I hoped you might be able to take me through some of the photos and provide me with some names and context.”
“嗯。”赫敏当场转过身来，坐到他旁边的沙发上，一边走一边把相册压在他的腿上。“我希望你能带我浏览一些照片，并为我提供一些名字和背景。”

Lucius blinked down at the album and then looked her in the face. “I thought it’d all be rather obvious.”
Lucius低头看着相册，然后看着她的脸。“我以为这一切都会很明显。”

“Not for every photo.” Hermione shook her head and scooted closer to him until the sides of their legs were touching, flipping the cover of the album open as she did so. His entire body was tense as she leaned forward and flicked over a few pages, eventually reaching the garden party. “This photo, for instance. I’m not really sure who everyone else is.”
“不是每张照片。”赫敏摇了摇头，快步靠近他，直到他们的腿两侧接触，同时掀开了专辑的封面。当她身体前倾并翻阅了几页时，他的整个身体都紧绷着，最终到达了花园派对。“比如这张照片。我不太确定其他人是谁。

Brushing her hair over her shoulder, Hermione turned her head to look up at him and found his expression muddled, like he’d short-circuited. “If you’d rather not, it’s okay. As nice as the thought was, I don’t need these, really; it’s more of a personal curiosity.”
赫敏把头发拂过肩膀，转头看他，发现他的表情很混乱，就像他短路了一样。“如果你不想，那也没关系。尽管这个想法很好，但我真的不需要这些;这更多的是个人的好奇心。

“No,” he said after a beat. “No, I can…” He cleared his throat and pointed through the faces, grouping the couples with his fore and middle fingers. “The Blacks; the Lestranges; the Greengrasses; the Notts; the Averys; and the Parkinsons.”
“不，”他打了一会儿后说。“不，我可以......”他清了清嗓子，指着他们的脸，用食指和中指把这对夫妇分组。“黑人;莱斯特兰奇一家;格林格拉斯夫妇;诺茨;艾弗里斯;和帕金森氏症。

“Ah." Hermione peered closer at the photo, looking over Malfoy’s finger. “Yes, she does look like Pansy.”
“啊。”赫敏仔细地看着那张照片，越过马尔福的手指。“是的，她确实长得像潘西。”

“That doesn’t sound like a compliment,” Malfoy said, giving her an amused sidelong look. 
“这听起来不像是恭维，”马尔福说，好笑地侧头看了她一眼。

“That’s because it isn’t.”
“那是因为事实并非如此。”

Malfoy laughed once through his nose and continued to turn the pages, quietly naming the inhabitants of the photos and explaining to Hermione where they were. They seemed to mostly have been taken at the various estates of the Pure-blood families. It struck Hermione as an active but extremely limited social circle and Aurelia Malfoy's smile appeared pretty but practised. Abraxas Malfoy did not smile. Ever. None of the men in the photos seemed to, actually.
马尔福从鼻子里笑了一下，继续翻页，悄悄地说出照片里的居民的名字，并向赫敏解释他们在哪里。他们似乎大部分是在纯血统家族的各个庄园被带走的。赫敏觉得她是一个活跃但极其有限的社交圈子，而奥瑞莉亚·马尔福的笑容看起来很漂亮，但很老练。阿布拉克萨斯·马尔福没有笑。曾。实际上，照片中的男人似乎都没有。

"Pure-blood men don't smile very much, do they?"
“纯血统的男人很少笑，对吧？”

Malfoy's fingers stuttered at the corner of a page and he turned his head fractionally towards her.
马尔福的手指在一页纸的一角结结巴巴地抽搐着，他微微地把头转向她。

"Why would they?"
“他们为什么会呢？”

"I don't know," Hermione mumbled, feeling silly for her observation in the face of his perplexity. "To communicate their happiness to be with the ones they love?"
“我不知道，”赫敏喃喃自语，面对他的困惑，她觉得自己的观察很傻。“传达他们和他们所爱的人在一起的快乐？”

Malfoy's single raised eyebrow in response made her blush and feel even sillier. As though her brain was determined to make things worse, she tried to explain herself further, the words coming in a rush. "Well, it might make them look a bit friendlier. I prefer it when you smile and don't do that awful sneer thing. It makes your lips softer. Your face, too."
马尔福的回应是抬起的眉毛让她脸红了，感觉更傻了。仿佛她的大脑决心让事情变得更糟，她试图进一步解释自己，话语匆匆忙忙。“嗯，这可能会让他们看起来更友好一些。我更喜欢你微笑的时候，不要做那种可怕的冷笑。它让你的嘴唇更柔软。你的脸也是。

Hermione could tell by the expression on his face that Malfoy was willing her to shut up and she couldn't say she disagreed with him. 'It makes your lips softer' would haunt her until her dying day. Even if it was true and she did prefer it.
赫敏从他脸上的表情可以看出，马尔福愿意她闭嘴，她不能说她不同意他。“它让你的嘴唇更柔软”会一直困扰着她，直到她临终的那一天。即使这是真的，而且她确实更喜欢它。

"Softness isn't a trait we value, Miss Granger."
“柔软不是我们重视的特质，格兰杰小姐。”

Risking a glance up at his face, Hermione was pleased to see that while he wasn't smiling, he wasn't sneering either. He was just inspecting her thoughtfully. Her eyes flicked down to his lips and back up. They were definitely more like his mother's than his father's; she could see that now. They weren't made for sneering.
赫敏冒险抬头看了一眼他的脸，很高兴地看到他虽然没有笑，也没有冷笑。他只是若有所思地打量着她。她的眼睛向下扫向他的嘴唇，然后又向上看。他们肯定更像他母亲的，而不是他父亲的;她现在能看到这一点。他们不是为讥讽而生的。

"Let's move on, Miss Granger," he said quietly, turning his attention back to the album.
“我们继续吧，格兰杰小姐，”他轻声说，把注意力转回那张专辑上。

As Malfoy turned another page Hermione gripped her own knees with delight. "That's you, isn't it? Please tell me that's you."
当马尔福翻开另一页时，赫敏高兴地紧紧抓住自己的膝盖。“就是你，不是吗？请告诉我那是你。

The photo was of Aurelia, her eyes lovingly fixed on a baby she was gently rocking in her arms. For the first time, her smile looked genuine. Hermione heard Malfoy sigh. 
那张照片是 Aurelia 的，她的眼睛深情地注视着她怀里轻轻摇晃的婴儿。她的笑容第一次显得真诚。赫敏听到马尔福叹了口气。

"I can and will end this."
“我可以而且一定会结束这一切。”

"I was just—"
“我只是——”

"It is me. And you will comment no further."
“是我。你不会再多说了。

Hermione pressed her lips flat between her teeth and bit down. The further they moved through the photos, the older Malfoy got and the more difficult Hermione found it to contain herself. 
赫敏把嘴唇贴在牙齿之间，咬了下去。他们越看照片，马尔福就越老，赫敏发现自己也就越难控制自己。

"You are vibrating ," Malfoy said, his voice heavy with disdain as he looked down to see her arm repeatedly brushing against his as she shook with laughter.
“你在颤抖，”马尔福说，他低头看到她的手臂反复擦过他的手臂，她笑得发抖。

"I'm sorry," she breathed, her eyes shimmering with mirth. "It's just...look at what you're wearing."
“对不起，”她喘着气，眼睛里闪烁着欢笑的光芒。“只是......看看你穿的是什么。

A toddler Malfoy dressed in absurdly frilly formal robes scowled out at them. He was held in his mother's arms while his father stood beside them in the adult version of those same robes. Aurelia, Hermione couldn't help but notice, looked far thinner and more drawn than she had at the start of the album. It dampened some of her glee.
一个蹒跚学步的马尔福穿着荒谬的褶边正装长袍，向他们怒目而视。他被母亲抱在怀里，而他的父亲则穿着同样的成人版长袍站在他们身边。赫敏忍不住注意到，奥瑞梨看起来比专辑开始时瘦得多，也更吸引人。这让她的一些喜悦有所减弱。

"I didn't exactly have a choice," Malfoy said through gritted teeth, struggling to maintain his air of stoic dignity. 
“我完全别无选择，”马尔福咬牙切齿地说，努力保持他坚忍不拔的尊严。

When Hermione failed to stifle her next laugh, Lucius gave a long-suffering sigh and moved to close the album. Hermione’s hand shot out and seized his wrist. “No, don’t!” she insisted, her eyes still watering. “I’m sorry, I swear I’ll stop.”
当赫敏没能抑制住她的下一个笑声时，卢修斯长忍着叹了口气，然后合上了相册。赫敏的手猛地伸出，抓住了他的手腕。“不，不要！” 她坚持说，她的眼睛仍然在流泪。“对不起，我发誓我会停下来。”

Eyebrows raised, Lucius looked down at her hold on his wrist and then back up to her face. Hermione’s cheeks burned and she relinquished him, her hands coming back into her lap, clenched. “You don’t need to take it so seriously,” she said. “It’s not like you dress like that now .” She directed a hand at him. “You dress very well.”
卢修斯扬起眉毛，低头看了看她握住他的手腕，然后又抬头看向她的脸。赫敏的脸颊灼热起来，她放弃了他，她的手又回到了她的腿上，紧握着。“你不需要这么认真，”她说。“你现在可不是穿成那样的。”她用一只手指着他。“你穿得真好。”

Lucius scoffed but reopened the album to where they’d been. “You are just full of observations about me today, aren’t you?”
Lucius 嗤之以鼻，但还是把相册重新打开了，回到了他们刚才去的地方。“你今天对我充满了观察，不是吗？”

“All complimentary,” Hermione pointed out primly. It was only when the words had left her mouth that she blinked, realising the truth of them. Eyes sliding over to him, Hermione observed the pressed sleeves of his shirt and the perfect fit of his waistcoat. No cravat again, she noted, just the open neck of his shirt. His manner of dress was formal but she did like it. She liked neatness, smartness. She liked attention to detail and Lucius Malfoy certainly had that. He dressed to his own advantage.
“都是赞美的，”赫敏一本正经地指出。直到这些话从她嘴里说出来时，她才眨了眨眼，意识到了这些话的真实性。赫敏的眼睛滑向他，观察着他衬衫的压袖和背心的完美合身。她注意到，又没有领结了，只有他衬衫敞开的领口。他的着装很正式，但她确实喜欢。她喜欢整洁、聪明。她喜欢注重细节，卢修斯·马尔福当然有这种感觉。他穿着对自己有利。

“All unnecessary ,” Malfoy responded, breaking her train of thought. Hermione cleared her throat and turned her attention back to the album, blinking rapidly. 
“都是不必要的，”马尔福回答道，打断了她的思路。赫敏清了清嗓子，把注意力转回相册上，快速眨了眨眼。

A few pages on, there was another garden party but this one was populated by young children. Lucius Malfoy, still dressed formally, stood beside three young girls in frilly dress robes and one boy. 
几页后，又有一场花园派对，但这次派对上都是年幼的孩子。卢修斯·马尔福仍然穿着正式，站在三个穿着褶边长袍的年轻女孩和一个男孩旁边。

"The Blacks," he said. "Our families were quite close in these years at our parents' insistence. I imagine marriage contracts were being discussed."
“黑人，”他说。“这些年，在父母的坚持下，我们的家庭非常亲密。我想他们当时正在讨论婚约。

"That's Sirius, isn’t it?" Hermione asked with surprise, pointing to the familiar young boy furthest to the left with long messy hair and mischievous eyes. He continually sidled out of the frame only to be shoved back in by a disembodied hand. 
“那是小天狼星，不是吗？”赫敏惊讶地问道，指着左边最远的那个熟悉的小男孩，他有一头凌乱的长发和调皮的眼睛。他不断地从画面中溜出来，却被一只没有实体的手推了回来。

"Yes, his mother thought it best that he spend more time with myself and his cousins. An attempt at establishing some corrective influences. I hated when he visited,” Malfoy added darkly. “Nowhere ever felt safe to sit down."
“是的，他妈妈认为他最好多花点时间陪伴我和他的表兄弟姐妹。试图建立一些纠正影响。我讨厌他来的时候，“马尔福阴沉地补充道。“从来没有任何地方觉得坐下来很安全。”

Hermione giggled at the thought of Sirius leaving a whoopie cushion down in every room of Malfoy Manor and received a glare for it. ”What age were you here?” she asked, straightening her face out.
赫敏一想到小天狼星在马尔福庄园的每个房间里都留下了一个百合垫子，就咯咯地笑了起来，并因此受到了一瞪。“你几岁了？” 她问道，直起脸来。

“I was 9, or thereabouts,” he said, tilting his head as he inspected the photo. “That would make Black around 4 or 5. Bellatrix…possibly 11? She was already at Hogwarts, anyway.” Hermione inspected the heavy-lidded eyes of the young Bellatrix with distaste. Even then she looked haughty and annoyed to be there, her hands on her hips, her chin raised and her eyes staring disdainfully out of the page. 
“我当时 9 岁左右，”他说，一边歪着头看照片。“这将使黑方在 4 或 5 左右。贝拉特里克斯。。。可能是 11 个？反正她已经在霍格沃茨了。赫敏厌恶地打量着年轻的贝拉特里克斯沉重的眼睑。即便如此，她还是显得傲慢而恼火，双手叉腰，下巴抬起，眼睛轻蔑地盯着书页。

“Andromeda.” He pointed at a brunette girl who was holding her hand out to Sirius, encouraging him to take it. “Was the same age as myself. Narcissa must have been eight.”
“仙女座。”他指着一个黑发女孩，她正向小天狼星伸出手，鼓励他握住手。“和我同龄。纳西莎肯定是八岁。

Hermione looked at the little blonde girl who would lean around Bellatrix at regular intervals to gaze with wide-eyed admiration at an utterly oblivious and visibly bored Lucius. It was so odd to her to see them all like this; to see proof that they'd all been children once. 
赫敏看着那个金发小女孩，她会每隔一段时间就靠在贝拉特里克斯身边，睁大眼睛羡慕地注视着一个完全忘乎所以、明显无聊的卢修斯。看到他们全都这样，她觉得太奇怪了;看到他们都曾经是孩子的证据。

"It must be quite nice to have all of these,” Hermione said. “Especially because they move. I’ve always liked wizard photos.”
“拥有这些一定很不错，”赫敏说。“特别是因为他们会移动。我一直很喜欢巫师照片。

“You don’t have such things?”
“你没有这些东西吗？”

“Muggle photos don’t move,” Hermione explained. “And I don’t have any. Not of my family, anyway. Well,” she said hesitantly, “that’s not strictly true, actually. I kept one but I sent the rest away with mum and dad and destroyed all of the photos I was in.”
“麻瓜的照片不会移动，”赫敏解释道。“而我没有。反正不是我家的。嗯，“她犹豫地说，”实际上，这并不严格地说。我保留了一个，但我把剩下的和爸爸妈妈一起送走了，并销毁了我拍摄的所有照片。

“You really were thorough, then,” he said quietly, watching her from the corner of his eyes.
“那么，你真的很彻底，”他用眼角的余光看着她，轻声说。

“Mmm,” Hermione nodded, a grim smile on her face. “I was just about to properly join the war and I spent my last few evenings in my parents’ home destroying all evidence of my childhood. It was all a bit too on the nose to be genuinely upsetting, actually.”
“嗯，”赫敏点点头，脸上露出阴森的笑容。“我正准备正式参战，我在父母家里度过了最后几个晚上，销毁了我童年的所有证据。实际上，这一切都有点太令人沮丧了。

“Which photo did you keep?”
“你保留了哪张照片？”

Hermione turned her head and found he was looking at her intently, unusually sincere interest on his face. For some reason it made her face grow warm.
赫敏转过头，发现他正专注地看着她，脸上异常真诚地感兴趣。不知为何，这让她的脸变得温暖起来。

“Just one of me with my mum and dad,” she said, breaking eye contact to fiddle with her fingers in her lap. “We were on holiday in France and we’d spent the whole day building a sandcastle on the beach. It was so impressive that someone offered to stop and take a photo of us with it.”
“就我和我爸爸妈妈的一个，”她说，中断了眼神交流，把手指放在膝盖上摆弄。“我们在法国度假，我们花了一整天的时间在海滩上建造了一座沙堡。这太令人印象深刻了，以至于有人主动提出停下来，用它拍张照片。

Hermione’s happy smile faded somewhat as she recalled the rest of the day. “Mum and dad said they think that was the first day I showed signs of magic. The tide came in and swept the castle away. I was distraught, of course. But then the castle sort of…reformed in the sand. As though it’d never been touched.”
赫敏快乐的笑容在回忆起那天剩下的时间时有些褪去。“爸爸妈妈说，他们认为那是我第一次表现出魔法迹象。潮水来了，把城堡冲走了。当然，我心烦意乱。但后来城堡有点......在沙子里改过自新。就好像它从来没有被碰过一样。

Hermione frowned at her knees. “Mum and dad didn’t really know what to do about it. Think they thought for a long time it was some kind of shared hallucination from spending too much time in the sun.”
赫敏皱着眉头跪在地上。“爸爸妈妈真的不知道该怎么做。想想他们长期以来一直认为这是由于在阳光下度过太多时间而产生的某种共同幻觉。

Malfoy scoffed but cut it short at a sharp look from Hermione. He frowned and pursed his lips, looking both puzzled and annoyed by his own instinctive self-censure.
马尔福嗤之以鼻，但被赫敏锐利的眼神打断了。他皱着眉头，抿着嘴唇，看起来对自己本能的自我谴责既困惑又恼火。

“They were—are—wonderful, intelligent, accepting people,” she said. “They didn’t always understand the wizarding world but they tried, even when I would choose it over spending time with them. I was always choosing magic over them,” she added regretfully.
“他们曾经——现在是——很棒的、聪明的、善于接受的人，”她说。“他们并不总是了解魔法世界，但他们尝试了，即使我会选择它而不是花时间与他们在一起。我总是选择魔法而不是他们，“她遗憾地补充道。

“You are a witch,” Malfoy said shortly, earning himself a surprised look from Hermione. “To reject magic for them would be to deny a part of yourself and you, Miss Granger, have made it quite clear that you’re incapable of making yourself smaller for the comfort of anyone else.”
“你是个女巫，”马尔福很快说，赫敏给了他一个惊讶的眼神。“对他们来说，拒绝魔法就是否认你自己的一部分，而你，格兰杰小姐，已经很清楚地表明，你不能为了别人的舒适而让自己变小。”

Hermione locked eyes with him, a rapid flutter passing through her stomach when he didn't look away. It reminded her of two days before, when she’d been lying under him and he, with a tight grip on her chin, had been inspecting her for any lingering bewitchment. Suddenly very aware of the feeling of Malfoy’s leg against her own, Hermione shifted under the pretence of getting more comfortable and moved hers away. “Let’s look at some more.”
赫敏与他对视相接，当他没有移开视线时，一阵快速的颤动从她的肚子中掠过。这让她想起了两天前，当时她躺在他身下，他紧紧地抓住她的下巴，一直在检查她是否有任何挥之不去的蛊惑。突然间，赫敏非常清楚马尔福的腿抵在自己腿上的感觉，她假装变得更舒服了，把她的腿移开了。“我们再看看一些。”

The final photo was of Aurelia and Lucius sitting together on a sofa much like the one Hermione was sitting on with him. Aurelia looked incredibly ill and barely present to Hermione, her cheeks hollow while her eyes sat large and sunken in her face. Her tiny arm was around Lucius' shoulder and he looked sad and anxious, gripping her hand in his lap. Hermione glanced at the adult Lucius as he took the photo in with thin lips. 
最后一张照片是奥瑞梨和卢修斯一起坐在沙发上，很像赫敏和他一起坐的那张。奥瑞梨看起来病得非常严重，几乎不在赫敏面前，她的脸颊凹陷，而她的眼睛则睁大而凹陷。她的小胳膊搂着卢修斯的肩膀，他看起来悲伤而焦虑，把她的手紧紧地抱在腿上。赫敏瞥了一眼成年的卢修斯，他用薄薄的嘴唇把照片接了进去。

"This was shortly before her death,” he said, his voice flat. “I was 14 here in the summer after my third year. She was 34."
“那是在她去世前不久，”他说，声音平淡。“我三年级后的夏天在这里 14 岁。她当时 34 岁。

34 . Before Hermione could truly register how young that was, Lucius closed the album, his hand remaining on the cover as though determined to keep it closed. 
34 .在赫敏真正意识到那是多么年轻之前，卢修斯合上了专辑，他的手一直放在封面上，似乎决心要把它关上。

"Thank you for showing me, Mr Malfoy," Hermione said quietly, her eyes flitting over his profile. 
“谢谢你带我看，马尔福先生，”赫敏轻声说，她的眼睛在他的侧脸上扫过。

He nodded and looked around at her, his eyes lowering to her hands in her lap. “Your wrists…” he began, trailing off inquisitively. 
他点点头，环顾四周，目光垂向她放在膝盖上的双手。“你的手腕......”他开始说话，好奇地慢慢走开。

Hermione followed his gaze and, assuming he was attempting to ask how she was after their misadventure in the library, rolled them gently before lifting one so that he could see it. 
赫敏顺着他的目光看去，以为他是想问她在图书馆的不幸之后过得怎么样，轻轻地滚动了一下，然后举起了一个，让他能看到。

“They’re fine,” she said, smiling at him. “I promise.”
“他们没事，”她对他微笑着说。“我保证。”

Though she’d moved away, Hermione could still somehow feel his leg against hers. He didn’t say anything more, simply looking at her narrow wrists with a faint frown between his brows as though he was considering reaching out to inspect them for himself. 
虽然她已经走开了，赫敏仍然能感觉到他的腿抵在她的腿上。他没有再说什么，只是看着她狭窄的手腕，眉间微微皱起眉头，仿佛在考虑伸手亲自检查它们。

Instinctively, Hermione’s attention was drawn to his hands atop the photo album and she found herself wondering, if she did offer her wrists up for his inspection, how gentle he would be. How gentle a man like him was capable of being. 
本能地，赫敏的注意力被相册上的他的手吸引了，她发现自己在想，如果她真的把手腕伸出来让他检查，他会有多温柔。像他这样的人，竟然能表现得多么温柔啊。

Rather than find out, Hermione averted her eyes uncomfortably, tucking her hair behind her ear just to occupy her hands.
赫敏没有发现，而是不自在地移开了她的眼睛，把头发塞到耳后，只是为了占据她的手。

The moment passed and, quietly, Lucius rose to his feet, the album in his grip. Hermione turned in her seat, arm leaning on the back of the sofa, to watch him as he took it to his desk and deposited it on the surface. 
这一刻过去了，Lucius 悄悄地站了起来，手里拿着相册。赫敏在座位上转过身来，胳膊靠在沙发靠背上，看着他把它带到书桌上，放在桌面上。

"I don't have any more recent albums for you, I'm afraid,” he said. “Narcissa was more interested in those things and she took ours with her."
“恐怕我没有更多最近的专辑给你了，”他说。“纳西莎对那些东西更感兴趣，她把我们的东西都带走了。”

"Do you think she'd send them if you asked her?"
“如果你问她，你觉得她会送他们来吗？”

"I doubt it; the divorce has been finalised. She need not have anything to do with me anymore and I mean no offence, Miss Granger, when I say she’d certainly want nothing to do with you." 
“我怀疑;离婚已经敲定。她不需要再跟我有任何关系了，我没有冒犯的意思，格兰杰小姐，我说她肯定不想和你有任何关系。

Hermione didn't miss the bitterness in his voice even if he managed to keep it off his face. "Are you angry that she left?"
赫敏并没有错过他声音中的苦涩，即使他设法把它从他的脸上压住了。“你对她的离开感到生气吗？”

“I sent her away, Miss Granger,” he said, leaning his knuckles on his desk. “Society here was unkind to her and I didn’t want her to waste the best years of her life and her freedom roaming the halls of the manor when she didn’t have to.”
“我把她送走了，格兰杰小姐，”他说，一边把指关节靠在桌子上。“这里的社会对她不友善，我不希望她浪费她生命中最美好的岁月和自由，在她不需要的时候在庄园的大厅里漫游。”

Frowning, Hermione tilted her head. “It surprises me that after everything she would have left Draco behind.”
赫敏皱着眉头歪了歪头。“我很惊讶，毕竟她会留下德拉科。”

“He wouldn’t go,” Lucius replied, a bite of frustration in his voice. “No matter how much we tried to make him. She still writes, I believe. Badgering him. He is, however, a grown man free to make his own decisions. These days I owe it to him to let him, regardless of how questionable I believe them to be.”
“他不会去的，”卢修斯回答，声音里带着一丝沮丧。“无论我们多么努力地塑造他。我相信她仍然在写作。缠着他。然而，他是一个可以自由做出自己决定的成年人。这些天来，我欠他让他走的，不管我认为他们有多么可疑。

Eyes flicking over Lucius’ irate face, Hermione bit her tongue. Obviously Draco thought his father needed him more than his mother. She didn’t think he was wrong.
赫敏的眼睛在卢修斯愤怒的脸上扫过，咬住了她的舌头。显然，德拉科认为他的父亲比他的母亲更需要他。她不认为他错了。

“Just say what you want to say, Miss Granger.”
“就说你想说的话吧，格兰杰小姐。”

Hermione blinked, her mouth opening for a second before she snapped her teeth together and shook her head. “I don’t want to say anything.”
赫敏眨了眨眼，张大了嘴巴一秒钟，然后她咬紧牙关，摇了摇头。“我什么都不想说。”

“The expression on your face says otherwise,” Lucius replied. “I’m afraid all the time you spend with books has made you rather easy to read. Say it.”
“你脸上的表情说明不是这样，”卢修斯回答。“恐怕你花在书上的时间都使你变得相当容易阅读。说出来。

Hermione rubbed her finger over the soft leather of the back of the sofa, not meeting Malfoy’s eyes as she said,  “It seems to bother you that she left even though you told her to. Is that really fair?”
赫敏用手指在沙发靠背柔软的皮革上摩擦，没有与马尔福的眼睛对视，她说道，“你告诉她，她还是走了，这似乎让你很困扰。这真的公平吗？

“It didn’t bother me that she left,” he said with a sharp, defensive edge to his voice. “It bothered me that she never seemed to miss me enough to want to come back."
“她走了我并不在意，”他的声音里带着尖锐的、防御的锋芒。“让我感到困扰的是，她似乎从来没有想念过我，以至于想回来。”

Hermione didn’t know what to say to that and, when she glanced up, she thought Malfoy looked like he wished he’d never said it in the first place. 
赫敏不知道该说什么，当她抬起头时，她觉得马尔福看起来就像他希望他一开始就没有说过这句话。

Part of Hermione thought that Malfoy had maybe got what he wanted in his wife’s leaving. Or what he thought he wanted. Draco had told her that he’d been closed off, barely speaking to him and Astoria. Putting together the pieces, it sounded like Lucius Malfoy had pushed his wife away until eventually she’d stopped pushing back and just allowed him to shove her out of his life entirely. Perhaps she resented him for doing it. Perhaps he resented her for letting him. But saying that aloud was out of the question. At the same time, offering comforting but meaningless platitudes did not seem like the kind of thing he would want either. 
赫敏的一部分认为马尔福也许在他妻子的离开中得到了他想要的东西。或者他认为他想要什么。德拉科告诉她，他一直被封闭起来，几乎不和他和阿斯托利亚说话。把这些碎片拼凑起来，听起来卢修斯·马尔福把他的妻子推开了，直到最后她才停止反抗，只是让他把她完全赶出自己的生活。也许她怨恨他这样做。也许他怨恨她让他。但大声说出来是不可能的。与此同时，提供安慰但毫无意义的陈词滥调似乎也不是他想要的那种东西。

"It’s not particularly pleasant to feel unwanted," he said with a calm detachment that made Hermione think he could have been observing an odd turn in the weather. A turn in the weather, however, would not have made Hermione’s heart skip a beat the way his disarmingly honest admission had.
“感觉不受欢迎并不是特别令人愉快，”他以一种平静的超然态度说，这让赫敏觉得他可能一直在观察天气的奇怪变化。然而，天气的转变并不会像他坦率的承认那样让赫敏的心跳加速。

Keen to inject a bit of levity into their afternoon, Hermione crossed her arms in a show of faux irritation. “Well, don’t think you’re going to get any sympathy from me on that front.” 
赫敏热衷于为他们的下午注入一点轻松，她交叉双臂，假装生气。“嗯，别以为你在这方面会从我这里得到任何同情。”

Lucius raised his eyes to hers and blinked once as though surprised she’d heard what he’d said. “Have you ever had your face slapped on a poster that says 'Undesirable' in huge letters?” she asked, eyebrows raised. “And then discovered that you’re not even number one ?” 
卢修斯抬起眼睛看着她，眨了眨眼，似乎很惊讶她听到了他说的话。“你有没有被一张用大字写着'不受欢迎'的海报打脸？”她扬起眉毛问道。“然后发现你甚至不是第一名？”

His face warmed into a smile as he cottoned on. That softness again, Hermione noted with a swoop low in her stomach. If she wasn’t mistaken, it was growing more frequent.
他的脸上暖和地笑了起来。又是那种柔软，赫敏在她的肚子上猛地一跳。如果她没记错的话，这种情况越来越频繁。

“Touché.” Lowering his tone as though asking her a daring question, he added, “Tell me, did being Undesirable Number Two make you more Undesirable than Potter or less Undesirable?”
“Touché。”他压低了语气，仿佛在问她一个大胆的问题，然后补充道，“告诉我，作为不受欢迎的二号人物，是你比波特更不受欢迎，还是不那么不受欢迎？

“Good question,” Hermione replied, rising to her feet and lifting her finger to her chin in a mocking imitation of pondering. “I mean, if Harry was Undesirable Number One then he was, by all rights, the most undesirable.” Lucius nodded. “But, then,” Hermione continued, walking around the sofa towards his desk with her hands clasped behind her back, “as Undesirable Number Two then surely I was a less desirable undesirable and, by extension, more undesirable overall.”
“好问题，”赫敏回答，站起来，把手指举到下巴上，嘲弄地模仿着沉思。“我的意思是，如果哈利是不受欢迎的一号人物，那么他就是，按理说，他就是最不受欢迎的。”卢修斯点点头。“但是，那么，”赫敏继续说，双手紧握在背后，绕过沙发走向他的书桌，“作为不受欢迎的二号人物，我肯定是一个不那么受欢迎的不受欢迎的人，推而广之，总体上更不受欢迎。

“Perhaps we didn't think it through,” Lucius said. “Dolores Umbridge never was the sharpest quill in the drawer.”
“也许我们没有想清楚，”卢修斯说。“多洛雷斯·乌姆里奇从来都不是抽屉里最锋利的羽毛笔。”

“An understatement,” Hermione said drily. “I think Desirable posters would have been better.” She came to a stop in front of his desk, rising onto her tiptoes and lowering again. “Y’know, ‘Hermione Granger: Desirable’. Much more palatable.” 
“轻描淡写，”赫敏冷淡地说。“我认为 Desirable posters 会更好。”她在他的书桌前停了下来，踮起脚尖，又放下了脚步。“你知道的，'赫敏·格兰杰：令人向往'。更可口。

She nodded authoritatively and smiled at Malfoy who, this time, barely lifted his lips in return, his face tight. Perhaps she’d overstayed her welcome. “Anyway, I'll get back to work. Thanks, Mr Malfoy.”
她权威地点了点头，对马尔福微笑，而马尔福这一次，几乎没有抬起嘴唇作为回应，他的脸紧绷着。也许她逾期了。“不管怎样，我会回去工作。谢谢你，马尔福先生。

Hermione left the room with a wave and Lucius listened to her footsteps travel back along the corridor, his fingers dancing an unsettled pattern along his leg that had been pressed against hers.
赫敏挥手离开了房间，卢修斯听着她的脚步声沿着走廊往回走，他的手指在压在她腿上的腿上跳动着不安的图案。

Chapter 20
第 20 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione has a discussion with Kingsley and Lucius has a discussion with...well, himself
赫敏与金斯莱进行了讨论，卢修斯与......嗯，他自己

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾June 18th
6月18日

The summer punch was alarmingly pink and toe-curlingly strong and Hermione knew that it was entirely down to Ginny. During the latter weeks of her first pregnancy, Ginny had opted to drink vicariously and clearly that was happening again.
夏日的潘趣酒是令人震惊的粉红色，脚趾卷曲得非常结实，赫敏知道这完全是金妮的功劳。在她第一次怀孕的最后几周，金妮选择间接饮酒，很明显这种情况又发生了。

"Watch yourself," Hermione said to Ron handing him a cup, "it's—" Ron choked and dribbled some of the liquid down his chin while spraying Hermione's face with more. "Strong," she finished, wiping her cheek. 
“小心点，”赫敏对递给他杯子的罗恩说，“这是——”罗恩哽咽着，把一些液体滴到他的下巴上，同时又喷了赫敏的脸。“强壮，”她说完，擦了擦脸颊。

"There must be a bottle of vodka in this cup alone," Ron rasped, holding it under his nose for a smell test. 
“光是这个杯子里肯定有一瓶伏特加，”罗恩嘶哑地说，把它放在鼻子下试了试气味。

"Well, it's a baby shower. What do you expect?" Hermione asked drily, taking a far more careful sip through tightly pursed lips.
“嗯，这是个婴儿送礼会。你期待什么？赫敏干巴巴地问道，通过紧闭的嘴唇更小心地啜了一口。

They'd all gathered at the Burrow for Ginny's baby shower—a summer barbecue in the garden. There were faces milling around that Hermione hadn't seen in months but, growing exhausted by the repetitive small talk, she’d gravitated towards Ron because interactions with him and Harry never felt forced. 
他们都聚集在陋居参加金妮的婴儿送礼会——在花园里进行夏日烧烤。赫敏已经好几个月没见过一些面孔了，但是，由于重复的闲聊，她越来越疲惫不堪，她被罗恩所吸引，因为与他和哈利的互动从来没有感觉是被迫的。

"Is Hannah coming?"
“汉娜来了吗？”

"Yeah." Ron looked at his watch. "Should arrive any time. She was up visiting Neville yesterday and she stayed in Hogsmeade overnight. Said she felt bad that she kept missing our drinks nights with him."
“是的。”罗恩看了看手表。“应该随时到。她昨天去看望纳威，在霍格莫德住了一夜。她说她一直想念我们和他的酒会之夜，这让她感到很遗憾。

Hermione nodded, taking a sip of her punch through pursed lips and wondering if Neville’s being at Hogwarts—the school where a certain matron post was still being advertised—also had something to do with Hannah's visit. It felt more sensible not to comment and Hermione was grateful she’d not yet had enough punch to dull her instincts in that area.
赫敏点点头，抿着嘴唇啜了一口她的潘趣酒，心想纳威在霍格沃茨——那所学校还在发布某个校长职位的公告——是否也与汉娜的来访有关。不发表评论感觉更明智，赫敏很庆幸她还没有得到足够的冲击来削弱她在这方面的直觉。

“I mean, I tried to tell her that term ends next week and she’ll see him then but she—”
“我是说，我试着告诉她，这个学期下周结束，她那时会见到他，但她——”

“Hermione, Hermione, Hermione.”
“赫敏，赫敏，赫敏。”

The voice of George Weasley drifted over from their left and both Ron and Hermione turned to see him leaning against a nearby tree, shaking his head in disappointment. 
乔治·韦斯莱的声音从他们的左边飘过来，罗恩和赫敏都转过身来，看到他靠在附近的一棵树上，失望地摇了摇头。

“What?” Hermione asked, her eyes narrowing. 
“什么？”赫敏眯起眼睛问道。

“I heard from a little birdie called Ronnie that you've been using the Weasley’s Wizard Wheezebox to record Malfoys.” Hermione internally groaned and threw a glare in Ron’s direction but he was looking up at the paper chains in the tree above George as though they had asked him a very thought-provoking question. “Why must you use my creation for evil?”
“我从一个叫罗尼的小鸟那里听说，你一直在用韦斯莱的巫师喘息器来记录马尔福。”赫敏在心里呻吟着，瞪了罗恩一眼，但他正抬头看着乔治头顶树上的纸链，仿佛它们问了他一个非常发人深省的问题。“为什么你必须用我的创造来作恶？”

“Oh stuff it, George,” Hermione said sniffily. “I heard that mixtape you made Angelina; they were used for evil from the off.”
“哦，塞进去吧，乔治，”赫敏轻蔑地说。“我听说你做的那张混音带 Angelina;他们从一开始就被用来作恶。

George looked at Ron disbelievingly and held a hand up to his chest, choking out a gasp. “Clearly they're rubbing off on you, Hermione.” Ron shot George a sharp look of disgusted warning but he ignored it. “That was mean .”
乔治难以置信地看着罗恩，将一只手举到他的胸前，哽咽着喘息。“显然他们在蹭你，赫敏。”罗恩用厌恶的警告狠狠地瞪了乔治一眼，但他没有理会。“那太刻薄了。”

In her best imitation of Lucius Malfoy, Hermione raised her chin and looked down her nose at George. “And I can get meaner so watch it, Weasley.”
赫敏最好地模仿卢修斯·马尔福，抬起下巴，低头看着乔治。“而且我可能会变得更刻薄，所以看着它，韦斯莱。”

“Uncanny,” George whispered in fascinated horror. “Next you’ll be bleaching your hair and calling us all Blood Traitors.”
“不可思议，”乔治惊恐地低声说。“接下来你要漂白头发，然后叫我们都是血腥叛徒。”

“Oh, ha ha,” Hermione said with a roll of her eyes. She’d tried to play along but the feeling of exhaustion was sneaking back in—making fun of the Malfoys wasn’t quite as enjoyable as it had been in the past. “Burgers?” she asked, pointing in the direction of the grill and surrounding tables.
“哦，哈哈，”赫敏翻了个白眼说。她试着跟着玩，但疲惫的感觉又悄悄地溜进来了——取笑马尔福一家已经不像过去那样愉快了。“汉堡？” 她问道，指着烤架和周围桌子的方向。

“Ah, Hermione,” George said, with a pitying shake of his head, “a Malfoy would never eat a burger. Everyone knows they only consume souls. You’ve spoiled the illusion.”
“啊，赫敏，”乔治可怜地摇摇头说，“马尔福永远不会吃汉堡。每个人都知道他们只消耗灵魂。你破坏了这种幻觉。

Hermione laughed a little too heartily and turned away, her smile slowly fading from her face as she approached the food. It felt like a good time to sit alone for a while. Taking a burger and another punch, she slipped out of the crowd and found a quiet table under a tree where she'd be able to eat undisturbed. 
赫敏笑得有点太爽朗了，转过身去，当她走近食物时，她的笑容慢慢地从她的脸上消失了。感觉是独自坐一会儿的好时机。她吃了一个汉堡，又喝了一拳，从人群中溜了出来，在一棵树下找到一张安静的桌子，在那里她可以不受打扰地吃饭。

As she tucked into her meal, Hermione scanned the party crowd, spying various familiar faces. Lee Jordan was desperately trying to extricate himself from an intense conversation with Percy Weasley; Arthur and Molly Weasley were welcoming a gift-bearing Kingsley to the party with wide smiles and open arms; Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnegan were huddled together and giggling about something, approximately ten cups of punch littering the table between them.
当她大口吃东西时，赫敏扫视着派对的人群，窥视着各种熟悉的面孔。李·乔丹拼命想从与珀西·韦斯莱的激烈谈话中解脱出来;亚瑟和莫丽·韦斯莱带着灿烂的笑容和张开的双臂欢迎带着礼物的金斯莱参加派对;Dean Thomas 和 Seamus Finnegan 挤在一起，咯咯地笑着说着什么，他们之间的桌子上散落着大约十杯潘趣酒。

Hermione's eyes landed on Ron and she saw that Hannah had arrived. Except Ron didn't look pleased at all. They were gathered under a tree that was distant from the party and therefore not too far from Hermione. Though Hannah’s back was to her, Hermione could see Ron was speaking in an angry undertone, his ears growing pink in a way that had nothing to do with all the time he’d spent in the afternoon sun. 
赫敏的目光落在罗恩身上，她看到汉娜已经到了。只是罗恩看起来一点也不高兴。他们聚集在一棵树下，这棵树离派对很远，因此离赫敏不太远。虽然汉娜背对着她，但赫敏能看到罗恩在用愤怒的语气说话，他的耳朵变得粉红色，这与他在午后阳光下度过的所有时间无关。

Sighing, Hermione tore her eyes away from them. For one thing, it was obviously personal and she ought not to pry. For another, it wouldn’t look great to be caught dissecting her ex-boyfriend's arguments with his current girlfriend. It might give the wrong impression.
赫敏叹了口气，把目光从他们身上移开。首先，这显然是私人的，她不应该窥探。另一方面，如果被发现剖析前男友与现任女友的争论，那看起来就不是一件好事了。它可能会给人留下错误的印象。

Hermione had finished her burger and was just about through with her punch when Harry slid into the seat next to her with a fresh cup. “Just call me Trelawney,” he said, peering into the almost-empty cup in her hand before pushing the new one towards her.
赫敏吃完了她的汉堡，正要打完她的一拳，哈利就拿着一个新鲜的杯子滑到她旁边的座位上。“叫我特里劳尼就好了，”他说，瞥了一眼她手里几乎空的杯子，然后把新杯子推向她。

"Oh, Harry, I really don't think I should have any more of this." Hermione lifted a hand to her mouth as a distinctly punch-flavoured burp rose in her throat.
“哦，哈利，我真的觉得我不应该再有这些了。”赫敏抬起一只手捂住嘴巴，喉咙里发出一声明显的潘趣味的打嗝。

"Go on, Hermione,” Harry said bracingly. “You know Ginny will be gutted if at least one person hasn't puked in a bush by the end of the night. It’s her baby shower!"
“继续说，赫敏，”哈利振作起来。“你知道，如果到晚上结束时至少有一个人没有在灌木丛里呕吐，金妮会很伤心的。这是她的迎婴派对！

“I hope it's you,” Hermione said, taking the cup with a dark glare at her friend.
“我希望是你，”赫敏说，接过杯子，阴暗地瞪着她的朋友。

“Well, I'm on my fifth,” Harry responded, raising his cup in a ‘cheers’ salute, “so it probably will be.”
“嗯，我已经第五次了，”哈利回答，举起杯子“干杯”敬礼，“所以可能会这样。

“I take it you saw Ron and Hannah?” Hermione asked in an undertone. 
“我猜你看到了罗恩和汉娜吗？”赫敏低声问道。

“Yeah. It was kind of hard to miss it after a while,” Harry said, looking solemn. “But I pretended I did miss it, which is the important thing.”
“是的。过了一会儿，我很难错过它，“哈利说，看起来很严肃。“但我假装我确实错过了它，这才是重要的事情。”

“Do you think we should say something to him?” Hermione asked, though she was at a loss for what they actually could say.
“你觉得我们应该对他说点什么吗？”赫敏问道，尽管她不知道他们到底能说什么。

“And say what?” Harry asked, reflecting her thoughts back at her. “He’ll figure it out.” Hermione gave Harry a doubtful look and he laughed. “Or it’ll work itself out. For better or worse.”
“然后说什么？”哈利问道，把她的想法回想起来。“他会想办法的。”赫敏疑惑地看了哈利一眼，哈利笑了起来。“或者它会自行解决。无论好坏。

Glancing in the direction of a sullen Ron and seeing Hannah was nowhere in sight, Hermione felt less sure.
赫敏看了一眼闷闷不乐的罗恩的方向，看到汉娜不见了，赫敏觉得不太确定了。

“It's best not to get overly involved in each other's relationships, Hermione,” Harry said, following her gaze. “I tried to keep out of it when it was you and Ron.” 
“最好不要过度参与彼此的关系，赫敏，”哈利顺着她的目光说。“我试图避开只有你和罗恩的时候。”

It was true, Hermione thought. Even when she and Ron had been at their worst in the last six months of their relationship, Harry had been there for her without meddling or proffering any kind of unhelpful opinion. It had actually been…comforting in some ways. In their early school years, he’d tended to side with Ron during their arguments but as they’d grown and their dynamic had grown more complex, Hermione had noticed a change in Harry. It’d made her less worried about losing Harry’s friendship in the event of a break-up and, sure enough, they’d all gotten through it. It had all worked out.
这是真的，赫敏想。即使在她和罗恩的最后六个月里，他们处于最糟糕的状态时，哈利也一直在她身边，没有插手或提出任何无益的意见。它实际上是......在某些方面令人欣慰。在他们上学的早期，他倾向于在他们争吵时站在罗恩一边，但随着他们的成长和他们的动态变得更加复杂，赫敏注意到哈利的变化。这让她不那么担心在分手时失去哈利的友谊，果然，他们都度过了难关。一切都成功了。

“I knew there were parts of your relationship that I'd never understand or see,” Harry explained. “It didn’t feel right to offer a comment on it. So I figured I should just be there for you, not judge you, and not pretend I knew your relationship better than you did just because I was looking at it from the outside. With Hannah, we'll just be his friends and he'll come to us about it when he needs us.”
“我知道你们关系中有些部分我永远不会理解或看到，”哈利解释道。“对此发表评论感觉不对。所以我想我应该在你身边，而不是评判你，也不应该因为我是从外面看的，就假装我比你更了解你的关系。和 Hannah 在一起，我们就是他的朋友，当他需要我们时，他会来找我们。

“You're a wise man, Harry Potter,” Hermione said, sighing and tipping her head back. 
“你是个聪明人，哈利·波特，”赫敏说，叹了口气，把头向后仰。

“A wise man wouldn’t have given Ginny full control over the decor,” Harry replied, his eyes following the path of a group of mischief-making golden cherubs as they stole cherries from the cake, stuffing their tiny glowing faces. “That's a choking incident waiting to happen,” he sighed. Sure enough, within a minute, one cherub had a hold of another and was performing the heimlich manoeuvre.
“一个聪明人不会让金妮完全控制装饰，”哈利回答，他的眼睛跟着一群恶作剧的金色小天使的轨迹，他们从蛋糕里偷走樱桃，塞满了他们发光的小脸。“那是一场等待发生的令人窒息的事件，”他叹息道。果然，在一分钟内，一个小天使抓住了另一个小天使，并正在进行海姆立克急救法。

“How goes it with the Malfoys?” Harry asked distractedly, eyes still fixed on his decorations to make sure they wouldn’t choke to death. Obviously the deposit had been sizeable.
“马尔福家怎么样？”哈利心不在焉地问道，眼睛仍然盯着他的装饰品，确保它们不会窒息而死。显然，这笔押金是相当大的。

“It's…” Hermione shrugged and took a drink. “You know it's okay, actually. I've almost been enjoying myself recently.”
“这是......”赫敏耸耸肩，喝了一口。“你知道这没关系，其实。我最近几乎过得很愉快。

Harry’s eyebrows rose over the rim of his cup as he took a drink. “Really?” Hermione couldn’t blame him for the doubt in his voice. The last he’d heard she’d just had a storming argument with Malfoy that had almost ended their interviews.
哈利喝了一口水，眉毛从杯沿上扬起。“真的吗？”赫敏不能因为他声音中的怀疑而责怪他。他最后一次听到她刚刚和马尔福发生了一场激烈的争吵，几乎结束了他们的采访。

“Yes, it's...I don't really know how to explain it.” Hermione watched a cherub dip its head in a cup of punch and then topple off the edge of a table while its fellows cheered raucously. “I don't know if I could honestly say he's gotten a whole load nicer but he's not been quite as…” Hermione shook her head, the memory of his almost concerned gaze when they’d taken tea on the terrace burned into her brain. “Maybe I've just gotten used to him.”
“是的，这是......我真的不知道怎么解释。赫敏看着一个小天使把头浸进一杯潘趣酒里，然后从桌子的边缘摔下来，而它的伙伴们则大声欢呼。“我不知道我是否能诚实地说他变得更好了，但他并没有完全......”赫敏摇了摇头，当他们在露台上喝茶时，他几乎是关切的目光的记忆深深地烙印在她的脑海中。“也许我已经习惯了他。”

“They do say we can adapt to anything.”
“他们确实说我们可以适应任何事情。”

“Yeah...maybe,”  Hermione murmured. Adapting didn't feel like quite the right word to her but given she didn't know what did , she couldn't exactly correct him.
“是啊......也许吧，“赫敏喃喃自语。适应对她来说并不是一个完全正确的词，但鉴于她不知道什么，她无法完全纠正他。

"He showed me a photo album yesterday, actually, and there was a photo of Sirius in it. You'd have loved it, Harry; he was trying to escape the camera and I feel like even then he terrorised everyone with his pranks.”
“实际上，他昨天给我看了一本相册，里面有一张 Sirius 的照片。你会喜欢的，哈利;他试图逃避镜头，我觉得即便如此，他还是用他的恶作剧吓坏了所有人。

Harry smiled fondly into the distance. “It's weird to think of him as a kid, isn’t it?” His eyes refocused and he gave Hermione a curious look. “Not as weird as thinking of you sitting with Lucius Malfoy looking at a photo album, right enough.”
哈利深情地向远方微笑。“把他当成个孩子很奇怪，不是吗？”他的眼睛重新聚焦起来，好奇地看了赫敏一眼。“不像想到你和卢修斯·马尔福坐在一起看相册那么奇怪，就够了。”

“Yeah,” Hermione said noncommittally. Her leg felt warm with the memory of being pressed against Malfoy’s as they’d looked at the photos. The more she thought it about it, the more the heat spread through her.  Swirling her punch, she threw the last of it down her throat. “Sometimes he's not what I expected.” 
“是的，”赫敏不置可否地说。她的腿因为在他们看照片时被压在马尔福的腿上的记忆而感到温暖。她越想越觉得热度在她身上蔓延得越多。她挥舞着她的拳头，将最后一拳扔进了她的喉咙。“有时他不是我所期望的。”

“How so?”
“怎么会这样？”

“I dunno because in a lot of ways he’s exactly what I expected.” Hermione dropped her chin into her hand. “I guess it's that he…” she trailed off and looked into the distance, frustrated by her inability to organise her thoughts. Harry peered curiously at the side of her face. “He feels things that aren't just disdain and disgust. It’s...he’s…a proper person . Recently there've been moments where it's almost as if he – as if I – as if we –”
“我不知道，因为在很多方面他正是我所期望的。”赫敏把下巴放在她的手里。“我猜是他......”她慢慢地走开，望向远方，因为她无法组织自己的思绪而感到沮丧。哈利好奇地盯着她的脸侧。“他感受到的东西不仅仅是轻蔑和厌恶。它。。。他......一个合适的人。最近有些时候，他——好像我——好像我们——”

Harry’s brow was furrowed as he looked at Hermione closely. “Hermione, are you okay?”
哈利紧紧地看着赫敏，皱起了眉头。“赫敏，你还好吗？”

Hermione opened her mouth, not really even sure what she was going to say, when Kingsley appeared at Harry’s shoulder, making her close it with a snap. 
赫敏张了张嘴，甚至不确定自己要说什么，这时金斯莱出现在哈利的肩膀上，让她啪地一声合上了嘴。

“Hermione, Harry, I'm sorry to interrupt.” Kingsley’s deep voice was genuinely apologetic and he offered them a smile. “I wonder if I might have a private word with Hermione.”
“赫敏，哈利，很抱歉打扰。”金斯利低沉的声音是真诚的歉意，他向他们微笑。“我想知道我能不能和赫敏私下谈谈。”

Harry grinned and stood up to shake Kingsley's hand enthusiastically. “Of course, Minister. Always an honour to have you here.” 
哈利咧嘴一笑，站起来热情地握住了金斯莱的手。“当然，部长。有你在这里总是很荣幸。

"An excellent party, Harry,” Kingsley said warmly, “but I do feel I should warn you there's a group of rather inebriated cherubs floating alarmingly close to the grill. I got the impression a game of chicken was about to begin.”
“真是个很棒的派对，哈利，”金斯莱热情地说，“但我确实觉得我应该警告你，有一群喝得酩酊大醉的小天使在烤架附近飘来飘去。我有一种感觉，一场懦夫游戏即将开始。

Harry swore and took off at a run while Hermione chuckled. “I thought he would have learned that cherubs are the wrong choice after the coconut incident the last time.”
哈利咒骂着跑了起来，赫敏咯咯地笑了起来。“我以为他会在上次椰子事件之后明白小天使是错误的选择。”

“They put on such a good show of innocence, Hermione,” Kingsley said, lowering himself into the seat Harry had just vacated. “It can be easy to forget their transgressions.”
“他们上演了一副真心实意的样子，赫敏，”金斯莱说，把自己放到哈利刚刚空出的座位上。“忘记他们的过错很容易。”

Turning her cup with her fingers, Hermione suddenly wished she hadn’t allowed herself to drink quite so much. Even slight insobriety felt like a massive disadvantage when in a conversation with Kingsley. 
赫敏用手指转动杯子，突然希望她没有让自己喝那么多。在与 Kingsley 交谈时，即使是轻微的不清醒也感觉像是一个巨大的劣势。

“I just wanted to ask you how your most recent batch of interviews are going.”
“我只是想问你最近一批的面试进展如何。”

“Surprisingly well,” Hermione said. “I was just talking to Harry about it, actually. Lucius Malfoy has been quite communicative recently. Helpful, dare I say it.”
“出乎意料的好，”赫敏说。“实际上，我只是在和哈利谈论这件事。卢修斯·马尔福最近一直很善于交际。有帮助，我敢说。

“Is that so?”
“是这样吗？”

“And the Malfoys have provided me with a space to work. In their library.”
“马尔福家族给了我一个工作的空间。在他们的图书馆里。

Draco had offered her the space to help but he'd also hoped to impress Kingsley. Hermione thought she might as well let him do that.
德拉科给了她帮助的空间，但他也希望能给金斯莱留下深刻印象。赫敏觉得她不如让他这样做。

“I see.” Kingsley fiddled with his earring and leaned back in his chair to observe the wider garden while they talked. “Well, that is somewhat surprising to hear. Pleasing, certainly, but…do you feel safe?”
“我明白了。”金斯利摆弄着他的耳环，靠在椅子上，一边交谈一边观察着更广阔的花园。“嗯，这听起来有点令人惊讶。当然令人高兴，但是......你觉得安全吗？

His eyes slid to her and noted the way she seemingly unconsciously rubbed one wrist and then the other. They appeared fine to his eyes. She appeared fine. 
他的眼睛滑向她，注意到她似乎无意识地揉了揉一只手腕，然后又揉了揉另一只手腕。在他看来，他们看起来还不错。她看起来还不错。

"Yes." She placed her hands on the table and turned her head to meet his eyes. "I do. Have you been sounding out what I asked of you?”
“是的。”她把手放在桌子上，转过头来与他的眼睛对视。“我愿意。你有没有把我对你的要求都说出来？

Kingsley inclined his head and crossed one leg over the other. “I have and it has been an enlightening experience."
金斯莱歪着头，把一条腿交叉在另一条腿上。“我有，这是一次有启发性的经历。”

"How so?"
“怎么会这样？”

"There are some who’d see him locked up for longer, as you’d expect. Mostly Aurors.” 
“正如你所料，有些人会看到他被关得更久。主要是傲罗。

Hermione nodded. She could understand that; the Aurors had spent years of their lives chasing the glory that would come with finally taking down Lucius Malfoy and in the end he had come quietly. She wondered if he'd taken some pleasure in knowing that he'd disappointed them. He was vindictive enough for that. 
赫敏点点头。她能理解这一点;傲罗们花了好几年的时间去追逐最终打倒卢修斯·马尔福所带来的荣耀，而他最终还是悄无声息地来了。她想知道他是否因为知道自己让他们失望而感到高兴。他对此已经足够报复了。

"Harry is less opposed than most."
“哈利比大多数人都少反对。”

Hermione looked up sharply to find Kingsley already looking at her knowingly. "Harry?"
赫敏猛地抬起头，发现金斯莱已经明知故犯地看着她。“哈利？”

"Yes." Kingsley nodded. "He told me he trusted your judgement."
“是的。”金斯莱点点头。“他告诉我他相信你的判断。”

A squirm of guilt worked its way through Hermione’s stomach. She wished she'd taken the chance to tell Harry the full extent of what she'd asked of Kingsley. She knew, of course, that Ginny would have told him after it had been revealed to her but talking about it personally was preferable. That would have to be a conversation for later.
一阵愧疚感在赫敏的肚子里蔓延。她希望自己能抓住这个机会把她对金斯莱的要求全部告诉哈利。她当然知道，金妮会在她知道这件事后告诉他，但最好还是亲自谈论这件事。那得等到以后再谈。

“And there are others," Kingsley continued, "who are similarly lacking vehemence. A few of the more administrative types said they wouldn’t mind him back in the Ministry for a while if he behaved himself.” Kingsley chucked at the sight of Hermione’s barely concealed disbelief. “I confess, you look how I felt. Apparently he was quite…effective. Dealt with red tape the way he did everything else.”
“还有其他人，”金斯利继续说，“他们同样缺乏热情。一些更行政的人说，如果他表现得好的话，他们不会介意他回到魔法部一段时间。金斯莱看到赫敏几乎无法掩饰的怀疑，咯咯笑了起来。“我承认，你看看我的感受。显然他相当......有效。处理繁文缛节的方式就像他处理其他所有事情一样。

“Like it was beneath him?”
“就像在他下面一样？”

“Precisely.”
“正是。”

“Figures,” Hermione murmured but there was a warmth in her voice that drew Kingsley’s eyes to her, his brow twitching upwards with interest.
“数字，”赫敏喃喃自语，但她的声音里有一种温暖，把金斯莱的目光吸引到她身上，他的眉头饶有兴趣地向上抽搐。

“Suffice it to say, I think I may be able to do something along the lines of what you asked me to do."
“我只想说，我想我也许能按照你的要求做点什么。”

"Thank you, Kingsley," Hermione said, her voice heavy with relief. Malfoy had been helpful to her and if she could she intended to fulfil her side of the bargain. It only felt right.
“谢谢你，金斯莱，”赫敏说，她的声音里带着沉重的宽慰。马尔福对她很有帮助，如果可以的话，她打算履行她的协议。只是感觉对。

"Though I wonder..." Kingsley lowered his hand from his ear and tapped his fingers on the table. "He appears to be helping you anyway. Perhaps we don't have to—"
“虽然我想知道......”金斯莱把手从耳边放下来，用手指敲了敲桌子。“无论如何，他似乎都在帮助你。或许我们不必——”

"No." Hermione shook her head. "You sound like Ginny. No, I’ll stick to my word, Kingsley. If I can.
“不。”赫敏摇摇头。“你听起来像金妮。不，我信守诺言，金斯利。如果可以的话。

He nodded, looking neither approving or disapproving; simply like he was noting her choice and filing it away for later consideration. 
他点点头，看起来既不赞成也不不赞同;就像他注意到她的选择并将其归档以备后用。

"Very well. I’ll keep you up to date on my progress but I think I can manage some years off the sentence. Perhaps the removal of the Magic Dampener. I intend to submit a recommendation to the Wizengamot.” Hermione nodded. That made sense to her—Kingsley wasn’t the type to wield his power without showing due deference to the Wizengamot. “But I have decided I will not do it alone, Hermione."
“很好。我会让你了解我的最新进展，但我认为我可以在刑期结束后度过几年。也许是移除了 Magic Dampener。我打算向威森加摩提交一份建议。赫敏点点头。这对她来说是有道理的——金斯莱不是那种在不对威森加摩表现出应有的尊重的情况下行使权力的人。“但我已经决定不一个人做这件事了，赫敏。”

She looked around at him and he inclined his head towards her. "It will not do for me to simply do as you asked. If you want it to happen, you will have to be willing to advocate for him alongside me. Your reputation carries weight and you’re the one that’s been spending time with him. If you’ll put your name to the request, I think we could frame what you're doing as a voluntary rehabilitation exercise of sorts."
她环顾四周，他把头歪向她。“我不能简单地按照你的要求去做。如果你想让它发生，你必须愿意和我一起为他辩护。你的声誉很重要，你是一直与他共度时光的人。如果你愿意在请求中写上你的名字，我想我们可以把你正在做的事情定性为某种自愿的康复活动。

“I…” Twisting her fingers together, Hermione considered the strange prospect of putting her name to something in defence of Lucius Malfoy. "...yes, I’ll do that. I can do that."
“我......”赫敏扭动着手指，思考着把她的名字写在为卢修斯·马尔福辩护的事情上是多么奇怪的前景。"...是的，我会这样做。我能做到。

"It might make you quite unpopular with those who wouldn’t see him given an inch," Kingsley pointed out, though not unkindly. 
“这可能会让你在那些不愿意看到他让步的人中很不受欢迎，”金斯利指出，虽然不是不客气的。

"I've never been all that fussed about popularity,” Hermione said with more certainty. “Not in the Ministry or anywhere else."
“我从来没有对受欢迎程度那么大惊小怪，”赫敏更加肯定地说。“不在魔法部或其他任何地方。”

A small smile played about Kingsley's lips. "I have noticed that. Speaking of which, I wish to talk to you about what you intend to do after your current work is complete."
金斯莱的嘴角浮现出一丝微笑。“我注意到了。说到这里，我想和你谈谈你现在的工作完成后打算做什么。

A chorus of grumbling started in Hermione's head. Talking about the Ministry was not something she wanted to do with so much alcohol in her system; she might be overly honest.
赫敏的脑海里开始一阵抱怨。谈论魔法部并不是她想做的事情，因为她的身体里有这么多酒;她可能过于诚实。

"You told me you would consider returning to the Ministry. I would like you to join the Department of Magical Law Enforcement when you do."
“你说过你会考虑回到魔法部。我希望你加入魔法执法部。

Hermione immediately lost interest in the spectacle of Seamus vomiting in a rose bush and turned to Kingsley, her eyes alight with curiosity. 
赫敏立刻对西莫斯在玫瑰丛中呕吐的景象失去了兴趣，转向金斯莱，她的眼睛里闪耀着好奇的光芒。

"An approaching retirement means that a Deputy Head position is due to become available in the next couple of years," he continued, "and I would have you in a position to take it. I have a specialised project in the department that would stand you in good stead for that."
“即将退休意味着未来几年将有一个副校长职位，”他继续说道，“我希望你能接手这个职位。我在系里有一个专门的项目，可以帮你做这个。

"Kingsley—"
“金斯利——”

"Don’t give me an answer yet, Hermione." He shook his head and folded one hand over the other on the table with a contended air. "Just consider it. I realise you had great ambitions for your time in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures but it was never the right place for you after the war."
“先别给我答案，赫敏。”他摇摇头，一只手放在桌子上的另一只手上，神情紧张。“想想看。我知道你在魔法生物监管和控制部的那段时间里有很大的抱负，但战后它从来都不是适合你的地方。

"That’s hardly fair."
“这不太公平。”

"You really think so? Are you telling me you didn’t feel under-utilised and under-appreciated? Unsatisfied?"
“你真的这么认为吗？你是在告诉我你没有觉得自己没有得到充分利用和低估吗？不满意吗？

Hermione frowned. It hadn't been that she hadn't wanted to protect magical creatures, it had been that everyone else had made it so hard to do so. "That wasn’t the department’s fault, or the creatures. That was everyone who—"
赫敏皱起眉头。并不是她不想保护魔法生物，而是其他人都让这件事变得如此困难。“那不是部门的错，也不是生物的错。那是每一个人——”

"There's nothing wrong with desiring a bit of glory and recognition, Hermione. You've worked hard and done great things from a young age. I should have realised you’d find the Ministry a tad stultifying after a while. It does move at a far slower pace than what you'd become used to and Magical Creatures is a somewhat…undersung department, to put it kindly."
“渴望一点荣耀和认可并没有错，赫敏。你从小就努力工作，做了很多伟大的事情。我应该意识到你过一会儿会觉得魔法部有点愚蠢。它的速度确实比你习惯的要慢得多，而且 Magical Creatures 有点......低调的部门。

Spluttering, Hermione turned her body fully in her seat to face Kingsley. "I do not want glory. I just want to do what's right, Kingsley. To make things better."
赫敏咕噜咕噜地把身体完全转到座位上，面对着金斯莱。“我不想要荣耀。我只想做正确的事，金斯利。让事情变得更好。

Kingsley nodded with a small smile. "I know. But even you must admit that in your time at the Ministry, you always valued your own actions and enterprises a good deal more than everyone else. That grew to grate on you. And that is fine ," he added, seeing her growing ire.
金斯莱点点头，微微一笑。“我知道。但即使是你也必须承认，在你担任魔法部期间，你总是比其他人更重视自己的行为和事业。这让你越来越生气。这很好，“他看到她越来越生气，又说。

"Why do you think I'll suddenly find my place in Magical Law Enforcement then? Got a role as a glory-hogger going? I'm more than qualified to be one of those, apparently."
“那你为什么觉得我会突然在魔法执法中找到自己的位置呢？”想要扮演一个夺冠者的角色吗？显然，我完全有资格成为其中之一。

"I would have you turn your skills to our pro Pure-blood laws," Kingsley said lightly, soaring over her aggravated petulance with ease. "I want you to research them and re-work them, or find ways to overturn them. We will have a fair society, Hermione, and you will help make that happen. If that’s what you want."
“我会让你把你的技能转向我们支持纯血法的，”金斯莱轻描淡写地说，轻松地在她加重的任性中翱翔。“我希望你研究它们并重新加工它们，或者想办法推翻它们。我们会有一个公平的社会，赫敏，你会帮助实现这个目标。如果那是你想要的。

Hermione’s heart raced down into her stomach, where it met with a puddle of regret over her snippy outburst. She'd been learning to keep her temper around Lucius Malfoy and she wondered if she should channel that into more areas of her life. Because she did want what Kingsley was offering. Didn’t she? It was exactly the kind of task she’d hoped would land in her in-tray when she’d been working at the Ministry; valuable and game-changing.
赫敏的心跳加速地跳到她的胃里，在那里，她对自己的尖酸刻薄的爆发感到一阵遗憾。她一直在学习在卢修斯·马尔福身边保持自己的脾气，她想知道她是否应该将这种情绪引导到她生活的更多领域。因为她确实想要金斯利提供的东西。不是吗？这正是她在魔法部工作时希望能落在她眼前的任务;有价值且改变游戏规则。

"That's...interesting," Hermione said, smoothing her dress in an attempt to look more sober and professional. "Why are you deciding on this course of action now?"
“那是......有趣，“赫敏说，抚平她的裙子，试图看起来更清醒和专业。“你为什么现在决定采取这种行动？”

"Our conversation reminded me that sometimes the past cannot simply be brushed away." He gave Hermione a warm look. "There is, for instance, no point in trying to build a better and fairer wizarding world if we're building on uneven, rotting foundations. We must unpick some of the things that set us on the wrong path in the first place and those laws are a part of that. They hardly give the right impression, do they?"
“我们的谈话提醒我，有时不能简单地抹去过去。”他温暖地看了赫敏一眼。“例如，如果我们建立在不平坦、腐烂的基础上，那么试图建立一个更好、更公平的魔法世界是没有意义的。我们必须首先挑出一些让我们走上错误道路的事情，这些法律是其中的一部分。他们很难给人留下正确的印象，对吧？

“And what’s the right impression?”
“那么正确的印象是什么？”

“That every witch and wizard is made equal, regardless of blood status”
“每个女巫和巫师都是平等的，无论血统如何”

Hermione was silent, considering the tremendous value that overturning those laws would have. To think, she could help with that.
赫敏沉默了，考虑到推翻那些法律会带来的巨大价值。想想看，她可以帮忙。

"As I said: you have time to decide. Enjoy the rest of the party, Hermione."
“正如我所说：你有时间决定。享受派对的其余部分吧，赫敏。

Kingsley slid out of his chair and onto his feet, settling a gentle hand on Hermione's shoulder before making his way back into the thick of the party.
金斯莱从椅子上滑了下来，站了起来，温柔地把手放在赫敏的肩膀上，然后又回到了人群中。

It was just past midnight when Lucius wandered into the library. Part of him was relieved to see that Granger was neither sitting nor sleeping at her desk and he took a large swig from his firewhiskey to silence the part of him that wasn't. 
午夜刚过，卢修斯走进了图书馆。看到格兰杰既没有坐在也没有睡在她的书桌前，他的一部分松了一口气，他从他的火威士忌中喝了一大口，以平息他没有的那一部分。

His steps faintly echoed in the silence as he approached the desk and set his glass down with a muted clunk in one of the few free spaces. Surveying the desk, he spied the note he had written for her and picked it up.
他的脚步声在寂静中隐约回荡，他走近书桌，在为数不多的空位之一放下酒杯，发出柔和的咔哒声。他打量着桌子，发现了他为她写的纸条，然后拿起了它。

The library is now safe for unbearably nosy wanderers .
图书馆现在对爱管闲事的流浪者来说是安全的。

He had written the note with a semi-teasing tone and wondered if she had read it in that spirit. He imagined her standing just where he was, that little knowing smile on her face. The one that she used to communicate her lack of offence when he was being prickly. He didn't know when she'd started using it and he didn't know when he'd started noticing it.
他用半调侃的语气写下了这张纸条，想知道她是不是本着那种精神读了这封信。他想象着她站在他所在的地方，脸上露出那微微的会心的笑容。她用来在他被刺痛时表达她没有冒犯的那个。他不知道她是什么时候开始使用的，他也不知道自己是什么时候开始注意到的。

Exhaling sharply, Lucius crushed the note in his fist and threw it over the desk and into the fire. The low flames licked at it slowly, burning it up from the edges, while he stared, transfixed. 
卢修斯猛地呼出一口气，用拳头捏碎了那张纸条，把它扔在桌子上，扔进了火里。低沉的火焰慢慢地舔舐着它，从边缘把它烧掉，而他则目瞪口呆地盯着。

Granger was becoming a problem. More of a problem. A different kind of problem than she had been. Perpetually evolving in his life in the least convenient ways, like rising damp. He was beginning to find himself enjoying her company and that was...unexpected. She was unexpected. 
格兰杰正在成为一个问题。更多的问题是。一个与她以前不同的问题。在他的生活中不断以最不方便的方式发展，就像越来越潮湿。他开始发现自己很享受她的陪伴，那是......意外。她出乎意料。

Lucius lowered himself into her seat and reached forward to pick up his firewhiskey. She had waltzed in and upended everything. The Mudblood. Whatever that even was. It felt like such a meaningless word to him now. Just...sounds. Echoes from his father’s mouth.
卢修斯坐到座位上，伸手去拿他的火威士忌。她跳了华尔兹，颠覆了一切。泥巴种。不管那是什么。现在对他来说，这句话真是毫无意义。只。。。听 起来。“从他父亲的嘴里回荡着。

Reality was a strange thing when it was as contained as his was. Having a solid grasp of it felt key to retaining his sanity but somehow it was more fluid, less simple, than it ever had been. He didn't communicate with the world outside of the Manor—his life, his reality, was entirely between its walls and within its grounds. Where she was, disrupting everything.
当现实像他一样被收容时，它就是一个奇怪的东西。牢牢掌握它感觉是保持他理智的关键，但不知何故，它比以往任何时候都更流畅，不那么简单。他不与庄园外的世界交流——他的生活，他的现实，完全在庄园的墙壁和场地内。她在哪里，扰乱了一切。

Granger was a Mudblood. But she wasn't anything like what he'd always thought Mudbloods were. That was a problem, because if she wasn’t what he’d always said she was, how could he be in any way certain that he was what he’d always believed he was? Based on what he'd learned of her, the differences between Mudbloods and Pure-bloods were—could only be—a fabrication. As she’d said.
格兰杰是个泥巴种。但她和他一直认为的泥巴种一点也不像。那是个问题，因为如果她不是他一直说的那种，他怎么能确定他就是他一直认为的那种呢？根据他对她的了解，泥巴种和纯血统之间的差异是——只能是——捏造的。正如她所说。

Because the girl that visited his home multiple times a week was very real. Her intelligence was real; her smile was real; those freckles on her shoulder were real. Certainly, he could say without a doubt that her body was real, having felt it pressed under him in this very room. 
因为那个每周多次拜访他家的女孩非常真实。她的智慧是真实的;她的笑容是真实的;她肩膀上的那些雀斑是真的。当然，他可以毫无疑问地说她的身体是真实的，因为他在这个房间里感觉到它压在他身下。

Lucius recalled the way her head had been reclined against the stone, exposing her neck. He had thought of her positioned like that multiple times over the week, each time with greater hunger and less of a grip on what the truth of the moment had been. Increasingly, to his obviously addled mind, it would have been so easy to press his lips against the smooth, delicate skin of her neck. The lips that she had audaciously told him looked softer when he smiled. What would she have done? Perhaps she wouldn't have arched her back towards him due to pain. Perhaps he wouldn't have jumped away.
卢修斯想起了她的头靠在石头上，露出脖子的样子。他在一周里多次想过她那样的位置，每一次都带着更大的饥饿感，对这一刻的真相的把握更少。在他显然很烦躁的头脑中，把他的嘴唇贴在她脖子上光滑、细腻的皮肤上是如此容易。当他微笑时，她大胆地告诉他的嘴唇看起来更柔和了。她会怎么做呢？也许她不会因为疼痛而向他拱起背。也许他不会跳开。

A warmth spread through Lucius as he allowed himself to linger on the possibilities and he growled angrily, taking another long drink. It had been years since he’d experienced anything close to desire. Since before his house arrest, certainly. He’d just assumed those were feelings he was going to have to learn to live without and, given his circumstances, he’d been quite satisfied by that. It was easier. It wasn’t as though he had any particularly palatable outlet, even before Narcissa’s departure. Now, here he was, ruminating on the appeal of a witch half his age. What a painful cliché he was becoming.
当卢修斯允许自己徘徊在可能性上时，一股温暖在卢修斯心中蔓延开来，他愤怒地咆哮着，又喝了一大口。他已经很多年没有经历过任何接近欲望的事情了。当然，从他被软禁之前开始。他只是认为这些是他必须学会没有的感觉，考虑到他的情况，他对此已经相当满意了。这更容易。他似乎没有什么特别可口的出口，甚至在纳西莎离开之前。现在，他就在这里，沉思着一个比他大一半的女巫的吸引力。他变成了多么痛苦的陈词滥调。

He'd told Granger his pride was one of the few things he had left and she was just taking it piece by piece. She'd undermined his blood purity and she was turning him into the kind of man he hated. Lustful and pining. Weak. 
他告诉格兰杰，他的骄傲是他所剩无几的东西之一，而她只是一块一块地接受它。她破坏了他的血统纯洁，她正在把他变成他讨厌的那种男人。和渴望。弱。

The worst thing was, he didn't even think she knew she was doing it. That artless innocence made her all the more appealing. It also made him hate her even more. 
最糟糕的是，他甚至不认为她知道自己在做这件事。那种不做作的天真使她更加有吸引力。这也让他更加讨厌她。

Because that's what it all was underneath, wasn't it? 
因为这就是它背后的一切，不是吗？

Hate. 
恨。

It was behind that desire to bury his hand in her curls at the nape of her neck and see her eyes widen in fear. To grip and yank and make her full lips part in a gasp. To hear her beg and plead. To whimper his name. Moan his name. 
正是在那种渴望的背后，他想把他的手埋进她后颈的卷发里，看到她恐惧地睁大了眼睛。抓住和拉扯，让她丰满的嘴唇在喘息中分开。听她乞求和恳求。呜咽着他的名字。呻吟他的名字。

Merlin's fucking balls .
梅林他妈的蛋蛋。

Lucius groaned and dragged a hand down his face. He only knew how to hate her. Yet hate hadn't been behind his concern for her in the library. Hate hadn't prompted him to ask Draco to make it safe. Draco wouldn't have been so damned pleased to help if it had been. His son had been so unbearable for that entire afternoon, telling him how delighted Granger would be, that Lucius had been forced to leave him to it. 
卢修斯呻吟着，一只手顺着他的脸滑下。他只知道如何恨她。然而，仇恨并不是他在图书馆里对她的关心的背后。仇恨并没有促使他请求德拉科确保它的安全。如果是这样的话，德拉科就不会那么高兴地帮忙了。他的儿子在那整个下午都难以忍受，告诉他格兰杰会多么高兴，以至于卢修斯被迫让他去做这件事。

It annoyed Lucius almost as much that she didn't seem to hate him . He wanted her to. He thought she really had in the early days of their meetings but increasingly she was so resolutely unflappable. Smiling at his sneers, brushing off his barbs. There was a warmth in her that made it hard to be cold.
这几乎让卢修斯很恼火，因为她似乎并不讨厌他。他希望她这样做。他认为她在他们见面的早期确实有过，但她越来越坚决地镇定自若。对他的冷笑微笑，拂去他的倒钩。她身上有一种温暖，让人很难感到寒冷。

But pure, cold-hearted hatred was so much simpler than this strange, simmering anticipation he felt towards her now. It wouldn't do. He wanted her gone. Yet the idea that she would never come back brought his brows low in a frown. 
但纯粹、冷酷的仇恨比他现在对她感到的这种奇怪的、酝酿已久的期待要简单得多。这不行。他想让她走。然而，她永远不会回来的想法让他皱起了眉头。

Sighing, Lucius pulled a folder towards himself and flicked it open, intending to distract himself. Potter’s. Fine. As though he hadn't heard about every aspect of Potter's life anyway but fine.
卢修斯叹了口气，把一个文件夹拉向自己，弹开了它，打算分散自己的注意力。波特的。好。就好像他反正没有听说过波特生活的方方面面一样，但还好。

Lucius had been reading his way through her work on the night when sleep evaded him most. It was interesting, probably in part because it was imbued with her abiding interest in what she was doing. 
卢修斯在最躲避睡眠的那个晚上一直在阅读她的工作。这很有趣，可能部分原因是它充满了她对自己所做的事情的持久兴趣。

Granger was just so interested in everything with that keen little brain of hers. Right now, she was interested in him. There was something about being the focus of Hermione Granger's interest that was both alarming and gratifying. It was a long time since he'd seen passion not borne from a desire to do harm, to destroy, but he was beginning to think it was no less potent for that.
格兰杰对她那敏锐的小脑袋对一切都如此感兴趣。现在，她对他感兴趣。成为赫敏·格兰杰感兴趣的焦点，这既令人担忧又令人欣慰。他已经很久没有见过激情不是源于伤害、破坏的欲望了，但他开始认为这种激情对这种欲望的效力并不逊色。

He'd been trying to figure out what it was that he enjoyed about interacting with her when he had spent so long closing himself off. He was starting to think that it was because she didn't make him feel like a problem. He was a solution for her – the person she wanted and needed to get something right – and it had been so long since he'd been that for anyone.
他一直在试图弄清楚，当他花了这么长时间把自己封闭起来时，他喜欢和她互动是什么。他开始认为这是因为她没有让他觉得自己是个问题。他是她的解决方案——她想要和需要把事情做好的人——而且他已经很久没有成为任何人了。

Of course, her interest wouldn't last. She'd get what she needed from him and then leave and his days would go back to what they'd been before her arrival: peaceful, long and empty. Good. Good? Yes, good. Definitely good. The sooner the better.
当然，她的兴趣不会持续下去。她会从他那里得到她需要的东西，然后离开，他的日子会回到她到来之前的样子：平静、漫长和空虚。好。好？是的，很好。绝对不错。越早越好。

It was best that he prepared for that day. It was, perhaps, even better that he expedite its arrival. Lucius’ eyes slid to the fire where the last of the parchment was burning up. No more teasing notes, no more tea on the terrace, no more warmth. No more.
他最好为那一天做好准备。也许，他能加快它的到来是更好的。卢修斯的眼睛滑向火堆，最后一块羊皮纸正在燃烧。不再有挑逗的音符，不再有露台上的茶，不再有温暖。没有了。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

We are NOT going backwards I swear! I will drag Lucius kicking and screaming into this great love. A necessary slow down this chapter but over the next few chapters I promise, I will not disappoint. Eh heh.
我发誓我们不会倒退！我会把 Lucius 拖进这伟大的爱情中。有必要放慢本章的速度，但在接下来的几章中，我保证，我不会让人失望。呵呵。

Chapter 21
第二十一章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione returns for another meeting and Lucius lashes out
赫敏回来参加另一次会议，卢修斯猛烈抨击

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you all so much for reading and kudosing and commenting. I'm so grateful!
非常感谢大家的阅读、关注和评论。我非常感激！

June 22nd
6月22日

Hermione was surprised when Letty directed her to the greenhouse for her meeting with Malfoy. After the last time they'd been in there together she hadn't expected that he would ever let her return and she told him just that when she found him standing by his workbench, a pestle in hand. 
赫敏对莱蒂带她去温室与马尔福会面感到惊讶。上次他们一起进去之后，她没想到他会让她回来，当她发现他站在他的工作台旁，手里拿着杵时，她只是告诉他。

"I'm not asking for your help, Miss Granger," he said, barely looking up from what he was doing. "So you can rid yourself of that notion. I’m simply asking that we conduct our interview here today so that I can do this at the same time."
“我不是在找你帮忙，格兰杰小姐，”他说，几乎没从他正在做的事情中抬起头来。“所以你可以摆脱这种想法。我只是要求我们今天在这里进行采访，这样我就可以同时进行采访。

Hermione walked towards him and deposited her bag on the clear half of the workbench. "And what is 'this'?" she asked, removing the Wheezebox and Quick Quotes Quill from her bag. 
赫敏走向他，把她的包放在工作台的空旷半边。“那'这个'是什么？”她问道，从包里拿出 Wheezebox 和 Quick Quotes Quill。

"I'm powdering the asphodel roots for Draco's potions and it must be done before this evening," he murmured, pressing the pestle into the mortar. "Does that explanation meet your satisfaction?"
“我正在给德拉科的药剂做石槐根磨粉，今天晚上必须做完，”他喃喃自语着，一边把杵压进研钵里。“这个解释让你满意吗？”

"Yes," Hermione said, giving him a friendly smile as his head turned and his eyes rose to hers. Not seeing a seat, Hermione lowered her bag to the floor and, turning, lifted herself up onto the workbench so that she was sitting near where Malfoy was working but facing in the opposite direction. His movements stuttered and he glanced down at her legs swinging near him.
“是的，”赫敏说，给了他一个友好的微笑，他转过头来，目光抬起来看她。赫敏没有看到座位，她把包放到地板上，转身把自己抬到工作台上，这样她就坐在马尔福工作的地方附近，但面向相反的方向。他的动作结结巴巴，他低头瞥了一眼她在他身边摆动的双腿。

"Sorry," she muttered, stilling the movement of her legs. He didn't say anything but resumed powdering the roots with a little more force than before. Moody today , Hermione mentally noted. 
“对不起，”她咕哝着，让双腿的动作静止下来。他什么也没说，只是继续用比以前更大的力气给根部撒粉。 今天穆迪，赫敏在心里记下。

Placing the Wheezebox in the space between where she was sitting and he was working, Hermione tapped it with her wand. 
赫敏把喘息盒放在她坐的地方和他正在工作的地方之间的空隙里，用魔杖敲了敲它。

"I thought maybe we could talk about the period Voldemort spent in your home, after you'd been broken out of Azkaban."
“我想也许我们可以谈谈伏地魔在你家度过的那段时间，那时你被解救出阿兹卡班之后。”

"Oh, goody," he muttered with one particularly vehement twist of the pestle.
“哦，天哪，”他咕哝着，杵特别猛烈地扭动着。

"In our last meeting, you suggested he was reluctantly welcomed."
“在我们上次见面时，你说他很不情愿地受到了欢迎。”

"Yes."
“是的。”

"He was an unpleasant guest?"
“他是个不愉快的客人吗？”

Malfoy stopped what he was doing and gave Hermione an utterly incredulous look that distinctly asked her if she was joking. She shrugged in response, having received the reponse she expected, and he rolled his eyes. 
马尔福停下了手头的事情，用完全难以置信的眼神看了赫敏一眼，显然是在问她是不是在开玩笑。她耸了耸肩作为回应，因为她已经收到了她所期望的回应，他翻了个白眼。

"He had nothing on you, but yes."
“他对你什么都没有，但是是的。”

Hermione grinned and it only got wider when she saw the corners of Malfoy's mouth twitch. She got great enjoyment out of his reluctant pleasure in her company. In part because it made her feel better about the increasing amount she enjoyed his.
赫敏咧嘴一笑，当她看到马尔福的嘴角抽搐时，她的嘴角才变得更大了。她从他不情愿地享受她的陪伴中获得了极大的乐趣。部分原因是这让她对他越来越喜欢的感觉更好。

"Did the rest of the Death Eaters stay?"
“其余的食死徒都留下来了吗？”

His face dropped into tiredness and he returned to his powdering. "We were the headquarters, primarily for gatherings. They dropped in and out; we fed them if they needed to be fed, gave them a bed if they needed to sleep. The Dark Lord was an almost permanent fixture. As were myself, Narcissa and Draco. And dear Bellatrix, of course."
他的脸上陷入了疲惫，他又开始涂粉了。“我们是总部，主要是聚会的。他们进进出出;如果他们需要吃饭，我们就给他们喂食，如果他们需要睡觉，我们就给他们一张床。黑魔王几乎是永久的固定人物。我、纳西莎和德拉科也是。当然还有亲爱的贝拉特里克斯。

"He didn't send you back out to do work for him?" Hermione asked, thinking most specifically of the night they'd removed Harry from the Dursleys. 
“他不是派你出去为他干活的吗？”赫敏问道，特别想起了他们把哈利从德思礼家带走的那个晚上。

"No. He was at pains to make it clear that I was, without my influence in the Ministry, quite useless to him. Doubly so as an Azkaban escapee."
“不。他煞费苦心地表明，如果没有我在魔法部的影响力，我对他来说完全没有用处。作为一个阿兹卡班的逃亡者更是如此。

"So, what did you do?"
“那么，你做了什么？”

"Waited for any chance to prove myself and told Narcissa and Draco to do the same. Returning to his favour felt like the only way to survive but opportunities were increasingly hard to come by."
“等待任何证明自己的机会，并告诉纳西莎和德拉科也这样做。回到他的青睐似乎是生存的唯一途径，但机会越来越难获得。

"Didn't you consider turning? Even just for protection?"
“你没想过转身吗？哪怕只是为了保护？

Lucius kept his head down but shook it, his shoulders lifting with a single humourless chuckle. "No. It was well past that point, Miss Granger."
卢修斯一直低着头，但还是摇了摇，他的肩膀抬起，发出一声毫无幽默感的笑声。“不。早就过了那个时候了，格兰杰小姐。

Hermione inspected his firm, forceful movements with the pestle. He had removed his rings to do the work and she spied them on the far side of the table, far from what he was doing. 
赫敏用杵检查着他坚定而有力的动作。他摘下了他的戒指来做这项工作，她在桌子的另一边偷看它们，离他正在做的事情很远。

"You're a very careful man, Mr Malfoy, aren't you?"
“你是个很小心的人，马尔福先生，不是吗？”

"I would hardly rush to describe myself as care less ."
“我几乎不会急于将自己描述为不在乎。”

"You couldn't see any way of reaching out to the Order that wasn't careless?"
“你看不出有什么办法可以不粗心地联系教团吗？”

Malfoy stilled and raised his head to give her a sidelong look. "Even if I had wanted to do such a thing, which I most certainly did not , we were quite closely watched. We had to move up in the Dark Lord's esteem or not at all. I had chosen my path, Miss Granger, and it narrowed and shortened with each passing day."
马尔福静了下来，抬起头来，斜头看了她一眼。“即使我想做这样的事情，但我肯定没有，我们还是受到了相当密切的监视。我们不得不在黑魔王的尊重中上升，或者根本不在乎。我选择了自己的路，格兰杰小姐，它一天比一天变窄，越来越短。

"But you were tortured by him." She said it as a statement rather than a question. There was no point pretending she didn't know. "All of you."
“但你被他折磨了。”她说这句话是为了陈述，而不是一个问题。假装她不知道是没有意义的。“你们所有人。”

Lucius set his pestle down on the workbench entirely, his hand still resting on it as he turned to observe her fully. "And I suppose Draco told you that, did he?" The question was perfectly polite but there was an edge to his tone, as though he thought she might be making fun of him. 
卢修斯把杵完全放在工作台上，他的手仍然放在上面，转过身来仔细观察她。“我想德拉科是告诉你的，是吗？”“这个问题非常有礼貌，但他的语气里却带着一丝锋芒，仿佛他觉得她可能在取笑他。

"He did," Hermione said, nervously swinging her legs once before halting when she remembered how much it annoyed him. And Luna. "But he wasn't willing to say much."
“他做到了，”赫敏说，紧张地摆动了一下双腿，然后当她想起这让他有多恼火时，她停了下来。 还有 Luna。 “但他不愿意说太多。”

Snatching up the pestle, Malfoy began powdering with more force than ever. Hermione half expected him to go through the mortar to the table.
马尔福抓起杵，开始用比以往任何时候都大的力气给杵上粉。赫敏半信半疑地希望他能穿过砂浆走到桌子上。

"He said that was more your story to tell."
“他说那更像是你的故事。”

"Did he now?"
“他现在呢？”

"Yes." 
“是的。”

Lucius' chest swelled and his movements steadily slowed until they came to a stop. He took a moment before looking up at her, an unusually earnest tilt to his eyebrows. "I tried to protect Narcissa and Draco. I did. I always placed myself between him and them."
卢修斯的胸口膨胀，他的动作稳步减慢，直到停了下来。他过了一会儿才抬头看着她，眉毛异常认真地歪了歪。“我试图保护纳西莎和德拉科。我做了。我总是把自己放在他和他们之间。

"But he still…?"
“但他还是......？”

"I...failed,” he said, looking down at the asphodel blankly as though he could still hardly believe it. “I couldn't always stay conscious through the pain and when I couldn't he would move on. To them."
“我......失败了，“他说，茫然地低头看着 Asphodel，仿佛他仍然难以置信。“我无法在痛苦中始终保持清醒，当我不能时，他会继续前进。对他们来说。

Hermione set her hand flat on the workbench, her fingers twitching as though desperate to move. But she didn't extend her hand towards him as she would have done with Draco. Something held her back.
赫敏把手平放在工作台上，手指抽搐着，仿佛急于移动。但她没有像对德拉科那样向他伸出手。有什么东西阻碍了她。

"Why did he do it?"
“他为什么要这样做？”

"He didn't need a reason, Miss Granger. We were there for every piece of news. Good and bad. Both elicited…reactions."
“他不需要理由，格兰杰小姐。我们在那里听到每一条新闻。好与坏。两者都引起了......反应。

Hermione's fingers pressed against the table and, against her better judgement, she allowed her hand to inch towards him. It sounded like Voldemort had used the entire Malfoy family as a stress ball and sympathy was her natural reaction.
赫敏的手指按在桌子上，与她更好的判断相反，她让她的手慢慢地向他靠近。听起来像是伏地魔把整个马尔福家族当作压力球，而同情是她的自然反应。

"What did he do to you?"
“他对你做了什么？”

"The Cruciatus curse, mostly." Malfoy glanced down at her hand and returned to his work with an indifferent shrug but Hermione suspected it was an affected indifference. "The Dark Lord wasn't hugely creative in that area. He much preferred efficiency. Anything else would be wasting time on people who didn't deserve it."
“主要是十字架诅咒。”马尔福低头看了一眼她的手，冷漠地耸了耸肩，继续他的工作，但赫敏怀疑那是一种受影响的冷漠。“黑魔王在这方面没有很大的创造力。他更喜欢效率。其他任何事情都会在不值得的人身上浪费时间。

"Did you have to see him—"
“你得见他吗——”

"Yes, I had to see him perform the curse on my family, Miss Granger. No, I did not enjoy it. Yes, I still think about it."
“是的，我必须看到他对我的家人施行诅咒，格兰杰小姐。不，我不喜欢它。是的，我仍然在想。

"How did it feel?"
“感觉如何？”

"You're no stranger to the Cruciatus curse," he pointed out coldly. "Surely you don't need to ask that." His eyes met hers and his lip curled. “It hurt.”
“你对十字架诅咒并不陌生，”他冷冷地指出。“你当然不需要问那个。”他的眼睛与她的目光相遇，嘴唇弯起。“好痛。”

Hermione frowned at his flippant reference to her own torture and turned the question. "Then how did it feel to go through what you'd put so many other families through? Did you ever think about them when you watched him torture your own family?"
赫敏对他轻率地提到她自己的折磨皱起了眉头，然后转过了问题。“那么，你让这么多其他家庭经历了这一切，感觉如何？当你看到他折磨你自己的家人时，你有没有想过他们？

Lucius narrowed his eyes at her and returned them to the mortar, dragging his teeth along his bottom lip. "Taking no prisoners today, hm? Well, no. I did not. I'm sure it would be satisfying for you to hear that I wept and beat my breast, drowning in the collective pain of all those I wronged. But I didn't actually have a great deal of clarity in those moments to consider anything except what was in front of me and how helpless I was to stop it. If I was even conscious in those moments at all."
卢修斯眯起眼睛看着她，把眼睛放回砂浆上，用牙齿咬着下唇。“今天不抓俘虏，嗯？嗯，不是。我没有。我相信，如果听到我哭泣、捶胸顿足，淹没在所有我冤枉的人的集体痛苦中，你会感到满足。但在那些时刻，我实际上并没有很清晰的思路去考虑任何事情，除了眼前的事情以及我是多么无助地阻止它。如果我在那些时刻还有意识的话。

"What do you think of it now?"
“你现在觉得怎么样？”

He took a deep breath, his shoulders rising, and then leaned his hands on the workbench, the pestle clutched in his fist. "I wasn't actually ever a very big proponent of the Cruciatus curse so I don't think it was a particularly poetic form of justice."
他深吸一口气，肩膀抬起，然后双手靠在工作台上，杵紧握在拳头里。“实际上，我从来都不是十字架诅咒的大力支持者，所以我不认为这是一种特别诗意的正义形式。”

Hermione was stunned into a silence, faint disgust at his coldness clear on her face. Seeing it, he smiled unpleasantly. Not his soft smile, she noted. Not a real smile. He looked like the old Lucius Malfoy. It was strange that there was an old Lucius Malfoy to her. Stranger that she could miss the one she felt she was getting to know. "I always favoured the Imperius curse."
赫敏惊呆了，沉默了下来，脸上对他的冷漠感到淡淡的厌恶。见状，他不悦地笑了笑。不是他温柔的笑容，她注意到。不是真正的微笑。他看起来像老卢修斯·马尔福。奇怪的是，她竟然有一个老卢修斯·马尔福。更奇怪的是，她会错过她觉得自己正在了解的那个人。“我一直都喜欢帝王诅咒。”

"For torture?"
“为了折磨？”

If Malfoy heard the doubt in her voice, he didn't acknowledge it. "Of course."
如果马尔福听到了她声音中的疑惑，他并没有承认。“当然。”

"You can't torture with the Imperius curse, Mr Malfoy." Hermione said it but even to her own ears she didn't sound certain. 
“你不能用不死咒来折磨人，马尔福先生。”赫敏说了，但即使她自己听来，她听起来也不太确定。

"Can't you?" he asked, his eyebrows rising. "It has many benefits over the Cruciatus curse or vulgar physical torture. For one thing, it doesn’t leave a mark. Nor does it push the body to the brink, so it can be used for a prolonged period."
“你不能吗？” 他问道，眉毛扬起。“它比十字架诅咒或粗俗的身体折磨有很多好处。首先，它不会留下任何痕迹。它也不会将身体推向边缘，因此可以长时间使用。

"So what does it do?"
“那么它有什么作用呢？”

"It gives you a certain power to humiliate and bend the mind without risk of breakage. People can only ever take so much of that."
“它给了你某种力量来羞辱和扭曲思想，而不会有破裂的风险。人们只能承受这么多。

Said with the authority of a man who knows.
“以一个知情人的权威说。

"But they wouldn't remember," she said. 
“但他们不会记得，”她说。

He relinquished the pestle and straightened up, his eyes fixed on hers. Despite the heat of the greenhouse, a chill passed through Hermione and the hairs on her arms stood on end. 
他放下杵，直起身来，眼睛盯着她。尽管温室很热，但一股寒意传遍了赫敏，她手臂上的汗毛都竖了起来。

"There’s always some awareness in the Imperius Curse, though it varies from person to person. Often, it’s like watching oneself from behind thick glass or underwater. But for clarity’s sake, there's no reason why you can't show their memories—or yours—back to them," he said with the tone of a teacher explaining a simple concept. "Make them watch the things they've done for a few hours, maybe days."
“冥王诅咒中总有一些意识，尽管它因人而异。通常，这就像从厚玻璃后面或水下看着自己。但为了清楚起见，你没有理由不把他们的记忆——或者你的——还给他们看，“他用老师解释一个简单的概念的语气说。“让他们花几个小时，也许几天来观察他们所做的事情。”

“It's a far more intimate form of torture and leaves a more...lasting impression than the Cruciatus curse. Done right it can make a person begin to doubt who they truly are at their core. The self is a very fragile thing. Even the strongest person will break when you have them hurt their own family."
“这是一种更亲密的酷刑形式，留下了更......比十字架诅咒更持久的印象。如果做得好，它会让一个人开始怀疑他们的核心到底是谁。自我是非常脆弱的。即使是最强壮的人，当你让他们伤害自己的家人时，也会崩溃。

Breathing hard through her nose, Hermione inspected his face. She believed what he was telling her, believed that if he hadn't done this then he had seen it done. 
赫敏用鼻子用力呼吸，检查着他的脸。她相信他告诉她的话，相信如果他没有做这件事，那他就已经看到了。

"The physical pain of the Cruciatus curse is so temporary by comparison, I think," he continued, his tone conversational. "It can be withstood and overcome. After all, you coped with Bellatrix. You coped well enough to lie, I believe. Very impressive. Very strong. Very brave , I dare say."
“相比之下，十字架诅咒的身体痛苦是如此短暂，我想，”他继续说道，语气是对话式的。“它可以承受和克服。毕竟，你应付了 Bellatrix。我相信你应付得足够好，可以撒谎。非常令人印象深刻。非常强大。我敢说，非常勇敢。

Hermione glanced down at the faint scar on her arm that was turned in towards her thigh and Malfoy's eyes followed hers. He approached her, trailing a hand along the workbench before stopping right beside her. He looked pointedly at her arm and then flicked his gaze up to hers. Hermione’s heart fluttered at the intensity she found in it.
赫敏低头瞥了一眼她手臂上那道向大腿弯曲的淡淡疤痕，马尔福的眼睛也跟着她的眼睛。他走近她，一只手在工作台上拖曳，然后停在她身边。他尖锐地看着她的手臂，然后抬头看向她的眼睛。赫敏的心因为她在其中发现的强烈而颤抖。

"May I?" he asked.
“我可以吗？”

She didn't need to ask what he meant. She knew. Still, she hesitated before turning and raising her forearm for him to see. Quite against her expectations, however, he reached out and took her arm in his hand, almost cradling it. 
她不需要问他的意思。她知道。尽管如此，她还是犹豫了一下，然后转过身来，举起前臂让他看到。然而，出乎她意料的是，他伸出手来，把她的手臂握在手里，几乎要抱住它。

Hermione inhaled shakily as she observed the strange sight of herself in his grasp, the fluttering of her heart becoming a more solid but still erratic beat. His hand was soft and surprisingly warm. It easily could have spanned her forearm if he'd closed it. Instead, he ran the pad of his thumb over her scar, so gently he could have been breathing across it. 
赫敏颤抖着吸了一口气，她看着自己在他手中的奇怪景象，她的心跳变得更加坚实但仍然不稳定。他的手很柔软，出奇的温暖。如果他闭上它，它很容易就跨过她的前臂。相反，他用拇指垫滑过她的伤疤，如此轻柔，他可以呼吸穿过它。

"You really were very brave, Miss Granger,” he said, his voice as soft as his touch. "You cried, of course. Screamed, yes. But you didn't break." A small frown pulled developed on his brow. "I suppose Bellatrix thought there was humiliation in this. This word and her violence. She always did struggle to see beyond the corporeal. But you've never been a Mudblood, have you?"
“你真是太勇敢了，格兰杰小姐，”他说，他的声音和他的触感一样轻柔。“你当然哭了。尖叫着，是的。但你没有崩溃。他的眉头上皱起了眉头。“我想贝拉特里克斯认为这其中有羞辱。这个词和她的暴力。她总是努力超越肉体。但你从来就不是泥巴种，对吧？

His thumb was rubbing her arm slightly harder but his touch was still light overall. It was pleasant. Hermione raised her eyes to his, her breathing growing shallow. His eyes were such a cold grey but there was a flicker of something warm in them when they met hers. She held his gaze in the hope of seeing it again.
他的拇指稍微用力地摩擦着她的手臂，但他的触感总体上还是很轻的。这很愉快。赫敏抬起眼睛看向他，她的呼吸越来越浅。他的眼睛是如此冰冷的灰色，但当它们与她的眼睛相遇时，眼中闪过一丝温暖。她凝视着他，希望能再次看到它。

"She could call you a Mudblood all she liked but you are not what we say a Mudblood is. A Mudblood is dirty and undeserving of magic. That’s not you, is it?"
“她可以随心所欲地称你为泥巴种，但你不是我们所说的泥巴种。泥巴种是肮脏的，不配拥有魔法。那不是你，对吧？

"No," Hermione said, embarrassed by the small tremor she heard in her own voice. “That’s not anyone.”
“不，”赫敏说，她从自己的声音中听到了轻微的颤抖，这让她感到尴尬。“那不是任何人。”

He stepped over so that he was standing more fully in front of her, his hips mere centimetres from her knees, his knuckles brushing her thigh as he held her arm and looked down at it. Hermione felt an alarming urge to spread her legs to let him in even closer but she didn't. So she let him in another way. 
他走过去，这样他就可以更完整地站在她面前，他的臀部离她的膝盖只有几厘米，他的指关节抚摸着她的大腿，同时他握住她的手臂，低头看着它。赫敏感到一种令人震惊的冲动，想张开双腿让他更靠近，但她没有。所以她以另一种方式让他。

"I still dream about what happened."
“我仍然梦想着发生的事情。”

The rhythmic stroking of his thumb stuttered and his eyes flicked back up to hers, searching. He seemed to hesitate before continuing his movements.
他有节奏的拇指抚摸结结巴巴，他的眼睛又瞥了一眼，寻找着。他似乎犹豫了一下，才继续他的动作。

"Of course you do," he finally said, a cooing quality to his voice. "I wouldn't have been half so crude as Bellatrix, you know."
“你当然知道，”他终于说，声音里带着咕咕的气息。“我不会像贝拉特里克斯那样粗鲁的，你知道的。”

"What…"
“什么......”

The word came out as a whisper but Hermione shut her mouth tight to stop the rest of the sentence, swallowing it down with a gulp. The desire to ask had been instinctive and the look Lucius gave Hermione from under his brow told her that he knew exactly what she'd just stopped herself from saying. He didn't seem surprised by it, or even disgusted. The man was no stranger to the morbid, she supposed.
这个词以耳语的形式说出来，但赫敏紧紧地闭上嘴巴，阻止了这句话的其余部分，一口气吞了下去。问的欲望是本能的，卢修斯从额头下看向赫敏的眼神告诉她，他完全知道她刚才阻止自己说了什么。他似乎对此并不感到惊讶，甚至没有感到厌恶。她想，这个男人对病态并不陌生。

"What would I have done?" he asked lightly, raising his head. "I believe that's the question on the tip of your tongue, hm?"
“我该怎么办？” 他抬起头轻轻地问道。“我相信这就是你嘴尖上的问题，嗯？”

His eyes descended to her mouth and Hermione's tongue unconsciously darted out to wet her lips as she gave him a hesitant nod. There was a roiling in her stomach that felt like a warning.
他的眼睛低垂到她的嘴上，赫敏的舌头不自觉地伸出来弄湿了她的嘴唇，她犹豫地点了点头。她的胃里翻腾着，感觉像是一个警告。

"I told you," he said patiently. "The Imperius curse." Before Hermione could demand or refuse elaboration, he continued. "Your mind is so important to you, Miss Granger. I would have made it mine."
“我告诉过你了，”他耐心地说。“帝王诅咒。”在赫敏要求或拒绝详细说明之前，他继续说道。“你的思想对你来说太重要了，格兰杰小姐。我会把它变成我的。

Hermione's breath caught and she swallowed. "I don't think that would have worked."
赫敏喘不过气来，她咽了口口水。“我认为那不会奏效。”

"No?" His thumb stopped stroking but he didn't let her arm go, instead lowering his hand so that the back of it lay against her thigh, his knuckles sinking into her flesh. "You seem very certain about that."
“没有？”他的拇指停止了抚摸，但他没有放开她的手臂，而是放下手，让手背靠在她的大腿上，他的指关节陷入她的肉里。“你似乎对此非常确定。”

"I am."
“我是。”

"Not even if I'd had you live the creed of the Laws of Obedience for a while?"
“就算我让你暂时奉行服从法则的信条也不行？”

Hermione's arm twitched involuntarily in his grip but she didn't draw away. "No."
赫敏的手臂在他的握里不由自主地抽搐了一下，但她没有抽离。“不。”

"Ah, but we seem less certain now.” His eyes bored into hers, no trace of his usual smirk on his face. “You didn't see what I did in that book, Miss Granger. I could have made you do things you would never have wanted to do for me. And I could have forced you to watch yourself doing them over and over again. "
“啊，但我们现在似乎不太确定了。”他的眼睛无聊地看着她，脸上没有他平常的笑容。“你没看到我在那本书里做了什么，格兰杰小姐。我本可以让你做你从来不想为我做的事情。我本可以强迫你看着自己一遍又一遍地做这些事情。"

Hermione's mind went into overdrive, trying to fill in the gaps Malfoy was leaving. Mostly she could only picture herself being some kind of slavish house elf figure but there was something in the darkness of Malfoy's expression that made her think that wasn't all the Laws of Obedience had covered. 
赫敏的大脑超速运转，试图填补马尔福留下的空白。大多数时候，她只能想象自己是某种奴隶式的家养小精灵形象，但在马尔福的黑暗表情中，有一些东西让她觉得这并不是服从法则所涵盖的全部。

Glancing down at the hand holding her arm, she imagined it gently guiding her down onto her knees in front of him and instinctively pressed them together.
她低头瞥了一眼握着她手臂的手，想象着它温柔地引导她跪在他面前，并本能地将它们压在一起。

"To your own eyes you would have appeared so happy in your obedience, you might have started to doubt whether that was not your natural state. Whether that subservient life might not be a better alternative."
“在你自己看来，你的服从会显得如此快乐，你可能会开始怀疑这是否不是你的自然状态。那种顺从的生活是否不是更好的选择。

"Stop it " she said, lifting her arm out of his grasp to cradle it against her chest. Malfoy withdrew his hand, dragging his knuckle along her leg, and Hermione keenly felt the loss of the heat of it against her thigh. 
“住手，”她说，把手臂从他的手中抬起来，把它靠在胸前。马尔福收回手，用指关节沿着她的腿拖拽，赫敏敏敏锐地感觉到它在她的大腿上失去了热量。

Curling his fingers, he leaned his hands against the workbench on either side of her hips, the wool of his trousers coming close enough to brush against her knees. He was so close she could smell his cologne even over the heavy, earthy scents of the greenhouse. It filled her head, expanding like a gas, and an unexpected warmth coiled low in her belly. Unable to hold his gaze, she lowered her eyes, looking down to see how close his hands were to her bare legs.
他卷起手指，将手靠在她臀部两侧的工作台上，他裤子的羊毛靠得足够近，足以擦过她的膝盖。他离得如此之近，她甚至能闻到他的古龙水的味道，甚至掩盖了温室浓郁的泥土气味。它填满了她的头，像气体一样膨胀，一股意想不到的温暖在她的腹部低垂盘绕。她无法控制他的目光，低下眼睛，低头看看他的手离她裸露的双腿有多近。

"You never know, Miss Granger,” he said, his voice soft like a snake slithering over wet leaves, “you might have liked it." 
“你永远不知道，格兰杰小姐，”他说，他的声音轻柔得像一条在湿树叶上滑行的蛇，“你可能喜欢它。

Hermione swallowed, sure she was imagining the suggestiveness in his words. The moist heat of the greenhouse was oppressively heavy and she felt like she might drown if she tried to inhale too deeply.
赫敏咽了口口水，确信她是在想象他话语中的暗示。温室的湿热令人压抑，她觉得如果她试图吸气太深，她可能会淹死。

"Don't be ridiculous." 
“别荒谬。”

In the scene in her head, Malfoy cupped her face in his hand and slid his fingers into her curls, forcing her to meet his eyes while she kneeled in front of him. The heat in her belly bloomed and she clenched her hands into fists, mortified, as she forced herself to return her eyes to his.
在她脑海中的场景中，马尔福用手捧住她的脸，将手指滑入她的卷发中，迫使她跪在他面前时与他的眼睛对视。她肚子里的热气绽放，她双手紧握成拳头，羞愧不已，强迫自己把目光回到他的身上。

"You are, to my mind, a woman who likes control," Malfoy said silkily, his eyes combing her face. "So intelligent, too. But I imagine it can be quite loud in that busy head of yours at times. The Imperius curse is a break from that. A blessed relief. It makes everything so exquisitely… simple . All that doubt and fear, all the pain of the war—gone. You’d have had my voice alone in your head and you’d have clung to it like a salvation."
“在我看来，你是一个喜欢控制的女人，”马尔福温柔地说，他的眼睛梳理着她的脸。“也很聪明。但我想它有时会在你那个忙碌的头脑中响亮。Imperius 诅咒就是对这一点的突破。一种幸福的解脱。它让一切都变得如此精致......简单。所有的怀疑和恐惧，所有战争的痛苦——都消失了。你的脑海里会只有我的声音，你会像救赎一样紧紧抓住它。

The side of his thumb brushed against her outer thigh and she jumped, blushing when a smirk flitted over his face. "You'd have clung to me if I'd wanted it."
他的拇指侧面擦过她的大腿外侧，她跳了起来，当他的脸上闪过一丝得意的笑容时，她脸红了。“如果我想要的话，你会紧紧抓住我。”

" Stop it," Hermione said again, enunciating her ‘t’s with such force she was amazed she didn’t spray him with spit. She didn't want to hear any more and yet there was a portion of her brain that was whining like a Geiger counter every time he brushed against her. If he touched her properly would it stop? Or would she just combust? The latter felt more likely in the moment.
“住手，”赫敏又说了一遍，用力地说出她的't's“，她很惊讶她没有用唾液喷他。她不想再听到了，但每次他擦过她时，她大脑的一部分都会像盖革计数器一样呜呜作响。如果他正确地触摸她，它会停止吗？还是她会燃烧起来？后者在那一刻感觉更有可能。

"What's the matter?” he asked with a mocking pout. “Have you finally asked a question and found you didn't want the answer as much as you thought?"
“怎么了？” 他嘲讽地撅着嘴问。“你终于问了一个问题，发现你并不像你想象的那么想要答案吗？”

"You're just trying to upset me."
“你只是想让我不高兴。”

"Am I? Or have you simply forgotten to whom you are talking?" he asked, angling his arms to flash his own scarred forearm at her from under his rolled up shirtsleeves. "What makes you so sure I wouldn’t have done that to you?"
“是吗？还是你只是忘记了你在和谁说话？“他问道，双臂倾斜，从卷起的衬衫袖子下向她展示自己伤痕累累的前臂。“你为什么这么确定我不会对你那样做？”

Hermione said nothing, her eyes fixed on the Dark Mark. It had defined him for a long time and he let it. He called the self a fragile thing. Maybe his was fragile, she thought, built as it was on an unsteady foundation of inherited values and uncompromising, unrealistic standards. Hers was not. She’d created it herself. She had forged it in the space that she occupied between the Muggle and magical worlds. More than once, through the war and in its aftermath, Hermione had doubted how well she knew and understood the Wizarding world but she’d never doubted herself. Ever. She couldn’t afford to.
赫敏什么也没说，她的眼睛盯着黑暗标记。它已经定义了他很长一段时间，他接受了它。他称自我为脆弱的东西。也许他的婚姻是脆弱的，她想，是建立在继承的价值观和不妥协、不切实际的标准所建立的不稳定基础上的。她的不是。这是她自己创造的。她在麻瓜和魔法世界之间占据的空间里锻造了它。不止一次，在战争和战争的后果中，赫敏怀疑自己对魔法世界的了解和理解程度如何，但她从未怀疑过自己。曾。她负担不起。

"I would have done it without a second thought,” he continued. “We needed the information you had for the Dark Lord because our lives were at stake. I would have done anything to you if it meant saving my family. Nothing’s drastic when it comes to protecting the ones you love, isn’t that right?"
“我会毫不犹豫地这样做，”他继续说道。“我们需要你给黑魔王的信息，因为我们的生命危在旦夕。如果这意味着拯救我的家人，我愿意对你做任何事情。在保护你所爱的人方面，没有什么大事是激烈的，不是吗？

Her eyes flicked to his and her jaw jutted in a challenge. "Then why didn’t you?"
她的眼睛瞥向他，下巴挑衅地突出来。“那你为什么不呢？”

A faint frown creased his brow. That wasn't what he'd anticipated. "What?"
他微微皱起眉头。这出乎他的意料。“什么？”

"Why," Hermione said, leaning her upper body forward so that her face came even closer to his, "if you’d have done anything as you say, didn’t you do it? Why did you leave it to her ?"
“为什么，”赫敏说，把她的上半身向前倾，让她的脸更贴近他的脸，“如果你真的按照你说的去做，你不是吗？你为什么把它留给她呢？

Lucius lifted his hands from the table and straightened up to raise his face above hers, unsettled by her physical closeness when it wasn't instigated by him. "I didn’t have a wand."
卢修斯从桌子上抬起双手，直起身来，把脸抬到她的脸上，他对她的身体亲密感到不安，因为这不是他的怂恿。“我没有魔杖。”

"What happened to it?"
“怎么了？”

He narrowed his eyes, his nostrils flaring. "It was taken by the Dark Lord and destroyed in his pursuit of Potter."
他眯起眼睛，鼻孔张开。“它被黑魔王拿走了，并在他追捕波特的过程中被毁了。”

Hermione stared, absorbing this new information. He'd given up his wand even before he'd been caught. He'd been separated from it even longer than she'd thought.
赫敏盯着他，吸收着这些新信息。他甚至在被抓住之前就已经放弃了他的魔杖。他与它分离的时间比她想象的还要长。

"Is that why you never fought in the end?" she asked, mentally raking through her notes. "In your trial they talked about that as though it was to your credit when actually it was just because you didn’t have a wand ?"
“这就是你最后从来没有打过架的原因吗？”她问道，在心里翻阅着她的笔记。“在你的审判中，他们谈论这件事，好像这是你的功劳，而实际上只是因为你没有魔杖？”

"I didn’t care about the stupid war in the end," he snapped. "I didn't care about anything except Draco. I was almost the man who ended a thousand year line."
“我最终不在乎这场愚蠢的战争，”他厉声说。“除了 Draco，我什么都不在乎。我几乎是结束了一千年线的人。

“You don’t mean that.”
“你不是那个意思。”

“You don’t get to tell me what I do and do not mean, Miss Granger. Perhaps you have deluded yourself into thinking that you know anything about me but you’re wrong.”
“你不能告诉我我做什么，什么不是什么意思，格兰杰小姐。也许你自欺欺人地认为你对我一无所知，但你错了。

“I know enough about you to say I don’t believe that’s truly how you view what happened to your son,” Hermione said, an angry waver in her voice. “After everything you’ve told me, I don’t."
“我对你了解得够多了，我不相信你真的是这样看待发生在你儿子身上的事情的，”赫敏说，她的声音里带着愤怒的颤抖。“你跟我说了什么，我就不说了。”

"I don't care what you think," he snapped. "Of me or the things I've done."
“我不在乎你怎么想，”他厉声说。“关于我或我做过的事情。”

"Then why pretend? Why are you really trying to affect that kind of grand coldness – pretend he’s just an heir to you –  when you've already made it clear to me how much you love Draco?"
“那为什么要假装呢？你为什么真的要影响那种大冷淡——假装他只是你的继承人——而你已经向我表明了你有多爱德拉科？

His eyes searched her angry face. “I prefer the grand, cold view to the more granular view, Miss Granger.”
他的眼睛扫视着她愤怒的脸。“我更喜欢宏大、冷酷的视角，而不是更细致的视角，格兰杰小姐。”

“Which is?”
“哪个是？”

“That I was the man who almost killed his own son.”
“我就是那个差点杀了他自己儿子的人。”

“You almost killed a lot of people,” Hermione replied quietly, almost as though she was telling herself that as much as him. 
“你差点杀了很多人，”赫敏轻声回答，几乎就像她和他一样在告诉自己。

“Yourself included, hm?” he said, with a bitter, angry twist of his mouth. “Knowing that, I ask again: why do you find it so hard to believe that I would, without hesitation, have had you on your knees in front of me, begging me to show you your proper place?”
“包括你自己，嗯？” 他说，嘴里带着苦涩和愤怒的扭动。“知道了，我再问一遍：为什么你觉得这么难相信我会毫不犹豫地让你跪在我面前，恳求我告诉你你合适的位置？”

Slap .
打。

Lifting her hand hadn’t been a conscious action. She didn’t even feel it as her palm connected with his face. It was only the stinging across her fingers and the faint pink mark appearing on his cheek in the aftermath that made her realise that, yes, she had actually slapped him. Clenching her hand into a regretful fist, Hermione breathed hard through her nose, her chest heaving, as she waited for his reaction. Against her expectations, however, he didn’t look angry at all. If anything, he appeared almost satisfied. That concerned her more.  
抬起她的手并不是一个有意识的动作。当她的手掌碰到他的脸时，她甚至没有感觉到。只是她手指上的刺痛和他脸颊上出现的淡淡的粉红色印记，才让她意识到，是的，她真的打了他一巴掌。赫敏遗憾地握紧了手，用鼻子用力呼吸，胸口起伏，等待他的反应。然而，出乎她意料的是，他看起来一点也不生气。如果有什么不同的话，他看起来几乎是满意的。这让她更担心。

“Did that make you feel better, Miss Granger?”
“那让你感觉好些了吗，格兰杰小姐？”

“No.” The shake of her head was slow after her words. Her truthful words. She felt worse than she had in months and there was a painful stinging in her nose that contained the threat of angry tears. 
“不。”她的话后，缓慢地摇了摇头。她诚实的话语。她感觉比几个月前都糟糕，鼻子里有一阵痛苦的刺痛，里面有愤怒的眼泪威胁。

“Perhaps you'd like to try again.”
“也许你想再试一次。”

There was something taut in the air, something Hermione couldn’t quite identify but her gut told her it was dangerous. Her eyes searched Malfoy’s and she found they were gleaming, as though he had relished her outburst. 
空气中有什么东西绷紧了，赫敏不太清楚，但她的直觉告诉她这很危险。她的眼睛扫视着马尔福的眼睛，发现它们闪闪发光，仿佛他很享受她的爆发。

“No.”
“不。”

“No?” he asked, his tone rising derisively. “How else are you supposed to show me how much you hate me?”
“没有？” 他问道，语气里带着嘲讽。“不然你怎么能向我表明你有多恨我？”

“I don't hate you,” she said, her voice dazed. He was trying to upset her. Going to quite a lot of effort to do it, too. After all the pleasantness that had developed between them, he was pushing back violently. Coward , she thought.
“我不恨你，”她说，她的声音有些茫然。他想让她难过。也要付出相当大的努力来做到这一点。在他们之间产生了所有的愉快之后，他猛烈地反击。 懦夫，她想。

“Don't. Lie,” he said, barely parting his lips to let the words through. 
“不要。撒谎，“他说，勉强张开嘴唇让这些话说出来。

“I don't hate you nearly as much as you hate yourself.”
“我恨你，也不像你恨自己。”

A heavy silence fell and then Malfoy huffed out a single humourless laugh. Hermione watched him lower his face into his hands, dragging them down until his fingertips sat in the corners of his eyes.
一阵沉重的沉默，然后马尔福发出了一声毫无幽默感的笑声。赫敏看着他把脸埋进手里，把脸往下拖，直到指尖停在眼角。

"You feel guilty, Mr Malfoy. About your son."
“你感到内疚，马尔福先生。关于你的儿子。

He glared at her over his fingertips. "What a perceptive girl you think you are, Miss Granger. So certain, too."
他用指尖瞪着她。“你觉得你是个多么有洞察力的女孩，格兰杰小姐。也很确定。

"Do you feel guilty about me? Or anyone else?"
“你对我感到内疚吗？还是其他任何人？

He didn't respond to that, instead planting his hands on his hips and rolling his head back so that his nose was directed at the glass roof. Hermione heard him take in a slow, deep breath. His eyes were probably closed.
他没有回应，而是把手放在臀部上，把头向后仰，这样他的鼻子就对准了玻璃屋顶。赫敏听到他缓缓地深吸了一口气。他的眼睛可能是闭着的。

"You don't know how to deal with it. It's why you're pushing everyone out. You're trying to do it with your son and you succeeded with your wife. You think it's easier if everyone hates you."
“你不知道该怎么处理。这就是你把所有人都赶出去的原因。你试图和你的儿子一起做这件事，你和你的妻子成功了。你觉得如果每个人都讨厌你，那就容易多了。

"Isn't it?" he asked, his face still directed upwards.
“不是吗？” 他问道，他的脸仍然向上。

"I don't hate you."
“我不恨你。”

"Yes, you’ve said that," he said, dropping his head to throw her a look that bordered on accusatory. 
“是的，你说过了，”他说，低下头，向她投来一个近乎指责的眼神。

"I probably should," she said, more to herself than to him. Everyone she knew would tell her she should. 
“我也许应该，”她说，与其说是对他，不如说是对自己。她认识的每个人都会告诉她应该这样做。

"Then why won 't you?"
“那你为什么不呢？”

"I don't want to." As she said it, Hermione knew it was true. At some point, and she didn’t know exactly when, she’d stopped hating him and she didn’t really want to start again. "Not anymore. Hating you wouldn't make me any happier, even if I would be well within my rights to do it."
“我不想。”当她说这句话时，赫敏知道这是真的。在某个时候，她不知道确切的时间，她已经不再讨厌他了，她真的不想重新开始。“现在不会了。恨你不会让我更快乐，即使我完全有权利这样做。

"What if I want you to hate me?"
“如果我想让你恨我怎么办？”

"Why?"
“为什么？”

"Because it might finally stop you pushing in where you're not wanted."
“因为它可能最终会阻止你推到你不想要的地方。”

Not because he hated her . There was a half-heartedness to his glare that encouraged Hermione to slide from the workbench onto her feet. He retreated a step to give her space but not a great deal, so she was forced to crane her neck to look up at him. He stayed very close for a man so insistent that he wanted her far away.
不是因为他恨她。他的目光中带着一种半心半意的神情，鼓励赫敏从工作台上滑到她的脚上。他后退了一步，给她留出空间，但不是很大，所以她被迫伸长脖子抬头看他。他离得非常近，因为这个男人如此执着，以至于他想让她离得很远。

"You said you were on a narrow path under Voldemort. He's dead now—definitely this time—so why are you acting like you're still on it? You talk about the fragility of the self so why not break it entirely and forge something new? Something stronger?”
“你说你在伏地魔手下走的是一条狭窄的道路。他现在已经死了——肯定是这次——那么你为什么表现得像你还在吃呢？你谈到了自我的脆弱性，那么为什么不完全打破它并打造新的东西呢？更强大的东西？

Hesitantly, Hermione reached out to his left forearm hanging by his side. She brushed the backs of her fore and middle fingers against the soft, inner part of his arm that bore the Dark Mark, observing the slight tremor that passed through him. "You don't have to be this anymore. Not if you don't want to be."
赫敏犹豫了一下，伸手摸了伸手去拿挂在他身边的左前臂。她用食指和中指的背拂过他手臂上带有黑暗印记的柔软内侧，观察着他身上的轻微颤抖。“你不必再这样了。如果你不想的话，就不要。

"It's not that simple, Miss Granger."
“没那么简单，格兰杰小姐。”

"It's not that complicated either. Stop drawing your self-worth from things that exist outside of yourself. Stop thinking about yourself as a Pure-blood or a Malfoy or anything like that and start showing who you are through the things that you do. Our actions show us more clearly than anything else."
“这也不复杂。停止从存在于你之外的事物中汲取自我价值。不要再把自己看作是纯血统或马尔福或类似的东西，开始通过你做的事情来展示你是谁。我们的行动比其他任何事情都更清楚地表明我们。

"Yes, your insistence on discussing this, for instance, shows me just how irritating you truly are."
“是的，例如，你坚持讨论这件事，向我展示了你到底有多烦人。”

"You chose to try to upset me today," Hermione pressed on past his pathetic attempt to deter her, "but you also chose to help me in your library rather than leave me. I'd encourage you to lean towards the latter instinct more regularly." 
“你今天选择让我难过，”赫敏压制住了他可怜的阻止尝试，“但你也选择在你的图书馆里帮助我，而不是离开我。我鼓励你更经常地倾向于后一种直觉。

"Of course you would,” he said venomously. “In case you haven't noticed, my world is currently very small and will continue to be so for the next...oh, twelve years, give or take a few weeks. What I choose to do hardly matters."
“你当然会，”他恶毒地说。“如果你没有注意到，我的世界目前非常小，明年将继续如此......哦，十二年了，或多或少几周。我选择做什么几乎无关紧要。

"It matters to me. I told Kingsley that I'll personally advocate for a reduction in your sentence to make sure it happens." Malfoy blinked, taken aback by the revelation, and Hermione nodded firmly. "I'll stick to my word because thus far you've stuck to yours. I want you to have another chance and I hope you'll see it as an opportunity."
“这对我来说很重要。我告诉金斯利，我会亲自倡导减轻你的刑期，以确保它发生。马尔福眨了眨眼，被这个发现吓了一跳，赫敏坚定地点了点头。“我会信守诺言，因为到目前为止你一直信守诺言。我希望你有另一个机会，我希望你能把它看作是一个机会。

"To do what , exactly?" 
“到底做什么？”

"To look outwards and find a way to deal with your guilt that isn't just allowing it to consume you."
“向外看，找到一种方法来处理你的内疚感，而不仅仅是让它吞噬你。”

Hermione lifted a hand to his chest, hovering only a moment before she pressed it flat, pushing him back to give herself some more space. The rapid beat of his heart was faint but perceptible through the thin layer of his shirt and she met his eyes before he stepped out of her reach. 
赫敏将一只手抬到他的胸前，在她把它压平之前只悬停了一会儿，把他往后推，给自己更多的空间。他心跳的急促虽然微弱，但透过他薄薄的衬衫可以察觉到，在他走出她的手之前，她与他的眼睛相遇。

"Hatred is easy, Mr Malfoy," she said, her hand lingering in the air between them before she let it fall. "But I’d be amazed if you haven’t noticed by now that it doesn't ever get you very much in return. You don't strike me as a man that would do something for nothing."
“仇恨很容易，马尔福先生，”她说，她的手在他们之间的空气中徘徊，然后放下手来。“但如果你现在还没有注意到，它不会给你带来多少回报，我会感到惊讶。你不会觉得我是一个不劳而获的人。

Lucius looked at the space where her hand had been, his own hands clenching and unclenching by his sides. With a suddenness that made Hermione sharply inhale and hold her breath, he closed the space between them, forcing her lower back against the workbench, his hips just touching hers.
卢修斯看着她手所在的空间，他自己的手在他的身体两侧紧握又松开。突然间，赫敏猛地吸了一口气，屏住了呼吸，他拉近了他们之间的空间，迫使她的下背部靠在工作台上，他的臀部刚好碰到她的臀部。

"Forgive me, Miss Granger, if I find your advocacy of looking to the future hard to swallow when you spend your days here, with me, dredging up the past."
“请原谅我，格兰杰小姐，如果你在这里度过你的日子，和我一起，挖掘过去的时候，你对未来的倡导让人难以接受。”

Hermione swallowed, looking up into his angry eyes and shook her head weakly. Abruptly, Malfoy turned on his heel and marched out of the greenhouse without another word. Hermione heard the door slam, the glass rattling, and sighed, her shoulders slumping as she looked over at her still-recording Wheezebox. She wasn’t sure that was a conversation she’d ever want to listen to again.
赫敏咽了口口水，抬头看着他愤怒的眼睛，虚弱地摇了摇头。突然，马尔福转过身来，一言不发地走出了温室。赫敏听到门砰的一声，玻璃嘎嘎作响，叹了口气，她的肩膀耷拉着，看着她那仍在录音的喘息器。她不确定这是一场她是否还想再听一遍的对话。

Chapter 22
第二十二章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius do some thinking and it results in some revelations and a surprise
赫敏和卢修斯做了一些思考，结果得到了一些启示和一个惊喜

Chapter Notes
章节注释

I don't even know how to respond to the wonderful, lovely comments last chapter except to say THANK YOU! Glad you're all here for the tension. I was kicking my legs as I wrote it.
我什至不知道如何回应上一章精彩、可爱的评论，只能说声谢谢！很高兴你们都在这里缓解紧张。我一边写一边踢着腿。

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾June 29th
6 月 29 日

Lucius Malfoy stabbed his fork into his scrambled eggs, a dark expression on his face. It was Thursday. Granger visited on Thursdays. 
卢修斯·马尔福用叉子刺进了他的炒鸡蛋里，脸上露出阴沉的表情。那天是星期四。格兰杰周四来访。

“If you don’t like your eggs just don’t eat them, father,” Draco chided from across the table. “There’s no need for violence at the breakfast table.”
“如果你不喜欢你的鸡蛋，就别吃它们，爸爸，”德拉科在桌子对面斥责道。“早餐桌上没有必要使用暴力。”

“Shut up, Draco,” Lucius muttered, actually somewhat grateful to his son for interrupting his thoughts. 
“闭嘴，德拉科，”卢修斯咕哝道，实际上是有点感谢他的儿子打断了他的思绪。

For the first time in years, he was regularly eating his meals with Draco and Astoria. It was almost pleasant but it had been a long week and he was irritable. Granger had said he was trying to push his son out so he was going to show her that she was wrong. Even though she was right. She was always fucking right. Or she thought she was. 
多年来，他第一次定期与德拉科和阿斯托利亚一起吃饭。这几乎是愉快的，但这是漫长的一周，他很烦躁。格兰杰说他试图把他的儿子赶出去，这样他就要让她知道她错了。即使她是对的。她总是他妈的对。或者她认为她是。

After their little encounter the previous week, he’d told Astoria he didn’t want to know when Granger was in the library. He’d endeavoured to avoid her completely, locking himself in his study or the greenhouse and hoping against hope that she wouldn’t seek him out. She hadn’t. And a part of him—a stupid, spineless, pathetic part—had been disappointed by that. 
在上周他们短暂的相遇之后，他告诉阿斯托利亚，他不想知道格兰杰什么时候在图书馆里。他努力完全避开她，把自己锁在书房或温室里，希望她不会找到他。她没有。而他的一部分——一个愚蠢的、没有骨气的、可悲的那一部分——已经为此感到失望了。

Where did she get off, though? Pushing and pushing and pushing her way into his life like a fucking emotional Reducto and then, without a word, just stopping? Disappearing? He thought he’d been good at torture but she was certainly teaching him a thing or two.
不过，她是从哪里下来的呢？像一个该死的情绪化的 Reducto 一样推啊推、推、推，闯进他的生活，然后，一言不发，就停下来了？消失？他认为他很擅长折磨，但她肯定是在教他一两件事。

Well, she'd be back at the manor within a few hours anyway and when she arrived she'd have to look him in the face again. Lucius' fork hovered threateningly over his eggs as he considered the approaching meeting. He was framing it as though she should have trouble looking at him. It was the other way around. 
好吧，反正她几个小时内就会回到庄园，当她到达时，她得再看一眼他的脸。卢修斯的叉子威胁性地悬在他的鸡蛋上，他思考着即将到来的会议。他把这句话说得好像她看他时应该很麻烦。但情况正好相反。

The fork descended with force and missed the eggs entirely, screeching across his plate. He barely heard it. 
叉子用力下降，完全错过了鸡蛋，在他的盘子里发出尖锐的声音。他几乎没听见。

"Father!"
“爸爸！”

She'd told him she still dreamed about what happened to her, the way he still dreamed about what happened to his family, and instead of reaching across that connection he'd just…
她告诉他，她仍然梦见发生在她身上的事情，他仍然梦见他家人发生的事情，他没有跨越那种联系，而是......

Blinking away the memory of her large, trusting eyes as he'd held her scarred arm in his hand, he pondered the merits of fried mushrooms for stabbing rather than eggs. Smaller surface area but a more satisfyingly fleshy solidity. 
当他用手握住她伤痕累累的手臂时，他眨了眨眼，抹去了她那双大而信任的眼睛的记忆，他思考着炸蘑菇比鸡蛋更能刺伤。较小的表面积，但更令人满意的肉质固体。

Of course, she'd seen right through his attempt to upset her. He'd weaved together a combination of things that seemed likely to rile and scare her and used them ruthlessly because he’d decided it was just easier if she hated him like everyone else. Hatred doesn’t get you much, she’d said, patently oblivious to the fact that it had actually once given his life a great deal of simplicity. 
当然，她已经看穿了他试图惹她不安的企图。他把一些看起来可能会激怒和吓唬她的东西编织在一起，并无情地使用它们，因为他认为如果她像其他人一样讨厌他，那就更容易了。憎恨对你没有多大好处，她说，显然忘记了它实际上曾经给他的生活带来了许多简单。

Lucius sighed through his nose and lowered his fork to the table, his breakfast demolished but uneaten. She still refused to hate him. After all that, she'd suggested she had some kind of absurd faith in him. She was going to personally advocate for him to give him a chance. Look outwards, she'd said. Consider his future in a world he hadn't actually ever seriously entertained seeing again.
卢修斯从鼻子里叹了口气，把叉子放到桌子上，他的早餐被毁了，但还没有吃完。她仍然拒绝恨他。毕竟，她暗示她对他有某种荒谬的信仰。她打算亲自为他辩护，给他一个机会。她曾说过，要向外看。想想他的未来，在一个他实际上从未真正喜欢再看到的世界里。

Consider his actions. And their effects.
想想他的行为。以及它们的影响。

He swallowed. Objectively he knew what the right action was in this instance. An apology. He'd been inappropriate. He actually hadn't anticipated she'd let him get as close as she had. She'd always been on the edgy side when their meetings first started but obviously, at some point, proximity and even touch had become acceptable. When exactly did that happen? It was all so unclear. Every meeting blended in his head, just becoming a blur of her .
他咽了口口水。客观地说，他知道在这种情况下什么是正确的行动。道歉。他太不合适了。他其实没想到她会让他像她一样靠近。当他们的会议刚开始时，她一直很前卫，但显然，在某个时候，接近甚至触摸已经变得可以接受。这究竟是什么时候发生的？一切都是那么不清楚。每一次会面都混在他的脑海中，只是变成了她的模糊。

He detested inexactitude; it led to mistakes. He detested those even more because he'd made quite enough of them. Clearing his throat, Lucius glanced up in the direction of his son, Granger’s face still looming in his mind.
他讨厌不精确;它导致了错误。他更讨厌那些，因为他已经受够了。清了清嗓子，卢修斯抬头看了一眼儿子的方向，格兰杰的脸仍然在他的脑海中若隐若现。

"Draco, would you like to join me on my walk with Cato this afternoon?"
“德拉科，你愿意今天下午和我一起和卡托一起散步吗？”

Across the breakfast table, past the floral centrepiece, the Daily Prophet that had been covering his son's face flopped in half, revealing a startled expression. 
在早餐桌对面，经过鲜花中央，一直遮住儿子脸的《预言家日报》瘫成两半，露出惊讶的表情。

"Of – of course."
“当然。”

"Good. Be ready by 12.45, please."
“很好。请在 12.45 之前准备好。

Draco nodded several times before saying, "Yes. Yes, I will."
德拉科点了好几次头，然后说，“是的。是的，我会的。

Depositing his napkin on the table, Lucius rose from his seat with a stately dignity and quietly exited the room. Half-rising in his seat, Draco peered over the centrepiece at his father's barely-touched breakfast and then at the door through which he had just exited. Something had ruffled Lucius Malfoy.
卢修斯把餐巾纸放在桌子上，庄重地从座位上站起来，悄悄地走出了房间。德拉科半站着坐在座位上，从中央看了一眼他父亲几乎没碰过的早餐，然后又看了看他刚刚走出去的门。卢修斯·马尔福有些生气了。

Lucius Malfoy's hands were haunting Hermione's dreams. 
卢修斯·马尔福的手在赫敏的梦中萦绕。

Ripping off a chunk of toast with her teeth, Hermione scowled at the bright summer sky outside of her kitchen window with tired eyes. She could sit at the kitchen table now – it was clear enough as most of her things were at Malfoy Manor. Odd that when the table had been at its messiest, her life had been at its most simple. 
赫敏用牙齿撕下一大块吐司，疲惫的眼睛看着厨房窗外明亮的夏日天空。她现在可以坐在厨房的桌子旁了——这已经足够清楚了，因为她的大部分东西都在马尔福庄园。奇怪的是，当桌子最混乱的时候，她的生活却是最简单的。

The dreams had come out of nowhere. Well, not nowhere actually. That was a complete lie. They'd started quite specifically after her meeting with him in the greenhouse. After he'd touched her. Lying felt better than acknowledging that.
梦想不知从何而来。嗯，实际上并非没有。那是一个彻头彻尾的谎言。他们是在她在温室里与他会面后开始的。在他触摸了她之后。撒谎感觉比承认这一点要好。

The first dream, the night following their encounter, Hermione had been almost amused when she'd woken up. If that was her brain's way of managing the stress of the day, she'd thought, that was fine. Strange but fine. But almost a week had passed—their next meeting was approaching—and the dreams hadn't stopped. 
第一个梦，在他们相遇后的那个晚上，赫敏醒来时几乎被逗乐了。如果这是她的大脑管理一天压力的方式，她想，那很好。奇怪但很好。但差不多一个星期过去了——他们的下一次会面即将到来——梦想并没有停止。

They tended to run along similar lines; her sitting on that workbench in the greenhouse, Malfoy sliding his hands up her legs, his hands soft on her bare skin. Heat throbbing between her legs, Hermione would part them for some relief and he would step closer, his hands rising in line with her heart rate. 
他们往往沿着类似的路线进行;她坐在温室的工作台上，马尔福的手顺着她的腿滑上去，他的手柔软地抚摸着她裸露的皮肤。热气在她的双腿之间跳动，赫敏会分开它们以缓解一些压力，他会走近一些，他的手随着她的心跳而上升。

In her most recent dream—the one that had woken her in the early hours of that morning in a cold sweat—his hands had spanned the width of her legs as they'd risen, pushing up the hem of her dress. When he'd reached the apex of her thighs, he'd run the tips of his fingers along the bottom edge of her knickers and shifted one thumb to brush over her centre through the material, a knowing smirk on his face as she'd whimpered at the contact. Every time she blinked she could see that smirk.
在她最近的一个梦中——那个在凌晨让她惊醒的那个冷汗——他的手已经跨过了她的双腿，当它们抬起时，他把她的裙子的下摆推了上去。当他到达她的大腿根部时，他用指尖沿着她的内裤底部边缘滑过，然后用一个拇指穿过材料擦过她的中心，当她对这种接触呜咽时，他的脸上露出了会心的笑容。每次她眨眼时，她都能看到那种得意的笑容。

Hermione swallowed a Snitch-sized lump in her throat that had nothing to do with her inadequately buttered toast. Every time she’d thought about him over the week, that fluttering sensation she got in her lower abdomen—the one that made her want to wriggle around or run very fast—would start. She bloody well knew what that feeling was and it could fuck off.
赫敏在喉咙里吞下了一个飞贼大小的肿块，这与她没有充分涂黄油的吐司无关。这周她每次想起他，下腹部的那种颤动感——让她想扭动或跑得很快的感觉——就会开始。她非常清楚那种感觉是什么，而且它可能会他妈的。

Hermione wasn't exactly a stranger to inappropriate dreams; she'd had a few growing up. One about Ron's older brother, Bill, in the summer before her fourth year that had left her scarlet and completely mute at the breakfast table the next morning. When he'd asked her to pass the sugar, she'd considered playing dead just to avoid further interaction. 
赫敏对不合时宜的梦并不陌生;她在成长过程中经历过几次。一个是关于 Ron 的哥哥 Bill，在她四年级之前的夏天，第二天早上在早餐桌上让她脸色绯红，完全哑口无言。当他让她递糖时，她曾考虑装死，只是为了避免进一步的互动。

One about Remus had left her utterly bewildered because she'd never looked at him like that until he'd caught her when she'd fallen while cleaning a bookshelf in Grimmauld Place. He’d been unexpectedly strong under his loose-fitting clothes, she remembered, and it had flustered her.
关于莱姆斯的一段话让她完全困惑，因为她从来没有那样看过他，直到她在格里莫广场打扫书架时摔倒时被他抓住。她记得，他在宽松的衣服下出乎意料地强壮，这让她感到慌乱。

Even in her fifth year, she'd had a dream about Snape that had rendered her unable to raise her hand in class for a week. The fact that Snape had seemed pleased by her behaviour had made that particular one even worse; she'd suffered twofold.
即使在她五年级的时候，她也做了一个关于斯内普的梦，这让她一个星期都无法在课堂上举手。斯内普似乎对她的行为感到满意的事实使那个特别的时刻变得更糟;她遭受了双重痛苦。

But Lucius Malfoy was a new level of inappropriate. Because finding Lucius Malfoy attractive was inconvenient. Monstrously inconvenient. Monstrous generally. And...wrong. So wrong. For so many reasons. An endless number, really. Worse, the dreams about him were not one-offs. 
但卢修斯·马尔福（Lucius Malfoy）的不合适程度达到了一个新的水平。因为觉得卢修斯·马尔福有吸引力很不方便。非常不方便。一般来说是可怕的。和。。。错。 大错特错。原因有很多。真的，一个无穷无尽的数字。更糟糕的是，关于他的梦不是一次性的。

"Messed up," Hermione grumbled, vigorously rubbing her hands free of toast crumbs and pushing her plate away. 
“搞砸了，”赫敏抱怨道，用力揉搓手上的吐司碎屑，把盘子推开。

As she’d lain in bed that morning, blinking up at the ceiling and trying to ignore the telling slickness that had developed between her legs, she’d tried to break it down for herself. To rationalise. Her brain was still her ally, surely. It was not betraying her.
那天早上，她躺在床上，眨着眼睛看着天花板，试图忽略两腿之间形成的明显光滑，她试图为自己打破它。合理化。当然，她的大脑仍然是她的盟友。这不是背叛她。

To her, Lucius Malfoy had sort of become two people. There was the former Death Eater: cold, selfish, self-aggrandising to a delusional degree, capable of great cruelty. Then there was also the wizard she’d been learning more about: intelligent, sometimes actually quite amusing, fiercely protective and loving. Capable of feeling…regret? Maybe even remorse?
对她来说，卢修斯·马尔福已经变成了两个人。还有那个曾经的食死徒：冷酷、自私、自我膨胀到妄想的程度，能够做出极其残忍的手段。然后还有她一直在更多地了解的巫师：聪明，有时实际上很有趣，极度保护和充满爱心。能够感觉到......后悔？也许甚至是懊悔？

But then …Hermione sighed, leaning her elbow on the table before rubbing a hand over her tired eyes. All those things didn’t make him two people. She couldn’t whistle a merry tune, pick the parts she liked and call them a person. He was just one complicated disaster of a man. A man who seemed to have stuck a magnet to his moral compass at the age of 14 and decided life was easier to navigate that way. Perhaps it had been for a while. Until he’d backed himself into a corner with no way to get out.
但随后......赫敏叹了口气，将手肘靠在桌子上，然后用一只手揉了揉她疲惫的眼睛。所有这些事情并没有使他成为两个人。她不能吹出欢快的曲调，挑选她喜欢的部分并称它们为人。他只是一个复杂的人。一个似乎在 14 岁时就把磁铁贴在他的道德指南针上，并决定生活更容易走这条路的人。也许已经有一段时间了。直到他把自己逼到一个没有办法出去的角落里。

Hermione reached for her coffee—extra strong—and blew on it, watching the steam flutter away from her. The blood purity stuff had, at least, dried up over the course of their acquaintance. And she liked sparring with him. 
赫敏伸手拿起她的咖啡——特别浓的咖啡——吹了一口气，看着蒸汽从她身上飘走。至少，在他们相识的过程中，血液纯度的东西已经干涸了。她喜欢和他对练。

The thing that Hermione actually thought she liked the most, though, was the way he engaged with her. She never would have thought him capable of it at the start of their meetings but something had shifted. He took her seriously and that...that was oddly gratifying. I read your notes. She still had that tiny letter. It had felt too important to discard. 
不过，赫敏实际上认为她最喜欢的是他与她互动的方式。在他们见面之初，她从来没有想过他有能力，但有些事情已经发生了变化。他很认真地对待她，而且......这真是奇怪的令人满意。 我读了你的笔记。 她还带着那封小信。它感觉太重要了，不能丢弃。

Hermione thoughtfully brushed her finger across a hard toast crumb that had landed on the table. It probably didn’t hurt that he was – maybe, perhaps, possibly, slightly, a tiny bit – handsome. She pressed her finger down on the crumb, feeling its sharp point dig into the soft pad of her forefinger. 
赫敏若有所思地用手指拂过落在桌子上的坚硬的吐司碎屑。他英俊可能并没有什么坏处——也许，也许，可能，稍微，一点点。她用手指压在面包屑上，感觉到它锋利的尖端深深地钻进了她食指的柔软垫子里。

Hermione knew she was not immune to the appeal of a pretty face but, after Lockhart, she had sworn to herself that she would never again allow the outside of a person to cloud her view of the inside. A part of her had always known Lucius Malfoy was an attractive man; he was tall, broad-shouldered, well-dressed, well-spoken, with a sharp jaw and, when he wanted, a pleasant smile. She had, however, found it easy to push all of those things aside because she’d hated him so much. 
赫敏知道她不能免于一张漂亮脸蛋的吸引力，但是，在洛哈特之后，她对自己发誓，她再也不会让一个人的外表蒙蔽了她对内在的看法。她的一部分一直都知道卢修斯·马尔福是一个有魅力的男人;他身材高大，肩膀宽阔，衣着得体，口齿伶俐，下巴尖尖的，想笑的时候，他会露出愉快的笑容。然而，她发现很容易把所有这些事情都放在一边，因为她太恨他了。

But now she didn’t hate him. In fact, there were parts of him she quite liked and they made it unfortunately easy for her to allow her eyes to linger on his hands, or his eyes, or – Hermione groaned as though wounded when her dream flashed into her mind again with the persistent clarity of an embarrassing memory.
但现在她不再恨他了。事实上，他身上有她相当喜欢的部分，不幸的是，这些部分让她很容易让她的眼睛在他的手上徘徊，或者他的眼睛，或者——当赫敏的梦再次以尴尬记忆的持续清晰闪入她的脑海时，她呻吟着，仿佛受伤了。

So, maybe she did actually quite like Lucius Malfoy at times. That was why she was keeping to her word with Kingsley. That was why she hadn't just hexed Malfoy in the greenhouse when he'd been a prat. Maybe that was also why she was dreaming about him. Maybe it was that simple. If liking a man like him could ever really be considered simple.
所以，也许她有时确实很喜欢卢修斯·马尔福。这就是为什么她对金斯利信守诺言。这就是为什么她没有在马尔福还是个小孩子的时候就在温室里给他下咒。也许这也是她梦到他的原因。也许就是这么简单。如果喜欢像他这样的男人真的可以被认为是简单的。

Her reaction to him in the greenhouse had arisen out of the combination of his touch and voice. His hands were large and strong but soft. His voice could be sharp like cut glass but he could spin it into silk when he wanted to. There had been a sensuality in the whole thing that she had responded to. And continued to, clearly. 
她在温室里对他的反应是源于他的触摸和声音的结合。他的手又大又结实，但很柔软。他的声音可以像切割玻璃一样尖锐，但他可以在他想的时候把它纺成丝绸。她回应了整件事中都有一种性感。显然，他继续这样做。

Hermione was so occupied by her confusing feelings, she could barely find the mental space to be angry at him for what he'd said. He’d been determined to push her away for some reason. It was possible he was beginning to regret their meetings.
赫敏被她困惑的情绪占据了，她几乎找不到心理空间来对他说的话生气。出于某种原因，他决心要把她推开。他可能开始后悔他们的会面了。

He had accused her of dredging up the past, after all. Hermione shifted. Well, that she was doing but it wasn't all she wanted to do. Would she be out there advocating for him if her only aim was to rake him over the coals of his past?
毕竟，他指责她挖空了过去。赫敏动了动。嗯，她正在这样做，但这并不是她想做的全部。如果她的唯一目的是让他摆脱过去的困境，她会在那里为他辩护吗？

Or perhaps he’s also felt …Hermione stiffened in her seat, trying to run over all their interactions in her mind. All the meetings were sort of stuck together in her memory, like wet magazine pages. Shaking her head, she drank the last of her coffee. No, it was far more likely that he was having second thoughts about revealing his story and wanted to scare her off.
或者，也许他也感觉到......赫敏在座位上僵硬了起来，试图在脑海中回顾他们所有的互动。所有的会议都像湿漉漉的杂志页一样，在她的记忆中粘在一起。她摇了摇头，喝完了最后一杯咖啡。不，他更有可能是想再想说出他的故事，想吓跑她。

But the way he’d touched her. The way he’d gotten so close.
但是他抚摸她的方式。他如此接近的方式。

Perhaps you have deluded yourself into thinking that you know anything about me but you’re wrong. That was what he’d said, wasn’t it? Was she just delusional? It certainly felt that way.
也许你自欺欺人地认为你对我一无所知，但你错了。 他就是这么说的，不是吗？她只是妄想症吗？感觉确实是这样的。

Blinking rapidly, Hermione pushed herself to her feet and busied herself with clearing her dishes. Mindless tasks would provide a temporary reprieve.
赫敏迅速地眨了眨眼，站起身来，忙着收拾碗碟。无意识的任务会提供暂时的缓和。

After their meeting, she'd opted for avoidance. Any time Hermione had visited the manor to work, she hadn't stepped a foot over the threshold of the library. She strongly suspected he was avoiding her, too, because where she wouldn't stray from the library, he hadn't come near it. 
在他们见面后，她选择了逃避。每当赫敏来庄园工作时，她都没踏过图书馆的门槛。她强烈怀疑他也在躲避她，因为她不会离开图书馆的地方，他并没有靠近图书馆。

Unfortunately, their next meeting was mere hours away and Hermione couldn't really tell how it was going to go. From his side, anyway. She'd decided she was going to retreat into professionalism which, she was painfully aware, she had been increasingly lacking in her relationship with Lucius Malfoy. If she’d ever even shown it in the first place. 
不幸的是，他们的下一次见面只有几个小时了，赫敏真的不知道会怎么样。无论如何，从他这边来看。她决定要退回到职业化中去，她痛苦地意识到，她和卢修斯·马尔福的关系越来越缺乏。如果她一开始就表现出来的话。

All of her interviews had deepened her relationships with her subjects, that was true. They had strengthened her admiration for, and friendship with, Harry; she'd been able to better understand and sympathise with Ron's motivations for leaving them on the Horcrux hunt; she wanted to build a shrine to McGonagall; and years of intense dislike between her and Draco had started to disintegrate. It was an undeniably personal, intense experience between two people and those changed things. But none of her interviews had changed things quite like those she'd had with Lucius Malfoy. 
她所有的采访都加深了她与拍摄对象的关系，这是真的。他们加强了她对哈利的钦佩和友谊;她能够更好地理解和同情罗恩让他们去寻找魂器的动机;她想为麦格建造一座神殿;她和德拉科之间多年来的强烈厌恶已经开始瓦解。不可否认，这是两个人之间的一次个人化、强烈的经历，这些改变了事情。但她的采访都没有像她和卢修斯·马尔福那样改变事情。

After cleaning up her breakfast dishes and changing out of her pyjamas, Hermione attempted to occupy her mind by making another lemon cake to take to the Potters’ the next evening. Ginny was ready to give birth any day and she’d become very fractious when she didn’t have access to some kind of treat. 
在收拾完早餐盘子并换掉睡衣后，赫敏试图通过制作另一个柠檬蛋糕来占据她的注意力，第二天晚上带去波特家。金妮随时准备分娩，当她无法获得某种零食时，她会变得非常烦躁。

Just as she was measuring out the flour and approaching a place of relative calm, Hermione heard her name being called from the living room. She didn't even have time to remove her apron before Ron appeared in the doorway to her kitchen, struggling to catch his breath.
就在她称量面粉并接近一个相对平静的地方时，赫敏听到客厅里有人叫她的名字。她甚至还没来得及脱下围裙，罗恩就出现在她厨房的门口，挣扎着喘口气。

"Hermione!"
“赫敏！”

"What on earth… Ron ? Are you alright?" Hermione asked, whipping her apron over her head and rushing towards him with her arms outstretched, preparing to check him for injuries.
“这到底是什么......罗恩？你还好吗？赫敏问道，她把围裙甩到头上，伸出双臂冲向他，准备检查他有没有受伤。

"Baby!” he cried, grinning widely and throwing his arms wide. “Ginny and the baby! It’s coming!”
“宝贝！” 他喊道，咧嘴大笑，张开双臂。“金妮和婴儿！它来了！

"Oh my god," Hermione said, stopping in her tracks. "Where is she? Is she okay?"
“哦，我的上帝，”赫敏说，停下了脚步。“她在哪儿？她还好吗？

"She's fine. Harry’s with her at St. Mungo’s but I said I'd come get you. Come on." He waved his arms at her, herding her out of the kitchen and into her hallway. "Shoes on, shoes on!"
“她很好。哈利和她一起在圣芒戈，但我说我会来接你。来吧。他向她挥舞着手臂，把她赶出厨房，走进她的走廊。“穿鞋，穿鞋！”

Hermione laughed, pushing him back to create enough room for her to slip her trainers on. "Stop it! I can't tie them if you're hovering behind me."
赫敏笑了起来，把他往后推，为她腾出足够的空间来穿上她的运动鞋。“住手！如果你在我后面徘徊，我就不能把他们绑起来。

"There's no time for tying laces , Hermione. The baby is coming!"
“没时间系鞋带了，赫敏。宝宝要来了！

Bending over, Hermione threw him an incredulous look over her shoulder. "You know it doesn't just come straight out, right? Please tell me you know that by now. James took ages !"
赫敏弯下腰，难以置信地回头看了他一眼。“你知道它不会直接出来，对吧？请告诉我你现在已经知道了。詹姆斯花了很长时间！

"I feel like this one is going to be quick."
“我觉得这场比赛会很快。”

"Based on what?"
“基于什么？”

"Well, firstly I really want it to be.” Hermione scoffed, muttering something about how she was sure Ginny wanted that more, but Ron ignored her. “Besides, she's already been there the whole morning; I only just found out! Quite annoyed at Harry for not telling us sooner, to be honest, but it felt like the wrong time to say that."
“嗯，首先我真的希望它成为。”赫敏嘲笑着，嘟囔着说她怎么确定金妮想要更多，但罗恩没有理会她。“再说了，她已经在那里呆了一整个上午了;我才刚刚发现！老实说，我对哈利没有早点告诉我们感到非常生气，但感觉现在说这话的时间不对。

Snorting derisively, Hermione straightened up and held her arms out. "Right, I'm ready."
赫敏嘲讽地哼了一声，直起身来，伸出双臂。“好，我准备好了。”

Ron grabbed her hand and pulled her into her living room towards the fireplace, praising her for always having her Floo Powder in an easy-to-find place because his was, apparently, always in the last place he expected even though he was the one that had left it there.
罗恩抓住她的手，把她拉进客厅的壁炉前，称赞她总是把她的飞路粉放在一个容易找到的地方，因为他显然总是在他最不期望的地方，尽管他是把它留在那里的人。

When Ron and Hermione arrived at St. Mungo's they found Mr and Mrs Weasley were already in the waiting room with a sleeping baby James, both bright-eyed and excited. Hugs and kisses were exchanged before they all sank into seats in the waiting room, nervously awaiting an update from Harry. 
当罗恩和赫敏到达圣芒戈时，他们发现韦斯莱先生和夫人已经在等候室里，抱着一个熟睡的婴儿詹姆斯，他们都眼睛明亮而兴奋。他们互相拥抱和亲吻，然后都坐在等候室的座位上，紧张地等待着哈利的更新。

After a while, when an update wasn’t forthcoming, they all made their way up to the tea room where Mr Weasley purchased styrofoam cups filled with tea for each of them, as well as a plate of round chocolate biscuits. They all happily dug in, debating whether it would be a boy or a girl and what Harry and Ginny were likely to call their second child. 
过了一会儿，当没有更新时，他们都去了茶室，韦斯莱先生在那里为他们每个人买了装满茶的泡沫塑料杯，还有一盘圆形的巧克力饼干。他们都高兴地聊了起来，争论着是男孩还是女孩，以及哈利和金妮应该怎么称呼他们的第二个孩子。

"Hagrid," said Ron staunchly through a mouthful of biscuit. Hermione wrinkled her nose when a few crumbs sprayed onto the table.
“海格，”罗恩含着一口饼干坚定地说。赫敏皱了皱鼻子，几块面包屑喷到了桌子上。

Mrs Weasley's eyes widened. "Surely not," she whispered, turning to her husband who could only shrug in response, his eyebrows raised and his lip pushed out thoughtfully. 
韦斯莱夫人睁大了眼睛。“当然不是，”她低声说，转向她的丈夫，他只能耸耸肩作为回应，他扬起眉毛，若有所思地张出嘴唇。

"No, I don't think that's likely, Mrs Weasley," Hermione said soothingly, shooting Ron her most stern 'be quiet' look. He ignored it. 
“不，我觉得这不太可能，韦斯莱夫人，”赫敏安抚地说，用她最严厉的“安静”的眼神瞪了罗恩一眼。他没有理会。

"What? It's a great name. Boy or girl. Strong. I'll put galleons on it."
“什么？这是一个很棒的名字。男孩或女孩。强。我就放大帆船上去。

"I'd thought maybe Ginny would like to use one of our family names this time, or…" Mrs Weasley said, looking at a loss. 
“我想也许金妮这次想用我们这个姓氏，或者......”韦斯莱夫人说，一脸失落。

"I'm sure Ginny and Harry will be very happy with the name they choose," said Mr Weasley consolingly, patting his wife's arm. 
“我敢肯定金妮和哈利会对他们选择的名字感到非常高兴，”韦斯莱先生拍了拍妻子的胳膊，安慰地说。

Ron shrugged, clearly bemused by his mother’s aversion to his proposed name, and looked down at his watch. "George said he'd close the shop early and swing by. Don't reckon he'll be too much longer. I left him at 1 to get Hermione."
罗恩耸了耸肩，显然对他母亲对他提议的名字的厌恶感到困惑，然后低头看了看手表。“乔治说他会早点关店，然后顺便过来。别以为他会活得太久。我把他留在 1 点去找赫敏。

Hermione, who was just taking a bite of biscuit, choked on a crumb and coughed violently when it lodged in her throat. 
刚吃一口饼干的赫敏被面包屑呛住了，当面包屑卡在她的喉咙里时，她剧烈地咳嗽起来。

"Wait, Ron," she said, gasping for breath as Mr Weasley patted her back with concern, "what time is it? Right now?"
“等等，罗恩，”韦斯莱先生关切地拍了拍她的背，她喘着粗气说，“现在几点了？现在？

"It's 3," he said, double-checking his watch, alarmed. "Why?"
“现在是 3 点，”他说，仔细检查了一下手表，惊慌失措。“为什么？”

Hermione swore and scrambled to her feet, narrowly avoiding knocking over her half-full cup of tea. "I didn't realise so long had — where's the Owlery in here? Quick, please."
赫敏咒骂了一声，匆匆站起来，险些避免打翻她半满的茶杯。“我没意识到这么久了——这里的猫头鹰在哪里？快点。

"It's just upstairs, dear," Molly said, adjusting James in her arms. "It's part of the roof. Are you alright?"
“就在楼上，亲爱的，”莫莉说，一边调整着怀里的詹姆斯。“它是屋顶的一部分。你还好吗？

"Fine!" Hermione cried, taking off out of the tea room at speed. 
“好吧！”赫敏喊道，飞快地走出了茶室。

Malfoy . In the excitement she'd managed to forget her meeting with Malfoy was approaching, which was incredible, really, given the amount of time she’d spent thinking about him recently. She didn't even know what time she'd left the flat with Ron. After purchasing some parchment and a self-inking quill from the hospital gift shop for an absolutely ridiculous six galleons, Hermione rushed to the rooftop. 
马尔福 .在兴奋中，她设法忘记了她和马尔福的会面即将到来，这真是不可思议，真的，考虑到她最近花了那么多时间想着他。她甚至不知道自己什么时候和罗恩一起离开了公寓。在医院礼品店买了一些羊皮纸和一支自动上墨的羽毛笔，花了绝对荒谬的六加隆后，赫敏冲到了屋顶。

On her haunches to protect her parchment from the wind, Hermione scribbled out an apology to Lucius against her knee, telling him that an emergency had required her attention and she wouldn't make their meeting this week. “ I'm very sorry for not giving you notice, Mr Malfoy .” Hermione nibbled the end of the quill thoughtfully, adding, “ let's start again at the usual time next week .” Though she meant their interviews, she was rather hoping to communicate that she didn't want their last meeting hanging over them. 
赫敏在她的臀部上保护她的羊皮纸免受风吹拂，在她的膝盖上潦草地向卢修斯道歉，告诉他有紧急情况需要她注意，她这周不会去见他们。“我很抱歉没有通知你，马尔福先生。”赫敏若有所思地啃了一口羽毛笔的末端，补充道，“我们下周照常的时间再开始吧。虽然她指的是他们的采访，但她更希望传达的是，她不希望他们最后一次见面悬在他们身上。

Or this particular error on her part, because missing a meeting without warning was exactly the kind of thing she knew would rankle with Malfoy. He'd been irritated enough when she'd shown up half an hour early without warning one week, so how would he take it when she missed a session entirely? 
或者是她的这个特殊错误，因为她知道毫无征兆地错过会议正是那种会让马尔福不满的事情。当她在一个星期里毫无征兆地提前半小时出现时，他已经够生气的了，那么当她完全错过了一次治疗时，他又该怎么忍受呢？

Perhaps it was a good thing, though. For her, at least. Another week would allow her to sort her head out and give those dreams time to stop. Slipping a sickle into the pouch of a small, fluffy hospital owl, Hermione guiltily sent it on its way, knowing the poor creature was likely flying towards a very irritable man. 
不过，也许这是一件好事。至少对她来说。再过一周，她就可以理清头绪，让那些梦有时间停止。赫敏把一把镰刀塞进一只毛茸茸的小医院猫头鹰的袋子里，愧疚地把它送走了，因为她知道这只可怜的家伙很可能是朝着一个非常易怒的男人飞来的。

Lucius crushed Hermione's letter in his fist and dropped it onto his desk. An emergency . What was the emergency? Her unwillingness to face him? 
卢修斯用拳头捏碎了赫敏的信，把它扔在了桌子上。 紧急情况 .紧急情况是什么？她不愿意面对他？

He'd been on time for their meeting. He'd waited an hour. An hour for her . And she'd just been out in the world doing...what? Something that she saw as more important than him, obviously. But not important enough for specifics. Or was it just that he wasn’t important enough to know those specifics?
他准时参加了他们的会议。他等了一个小时。一个小时属于她。而她刚刚在外面的世界里做......什么？显然，她认为比他更重要的东西。但对于具体细节来说还不够重要。或者只是他不够重要，不知道这些细节？

Had she not humiliated him enough? 
难道她还没羞辱他吗？

Did she think that he had nothing better to do? 
她觉得他没有更好的办法吗？

Pushing himself to his feet, Lucius stalked over to his firewhiskey and poured himself a generous helping. If anyone had asked, he would have insisted it was a three-finger measure but in reality it was closer to four. He stayed by the table as he drank, knowing he would need a refill sooner rather than later. There had been a time in his life, he recalled with longing, when he'd been busy and important. Back then, no one would have dared miss a meeting with him, never mind without notice. It would have been tacitly understood that he’d make their life barely worth living in retaliation. 
卢修斯站起身来，大步走到他的火威士忌前，慷慨地给自己倒了一杯。如果有人问，他会坚持说这是三指的测量，但实际上更接近四指。他一边喝酒一边坐在桌子旁，知道他迟早需要补充。他怀着憧憬的回忆道，在他的生命中，有一段时间，他既忙碌又重要。那时，没有人敢错过与他的会面，更不用说没有通知了。人们会心照不宣地理解，他会让他们的生活几乎不值得生活在报复中。

Granger was taking his availability for granted. Let's start fresh next week , she'd written. As though she thought she could just break their schedule one week and then waltz back in the next like nothing had happened. To think, he'd been considering apologising to her. To think, she’d been on his mind all morning – all week – and he was nothing more than an afterthought for her. 
格兰杰认为他的空闲时间是理所当然的。 让我们下周重新开始吧，她写道。就好像她认为她可以在一周内打破他们的日程安排，然后在下一周又像什么都没发生过一样跳华尔兹。想想看，他一直在考虑向她道歉。想想看，她整个上午——整个星期——都在他的脑海里——而他对她来说只不过是事后的想法。

Lucius drained the last of his whiskey, wincing as it burned his throat, and immediately reached out to pour another. The best thing to do would be to occupy himself with something else. Reading, perhaps, or some work in the greenhouse. 
卢修斯喝光了他最后的威士忌，当它灼伤他的喉咙时，他皱起了眉头，然后立即伸手倒了一杯。最好的办法是让自己忙于其他事情。也许是阅读，或者在温室里做一些工作。

The problem was, she was still on his mind. He'd thought, hoped, their meeting might scratch the persistent itch she'd been causing in his brain and now he was facing another long week of the same bloody thing. It wouldn’t do.
问题是，她仍然在他的脑海中。他想过，希望他们的会面能挠挠她一直在他脑海中造成的持续痒痒，现在他又要面对同样的事情的漫长一周。这不行。

He wanted to see her. To talk to her. Maybe shout at her. He wanted to grab her and ask her what right she thought she had.
他想见她。和她谈谈。也许是对她大喊大叫。他想抓住她，问她认为自己有什么权利。

Lucius set the firewhiskey bottle down with a heavy thunk .
卢修斯沉重地砰地一声放下了火威士忌瓶。

He just…wanted her. 
他只是......想要她。

His face and posture slackened as he allowed his newly-filled glass of firewhiskey to dangle loosely in his grip by his side. 
他的脸和姿势都放松了下来，任由他新装满的火威士忌杯松散地垂在他身边。

He wanted her. Any of her. All of her.
他想要她。她中的任何一个。她的全部。

Coming to terms with that was like lighting himself on fire and putting it out all at the same time. An agonising, horrifying, soothing, purifying relief . 
接受这一点就像点燃自己，同时扑灭它。一种痛苦、可怕、舒缓、净化的解脱。

He’d never wanted anyone remotely like her but he’d also never wanted anyone quite like he wanted her. Every individual part of him screamed its desire to resist but the sum of him was powerless to do so. 
他从来没有想要过像她这样的人，但他也从来没有想要过像他想要她一样的人。他的每一个部分都尖叫着想要抵抗，但他的总和无能为力。

It had been so long since he’d really wanted anything. Anyone. Long enough that he’d forgotten that rousing motivation that so often accompanied desire and how much he enjoyed giving into it. Throwing back another firewhiskey in one, Lucius exhaled raggedly through gritted teeth.
他已经很久没有真正想要任何东西了。任何人。足够长的时间，以至于他已经忘记了那种经常伴随着欲望的激动人心的动力，以及他有多么喜欢屈服于它。卢修斯把另一杯火威士忌扔回去，咬牙切齿地粗重地呼出一口气。

Fuck .
他妈的。

When Hermione returned to the cafeteria, she found that Mrs Weasley, Mr Weasley, James and Ron had been joined by George, Bill and Fleur. Sliding into a seat beside Mr Weasley at the end of the table, Hermione tried to figure out what she'd missed in the conversation. 
当赫敏回到自助餐厅时，她发现韦斯莱夫人、韦斯莱先生、詹姆和罗恩已经加入了乔治、比尔和芙蓉的行列。赫敏滑到桌子尽头韦斯莱先生旁边的座位上，试图弄清楚她在谈话中错过了什么。

"'Agrid!" Fleur cried, aghast, "Ginevra would never!"
“'艾格丽德！”芙蓉惊恐地喊道：“金妮芙拉绝对不会的！

Ron shrugged, "I'm getting a pool going, Fleur, put your galleons where your doubt is. How much are you putting in, Hermione? You ran off before I could ask."
罗恩耸耸肩，“我要去游泳池了，芙蓉，把你的大帆船放在你怀疑的地方。你投入了多少钱，赫敏？我还没来得及问，你就跑掉了。

Bill, George and Fleur, now alerted to Hermione’s presence, looked around and greeted her with pleased smiles which she took the time to return before fixing Ron with a stern look.
比尔、乔治和芙蓉这时注意到了赫敏的存在，环顾四周，用满意的微笑向她打招呼，她花时间回应，然后用严厉的眼神看着罗恩。

"I'm not betting, Ron. And nor should you; you're throwing your money away with that choice."
“我不是在打赌，罗恩。你也不应该;你就是在用这个选择把钱扔掉。

"Oh, Hermione with an inside tip there!" cried George, digging into his pockets and throwing some gold coins onto the table. "Right, Ron, you're on. I bet you 3 galleons it's not Hagrid. And I'll put a little extra galleon on the name Remus."
“哦，赫敏，那里有个内幕！”乔治喊道，从口袋里掏出一些金币，把一些金币扔到桌子上。“对，罗恩，你开始了。我敢打赌你 3 加隆不是海格。我还要给莱姆斯这个名字加一点额外的加隆。

Ron grumbled and narrowed his eyes as he pulled the coins towards himself. "That's not a bad bet, actually."
罗恩抱怨着，眯起眼睛，把硬币拉向自己。“实际上，这并不是一个糟糕的赌注。”

"Did you get an owl dear?" asked Mrs Weasley, cradling the sleeping James closer to her chest. 
“亲爱的，你有一只猫头鹰吗？”韦斯莱夫人问道，把熟睡的詹姆紧紧地抱在胸前。

"Yes, thank you," Hermione said quietly.
“是的，谢谢你，”赫敏轻声说。

"Were you owling Neville and Luna?" Ron asked. "Probably a good idea; they might like to be here."
“你是在欠纳威和卢娜吗？”罗恩问道。“也许是个好主意;他们可能想在这里。

"No," Hermione mumbled, eyes cast down as she ran her thumb along the edge of the table. She wasn't particularly keen on announcing who she'd been owling to the majority of the Weasley family. 
“不，”赫敏喃喃自语，用拇指在桌子边缘滑行，眼睛低垂着。她并不是特别热衷于向韦斯莱家族的大多数人宣布她欠谁的债。

"Well, who's left to tell?" Ron frowned and counted around the table. "Charlie can't be here and Perce is already on his way."
“嗯，谁能说呢？”罗恩皱着眉头，围着桌子数了数。“查理不可能在这里，珀斯已经在路上了。”

"It wasn't about inviting anyone here, Ron. I missed something—a meeting—and I had to explain my absence."
“这不是要邀请任何人来，罗恩。我错过了什么——一个会议——我不得不解释我的缺席。

"But you don't— oh ." A look of dark understanding passed over Ron's face. " Him . Forgot it's Thursday."
“但你没有——哦。”罗恩的脸上掠过一丝理解的神情。“ 他 .忘了今天是星期四。

All of the gathered Weasleys looked at Hermione with keen interest as she rolled her eyes and wrapped her arms around herself. "Yes. Him ."
所有聚集的韦斯莱一家都饶有兴趣地看着赫敏，她翻了个白眼，用双臂搂住了自己。“是的。 他。

"Is there a new, more concise You-Know-Who you're not telling us about?" George asked, looking back and forth between Ron and Hermione. 
“有没有一个新的、更简洁的 You-Know-Who 你没有告诉我们？”乔治问道，在罗恩和赫敏之间来回打量。

"Might as well be," grumbled Ron, counting his galleons. "It's Lucius Malfoy. You know about that."
“也许吧，”罗恩抱怨道，数着他的大帆船。“是卢修斯·马尔福。你知道的。

"Oh," George said, sharing a significant look with Ron. " Him ."
“哦，”乔治说，与罗恩分享了一个意味深长的眼神。“他。”

Repressing a sigh, Hermione addressed the curious stares of the remaining Weasleys. "I interview him on Thursdays for my oral history. That's it. I just missed this week and thought it wasn't very polite not to explain myself."
赫敏强忍住叹息，对着剩下的韦斯莱一家好奇的目光。“我每周四采访他，了解我的口述历史。就是这样。我只是错过了这周，觉得不解释自己不是很礼貌。

"Reckon you're wasting your manners there, Hermione," said a distinctly unimpressed Bill. 
“你觉得你在那儿浪费了礼仪，赫敏，”比尔显然不为所动地说。

Hermione shuffled in her seat uncomfortably and, in her desperation to look anywhere but at the Weasleys, she caught Ron's eyes over the table. Unexpectedly, he appeared almost sorry for having dropped her in it. 
赫敏不安地在座位上拖着脚步，她急切地想看一眼韦斯莱一家以外的任何地方，她注意到了罗恩的目光越过桌子。出乎意料的是，他似乎几乎为把她丢进去而感到遗憾。

"Well," he said, breaking eye contact with exaggerated joviality, "that's one name we know won't be in the pool, eh?"
“嗯，”他说，以夸张的快感打断了眼神交流，“我们知道这个名字不会出现在游泳池里，是吧？

"Ah, but what about Lily for a girl? Zat was 'is mother, no?"
“啊，但是莉莉对一个女孩呢？扎特说：'是妈妈，不是吗？

"Yes, Fleur!" cried Bill with an adoring smile at his wife. "We'll put money on that."
“是的，芙蓉！” 比尔对他的妻子露出崇拜的微笑。“我们会为此投入资金。”

The table descended back into a loud debate over odds and the names of Harry's various loved ones while Hermione exhaled in relief and leaned back in her chair. 
桌子上又陷入了一场关于赔率和哈利各种亲人名字的大声辩论中，赫敏松了一口气，向后靠在椅子上。

"And how is old Lucius?" came Mr Weasley's quiet voice to her right. Hermione turned to him and found that he was leaning in towards her with his arms crossed, appearing more conspiratorial than irritated or confused.
“那么老卢修斯怎么样了？”韦斯莱先生平静的声音从她的右边传来。赫敏转向他，发现他正交叉着双臂向她靠过来，看起来更像是阴谋论，而不是恼怒或困惑。

"He's…" Hermione trailed off thoughtfully and Mr Weasley waited patiently. "It's hard to say," she finally said apologetically. "Not quite what he used to be?"
“他......”赫敏若有所思地走了，韦斯莱先生耐心地等待着。“这很难说，”她终于抱歉地说。“不完全是他以前的样子了吗？”

Mr Weasley nodded slowly but he didn't look especially pleased or vindictively amused. Just thoughtful.
韦斯莱先生缓缓地点了点头，但他看起来并不特别高兴或报复性地被逗乐。只是体贴。

"Hmm. He prioritised the wrong things for a long time, I imagine it’s been hard for him to come to terms with that. Men like him – men who’ve always had everything – tend to feel entitled to more without fully comprehending just how much they stand to lose. Until they lose it, of course. Or come close to it."
“嗯。他长期以来都优先考虑错误的事情，我想他很难接受这一点。像他这样的男人——总是拥有一切的男人——往往觉得有权得到更多，却没有完全理解他们会失去多少。当然，直到他们失去它。或者接近它。

Not entirely sure what to say to that, Hermione reached for her now-cold tea and took a sip. 
赫敏不完全确定该说什么，伸手拿起她现在已经凉了的茶，喝了一口。

"Don't let him take it out on you, Hermione."
“别让他对你发泄，赫敏。”

Meeting Arthur's eyes, Hermione found them sincere and concerned. "I won't, Mr Weasley."
与亚瑟的眼睛相遇，赫敏发现他们真诚而关心。“我不会的，韦斯莱先生。”

Satisfied, he smiled and inclined his head, returning to his quiet, fond observance of his arguing children. 
他满意地笑了笑，歪了歪头，回到他安静、深情地观察他吵架的孩子们的情景中。

Another few hours passed and night began to creep in, during which time George pulled out a hip flask and Percy arrived with a bottle of port extracted from his desk at the Ministry at the last minute. The tea room steadily emptied until they were the only group using it. 
又过了几个小时，夜幕开始悄悄降临，这时乔治拿出了一个酒瓶，珀西在最后一刻拿着一瓶从魔法部的办公桌上拿来的波特酒来了。茶室逐渐空无一人，直到他们成为唯一使用它的群体。

Hermione was nursing a small styrofoam cup filled with port when Harry arrived looking tired but elated. The table fell into a tense silence, all eyes fixed on him as he approached.
赫敏正在护理一个装满波特酒的小泡沫塑料杯，哈利来了，看起来很累，但兴高采烈。桌子陷入了紧张的寂静，当他走近时，所有人的目光都盯着他。

"It's a boy," he said, a beaming smile on his face. “Healthy just like his mother. Seven pounds, four ounces.”
“是个男孩，”他说，脸上露出灿烂的笑容。“就像他的母亲一样健康。七磅，四盎司。

The table roared its approval, frightening the now-awake James. Mrs Weasley passed the sobbing boy into his father's arms as everyone hugged one another and congratulated Harry. 
桌子上咆哮着表示赞同，吓坏了现在清醒的詹姆斯。韦斯莱夫人把哭泣的男孩抱进了他爸爸的怀里，大家互相拥抱，向哈利表示祝贺。

"So, mate, what's the name then?" asked Ron, a hint of eagerness in his voice. 
“那么，伙计，那叫什么名字呢？” 罗恩问道，他的声音里带着一丝急切。

"Look at him trying to be casual," jeered George, pointing at his brother and barking out a laugh. "Is it Hagrid, Harry?"
“瞧瞧他尽量装腔作势，”乔治嘲笑道，指着他的弟弟大笑起来。“是海格吗，哈利？”

Harry cuddled James into his chest, looking utterly perplexed as he rocked him back and forth to soothe him. "What? No, it's Albus. Albus Severus."
哈利把詹姆斯抱在他的胸口，在他来回摇晃以安抚他时，看起来非常困惑。“什么？不，是阿不思。阿不思·西弗勒斯。

Another roar rent the air, the loudest sound coming from a financially devastated Ron. Hermione laughed loudly and rose from her seat, moving around the table to hug Ron from behind and plant a kiss on the top of his head before wrapping Harry and James in a hug. She kissed Harry’s cheek and did the same to James but far more gently, feeling that his soft face was still warm from his crying.
另一声咆哮划破了空气，最响亮的声音来自经济崩溃的罗恩。赫敏大声笑了起来，从座位上站起来，绕着桌子从后面拥抱罗恩，在他的头顶上亲了一下，然后把哈利和詹姆斯抱在了一起。她亲吻哈利的脸颊，对詹姆斯做同样的事情，但要温柔得多，感觉到他柔软的脸上仍然因哭泣而温暖。

"Congratulations," she said softly, her eyes shining as they met Harry’s. 
“恭喜你，”她轻声说，当他们与哈利的眼睛相遇时，她的眼睛闪闪发光。

The rest of the table followed suit, rising and queuing to embrace Harry and wish he and Ginny the best. It was something of a shame, Hermione thought, that Draco Malfoy probably wouldn’t have quite the same reception when he announced the birth of he and Astoria’s child.
桌子上的其他人也纷纷效仿，起身排队拥抱哈利，祝他和金妮一切顺利。有点遗憾，赫敏想，当德拉科·马尔福宣布他和阿斯托利亚的孩子出生时，他可能不会受到同样的接待。

It was just before midnight by the time Hermione arrived back at her flat. After everyone had congratulated Harry, forcing a port into his hand and another down his throat, they had left Mr and Mrs Weasley and James to be the first to see Ginny and the new baby. 
赫敏回到她的公寓时，已经是午夜前了。在大家都向哈利道过祝贺之后，他们把一个端口塞进了他的手里，又塞进了他的喉咙，他们让韦斯莱先生和夫人以及詹姆成为第一个看到金妮和新生儿的人。

Hermione, Fleur and the other Weasleys, agreeing that Ginny would be far too tired to see everyone, had departed for a Muggle pub and toasted to Albus Severus. They'd had fun at first, advising an agitated Percy on how to converse with people he fancied about things that weren’t work or general Ministry policy, but they called it a night when Ron reached an exceptionally morose state and declared he was almost certain Hannah was going to leave him for Hogwarts. 
赫敏、芙蓉和其他韦斯莱一家都认为金妮会太累了，无法见到大家，于是他们去了一家麻瓜酒吧，向阿不思·西弗勒斯敬酒。起初他们玩得很开心，建议激动的珀西如何与他喜欢的人交谈，谈论那些不是工作或魔法部一般政策的事情，但他们称那天晚上，罗恩达到了异常忧郁的状态，并宣布他几乎可以肯定汉娜会离开他去霍格沃茨。

Knowing that she wanted to make up for her day of missed work on Friday, Hermione had tried to stop drinking fairly early but she still felt a touch unsteady as she wound her way through the hallway of her flat and into her bedroom. 
赫敏知道她想弥补周五错过的一天，她试图早点停止喝酒，但当她穿过公寓的走廊进入她的卧室时，她仍然感到有点不稳定。

Not bothering to close the door, Hermione stepped out of her clothes, leaving them in a bundle on her floor, and pulled her oversized Chudley Cannons t-shirt on over her comfiest knickers. It was a hot night and it was a relief to get some air around her legs.
赫敏懒得关门，从衣服里走出来，把它们一捆一捆地放在地板上，把她超大号的查德利大炮T恤套在她最舒适的短裤外面。那是一个炎热的夜晚，她的腿周围有一些空气，真是让人松了一口气。

Leaving her bedroom, her bare feet padding across the wooden floor of her hall, she peeked into the living room in the direction of the window. A small part of her was disappointed not to see the bright orange eyes of Lucius Malfoy's owl waiting for her. When he hadn't sent a reply to the hospital, she'd told herself it was more likely that he'd sent his owl to her flat. Apparently not. What she was even expecting from him she didn't know. Lucius Malfoy didn't send notes of comfort and understanding. He was probably furious at her. 
她走出卧室，光着脚踩在走廊的木地板上，朝窗户的方向偷看了一眼客厅。她有一小部分人因为没有看到卢修斯·马尔福的猫头鹰那双明亮的橙色眼睛在等着她而感到失望。当他没有给医院回复时，她告诉自己，他更有可能把他的猫头鹰送到了她的公寓。显然不是。她甚至不知道她对他有什么期望。卢修斯·马尔福没有送来安慰和理解的信。他可能对她很生气。

Hermione was just making her way across the hall in the direction of the kitchen to get a drink of water when a loud bang at her front door made her stop dead in her tracks. Feeling suddenly very sober, she turned in the direction of the door and held her breath, staying completely still and silent. Her wand wasn't on her; it was on her bedroom floor with her clothes. 
赫敏正穿过走廊，朝着厨房的方向去喝水，这时一声巨响传来，她的前门砰的一声让她停在了原地。她突然感到非常清醒，她转向门的方向，屏住呼吸，完全静止不动，一言不发。她的魔杖不在她身上;它和她的衣服一起在她卧室的地板上。

Another loud bang made Hermione jump and scamper back into her bedroom. Snatching her wand up from the pile on the floor, she moved back through the doorway with it held aloft. 
又一声巨响让赫敏跳了起来，蹦蹦跳跳地回到了她的卧室。她从地板上的一堆魔杖中抓起魔杖，高举着魔杖从门口向后移动。

"Granger! Open this door!"
“格兰杰！打开这扇门！

The command was followed by another loud bang and Hermione's mouth dropped open. She knew that voice. That absurdly entitled voice. Surely not . It was impossible. Not just conceptually; it was physically impossible. Wasn't it? Lowering her wand, her heart hammering so hard she thought it might be able to knock the door right back, Hermione approached her front door at a creep to peer through the eye hole. 
命令之后是另一声巨响，赫敏张大了嘴巴。她认识那个声音。那个荒谬的标题。 当然不是。这是不可能的。不仅仅是概念上;这在物理上是不可能的。不是吗？赫敏放下魔杖，她的心跳得如此剧烈，她觉得它也许能把门敲回去，赫敏悄悄地靠近她的前门，从眼孔里窥视。

Just as she expected, Lucius Malfoy was leaning his shoulder against the frame of her front door looking exhausted, frustrated and almost certainly like he'd been drinking. 
正如她所料，卢修斯·马尔福正把肩膀靠在她前门的框架上，看起来筋疲力尽，沮丧，几乎可以肯定他就像在喝酒一样。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Eh heh. We're at the top of the flume here people. Please don't kill me.
呵呵。我们在这里处于水槽的顶部，人们。请不要杀我。

Chapter 23
第二十三章Chapter Notes
章节注释

First of all: holy shit. Thank you for all your enthusiasm! I really enjoy writing this story so I'm unbelievably delighted that people are enjoying it. 
首先：天哪。感谢您的热情！我真的很喜欢写这个故事，所以我非常高兴人们喜欢它。

Now, let's see what the results of the last chapter's revelations are, eh?
现在，让我们看看上一章的启示的结果是什么，嗯？

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾Hermione wrenched open her front door and grabbed Malfoy by the arm, hauling him into her flat without a second thought. Poking her head into the outer hallway, she turned left and right. Seeing no one, she closed the door tight and turned to find him with his back to her, using the palm of his hand to support his weight against her wall.
赫敏拧开她的前门，抓住马尔福的胳膊，不假思索地把他拖进了自己的公寓。她把头探进外面的走廊，左右转过身来。没有看到任何人，她把门关紧，转身发现他背对着她，用他的手掌将他的重量支撑在她的墙上。

“What is this?” she asked, furious and disbelieving, as she walked around him to look him in the face. “What the fuck are you doing ? You’re under house arrest, Mr Malfoy, you can’t be here!”
“这是什么？”她问道，愤怒而难以置信，同时绕过他，看着他的脸。“你他妈在干什么？你被软禁了，马尔福先生，你不能在这里！

His eyes were closed, a frown creating a deep crease in the skin between his brows. He seemed to be breathing deeply through his nose as though steadying himself. If he was sick in her hall she’d hex him into oblivion.
他闭着眼睛，皱眉在眉间的皮肤上形成了深深的皱纹。他似乎在用鼻子深呼吸，仿佛在稳住自己。如果他在她的大厅里生病了，她就会把他咒语遗忘。

“Are you even listening to me?” she asked, stepping closer to him, her wand gripped tight in her fist. “Have you been drinking? Mr Malfoy, you’re under house arrest. The Aurors will know you’ve left. Doesn't the Magic Dampener also—”
“你有没有听我说话？”她问道，一边靠近他，手里紧紧地握着魔杖。“你喝酒了吗？马尔福先生，你被软禁了。傲罗们会知道你已经走了。魔法阻尼器不也是——”

"Don’t give them so much credit. It doesn’t tell them when I leave,” Malfoy said through gritted teeth, squeezing his eyes more tightly shut as though the words were costing him a great deal of effort. “It suppresses my magic so as far as they're concerned I can't apparate, or use the Floo, or go far .” He took a deep, shuddering breath. “It's supposed to incapacitate me in the highly unlikely event I breach the wards which match its magical signature so they can find me when they realise I’m gone.”
“不要给他们太多的荣誉。它不会告诉他们我什么时候离开，“马尔福咬牙切齿地说，把眼睛紧紧地闭着，仿佛这些话让他费了很大的力气。“它压制了我的魔法，所以就他们而言，我不能幻影，也不能使用飞路，也不能走得太远。”他深深地吸了一口气，颤抖着。“它应该在我突破符合其魔法特征的守卫时使我失去行动能力，这样当他们意识到我走了时就可以找到我。”

“Incapacitate…?” Hermione trailed off wonderingly, properly taking in his contorting face and crumbling posture. There was, she realised, a faint shimmer of sweat across his brow and suddenly she didn’t see drunkenness but – “Mr Malfoy, are you in pain?”
“丧失能力......？”赫敏疑惑地走开了，适当地观察了他扭曲的脸和摇摇欲坠的姿势。她意识到，他的额头上闪过一丝淡淡的汗水，突然间她没有看到醉酒，而是——“马尔福先生，你痛吗？

“Some,” he said, his hand sliding further down the wall as he folded into himself. 
“一些，”他说，他的手在折叠自己时进一步滑下墙壁。

Rushing forward, Hermione planted her hands on his shoulders to steady him, her anger temporarily forgotten. “How did you get here?” she demanded. “If you can’t apparate or Floo, tell me. I need to get you home.”
赫敏冲上前去，双手搭在他的肩膀上稳住他，她的愤怒暂时忘记了。“你是怎么到这儿的？”“如果你不能幻影或飞路，就告诉我。我得送你回家。

“The elf,” he said, his voice catching in his throat.
“那个妖精，”他说，他的声音卡在了喉咙里。

“Letty,” Hermione called, her voice rising with panic as more of Malfoy’s weight fell on her hands. “Letty!”
“莱蒂，”赫敏喊道，随着马尔福的更多重量落在她的手上，她的声音因恐慌而提高。“莱蒂！”

“LETTY!” Malfoy barked, his voice straining.
“莱蒂！”马尔福吼道，他的声音很紧张。

A crack rent the air and an audibly anxious Letty appeared in Hermione’s hall, her eyes wide and brimming with tears. “Master is in pain,” the elf cried, twisting her left wrist with her right hand like she was trying to unscrew it. “Letty tried to tell the master that he shouldn’t! Letty told master that miss—”
一阵裂缝划破了空气，听见焦虑的莱蒂出现在赫敏的大厅里，她的眼睛睁得大大的，泪流满面。「主人很痛，」妖精喊道，一边用右手扭动着她的左手腕，彷佛她正试图拧开它。“莱蒂试图告诉主人，他不应该这样做！莱蒂告诉主人，那个小姐——”

“Letty,” Hermione interrupted forcefully, barely managing to keep her tone even as Malfoy clutched her upper arm tightly to stay upright. “Letty, it’s not your fault. You only did as he asked you. And now you need to do as I’m asking you. Take us back to your master’s study. Please. Right now.”
“莱蒂，”赫敏用力打断了她，即使马尔福紧紧地抓住她的上臂以保持直立，她也勉强保持了自己的语气。“莱蒂，这不是你的错。你只是按照他的要求做了。现在你需要按照我的要求去做。带我们回到你的师父书房。请。 现在。

Taking a gasping, teary breath, Letty nodded and rushed forward, grabbing both Hermione and Lucius by their legs to transport them to his study with a crack . 
莱蒂喘着粗气，泪流满面，点点头，冲上前去，抓住赫敏和卢修斯的腿，啪啪一声把他们送到了他的书房。

They appeared in the centre of the room, between the sofa and the crackling fireplace. Supporting Malfoy, Hermione helped him towards the sofa as Letty stood to the side, tears openly pouring down her wrinkled cheeks. Ignoring Letty’s choked apologies, Hermione lowered Malfoy into a sitting position on the sofa. He groaned as the weight came off his feet and reached down to hold the leg fitted with the Magic Dampener. 
他们出现在房间的中央，在沙发和噼啪作响的壁炉之间。赫敏扶着马尔福，扶着他走向沙发，而莱蒂则站在一边，泪水从她布满皱纹的脸颊上流下来。赫敏无视莱蒂哽咽的道歉，将马尔福放到沙发上坐下。当重量从脚上脱落时，他呻吟着，伸手握住了装有魔法阻尼器的腿。

“Move,” Hermione snapped, batting away his hand and dropping to her knees between his legs, her large Chudley Cannons t-shirt pooling on the floor around her. It said a lot to her about the pain he must be in that he immediately relented and fell back into the sofa, his body slumped.
“动，”赫敏厉声说，拍开他的手，跪在他的两腿之间，她的大 Chudley Cannons T 恤在她周围的地板上积落。这对她来说，他一定很痛苦，他立即心软了，倒在沙发上，身体瘫软了下来。

Not bothering to waste time trying to roll them up, Hermione used a severing charm to open the leg of his trousers from the knee to the hem. Folding the material over his knees, she set her eyes on the Magic Dampener for the first time. 
赫敏懒得浪费时间试图把它们卷起来，他用了一个切断咒，从膝盖到下摆打开了他的裤腿。将材料折叠在他的膝盖上，她第一次将目光投向了 Magic Dampener。

It was an unremarkable, solid iron cuff, clamped around his calf just above where his sock ended. It wasn’t moving or even emitting any kind of sound so Hermione could only assume that whatever it had been doing had stopped. But it had clearly been doing something because its effects were lingering. The muscles in Malfoy’s calf—and possibly further up his leg—were visibly straining and spasming. Touching a finger to the device, Hermione gasped and pulled her hand back. It was burning hot. 
那是一个不起眼的、结实的铁铐，夹在他的小腿上，就在他袜子末端的上方。它没有移动，甚至没有发出任何声音，所以赫敏只能假设它一直在做什么已经停止了。但它显然一直在做一些事情，因为它的影响挥之不去。马尔福小腿上的肌肉——可能还有他腿上的肌肉——明显地绷紧和痉挛。赫敏用一根手指碰了碰设备，喘着粗气，把手抽了回来。天气很热。

Biting her lip, Hermione glanced up at Lucius from her position on the floor to see his chest rising and falling rapidly, one of his hands pressed over his eyes. The only part of his face she could really see was his tightly clenched jaw. 
赫敏咬着嘴唇，从地板上的位置抬头看了卢修斯一眼，看到他的胸膛迅速起伏，一只手捂住了眼睛。她唯一能真正看到他脸上的部分是他紧紧咬着的下巴。

A loud, keening wail from Letty made Hermione clench her own jaw. “Letty, could you please go and fetch some cold, damp towels for your master,” she said over her shoulder, desperate to remove the sobbing elf from the room without insulting her. “Please, that would be incredibly helpful.”
莱蒂大声、尖锐的哀嚎让赫敏咬紧了自己的下巴。“莱蒂，你能不能去给你的主人拿一些又冷又湿的毛巾，”她转过头说，不顾一切地想把那个哭泣的精灵从房间里带走，而不侮辱她。“拜托，那会非常有帮助。”

The elf hiccuped her acquiescence and disappeared, finally granting Hermione the quiet she needed to think. 
小精灵打了个嗝，默许了她，消失了，终于给了赫敏思考所需的安静。

“Towels?” Malfoy asked hoarsely, lowering his hand to peer down at her. “Why do I need—”
“毛巾？”马尔福嘶哑地问道，垂下手低头看着她。“我为什么需要——”

“Shut up. You don’t get to speak right now,” Hermione said, turning her wand in her hand in a metronomic rhythm that reflected her mind turning over every spell she knew that might help. Incredibly, he fell silent, his head falling back. 
“闭嘴。你现在不能说话，“赫敏说，以节拍的节奏转动手中的魔杖，这反映了她的头脑在翻阅她知道的每一个可能有帮助的咒语。令人难以置信的是，他沉默了下来，头向后仰。

It might work . Exhaling slowly through her nose, Hermione pressed the tip of her wand into the side of knee and wordlessly cast a cooling charm. A quiet intake of breath from above her told her it had done something. Focused on his leg, she turned the wand in a clockwise direction and murmured the sing-song incantation of a relaxation charm that she’d taught herself when the Ministry had become particularly stressful. The muscles in Malfoy’s legs began to loosen and, out of the corner of her eyes, she saw his hand that had been gripping the edge of the sofa relinquish its hold. He didn’t make a single sound otherwise. 
它可能会奏效。赫敏从鼻子里缓缓地呼出一口气，将魔杖的尖端压在膝盖侧面，无言地施展了一个冷却咒。她从头顶轻轻地吸了一口气，告诉她它做了什么。她专注于他的腿，将魔杖顺时针方向转动，喃喃自语着一种放松咒语的歌唱咒语，这是她在魔法部变得特别紧张时自学的。马尔福腿上的肌肉开始松弛，她用眼角的余光看到他一直抓着沙发边缘的手松开了。他没有发出任何声音。

Hermione had just completed the charm when Letty arrived back in the room, towels piled so high in her arms that they covered her face. Getting to her feet, Hermione took the towels from the elf with a kind but strained smile. 
赫敏刚完成咒语，莱蒂就回到了房间，毛巾在她的手臂上堆得很高，以至于遮住了她的脸。赫敏站起来，带着善意但紧张的微笑从小精灵手中接过毛巾。

“Thank you, Letty. You’ve done very well. You can leave now; the master will be fine.”
“谢谢你，莱蒂。你做得很好。你现在可以离开了;主人会没事的。

Letty peered around Hermione to look at Lucius who, while still in exhausted repose on the sofa, did seem more at peace than when she had left. “I promise,” Hermione added quietly. “I’ll take care of him.”
莱蒂环顾赫敏，看着卢修斯，卢修斯虽然仍然在沙发上疲惫不堪地休息着，但看起来确实比她离开时更加平静。“我保证，”赫敏悄悄地补充道。“我会照顾他的。”

With a last snottery sniff, Letty nodded and, taking Hermione at her word, disapparated. Hermione sighed with relief. Setting the towels on the ground, she returned to her kneeling position between Lucius’ legs and inspected the skin around the now-cool Magic Dampener. Beneath the faint blonde hairs, it was red raw. 
莱蒂最后流了鼻涕，点了点头，听了赫敏的话，失望了。赫敏松了一口气。将毛巾放在地上，她回到跪在卢修斯两腿之间的姿势，检查现在凉爽的魔法阻尼器周围的皮肤。在淡淡的金发下，它是生红的。

Setting her wand down on the floor, Hermione softly ran her thumb over the skin and Malfoy’s leg twitched involuntarily. She hadn’t expected that the Magic Dampener would be so barbaric. Surely a tracking spell, or some kind of variation on the trace, would have made more sense. But the threat of pain was an effective deterrent and a tracking spell wouldn’t keep him in one place if he did get out. Much easier for the Aurors, she supposed, to find him knocked off his feet than to track him on them. 
赫敏把魔杖放在地板上，用拇指轻轻地滑过皮肤，马尔福的腿不由自主地抽搐了一下。她没想到，魔焰会如此野蛮。当然，追踪咒语，或追踪的某种变化，会更有意义。但疼痛的威胁是一种有效的威慑力，如果他真的逃脱了，追踪咒也不会把他困在一个地方。她想，对傲罗来说，找到他被撞倒的脚比追踪他要容易得多。

Lower lip caught between her teeth, Hermione glanced up at him and found he was watching her, his face utterly unreadable. 
赫敏咬住了下唇，抬头看了他一眼，发现他正在看着她，他的脸完全看不清。

“Any better?” she asked, her voice oddly hoarse to her ears.
“好些吗？” 她问道，她的声音奇怪地嘶哑到她耳中。

“Marginally.” 
“稍微。”

His voice was muted and tired but the fact that the word was not being spoken through gritted teeth suggested to Hermione that the improvement was more than marginal and he was just an ungrateful bloody git. Secure in that knowledge, she allowed her tone to harden again.
他的声音低沉而疲惫，但事实上，这个词没有咬牙切齿地说出来，这让赫敏觉得这种改善不仅仅是微不足道的，他只是一个忘恩负义的的家伙。确信了这一点，她让自己的语气再次变得坚硬。

“Then you’re welcome.”
“那不客气。”

He glowered down at her, the usual force somewhat taken out of it by his slumped posture. “It’s your fault I was in that position in the first place.”
他低头瞪着她，平常的力量被他瘫软的姿势稍微削弱了。“这是我的错，我一开始就处于那个位置。”

Hermione choked out a disbelieving laugh. “ Excuse me?” 
赫敏哽咽着发出难以置信的笑声。“什么？”

“You didn’t come to our meeting.”
“你没有来参加我们的会议。”

“And I wrote to you to explain why .”
“我写信给你解释为什么。”

“No you didn’t.”
“不，你没有。”

“Yes, I did ; I sent an owl.”
“是的，我做到了;我派了一只猫头鹰。

“But you didn’t explain why .”
“但你没有解释为什么。”

Hermione paused, her mouth opening and her brow furrowing as she attempted to extract exactly what she’d written from her memory. “I said it was an emergency.”
赫敏停顿了一下，张大了嘴巴，皱着眉头，试图从她的记忆中准确地提取出她所写的东西。“我说这是紧急情况。”

He raised his eyebrows expectantly, inviting her to elaborate, and Hermione sat back on her heels. “You really need to know exactly what I was doing?”
他期待地扬起眉毛，邀请她详细说明，赫敏坐回她的脚跟上。“你真的需要知道我在做什么吗？”

“Have you ever needed to know anything you asked me , Miss Granger? Let’s drop the pretence of necessity from our exchanges, shall we? I want to know.”
“你问过我什么，你有没有需要知道，格兰杰小姐？让我们从我们的交流中放弃必要的伪装，好吗？我想知道。

“Fine,” Hermione snapped. “Ginny Potter was giving birth and I was in the hospital with the Weasley family because I wanted to be there to celebrate with them. You know, because sometimes it’s nice to be around people that you like. Does that explanation meet your satisfaction despite probably being an utterly foreign concept to you?”
“好吧，”赫敏厉声说。“金妮·波特正在分娩，我和韦斯莱一家一起在医院，因为我想在那里和他们一起庆祝。”你知道的，因为有时候和你喜欢的人在一起是件好事。尽管这个解释对你来说可能是一个完全陌生的概念，但你满意吗？

His lips narrowed into a thin line but he didn’t say a word. “I’ll take that as a yes,” Hermione said. “Either way, I don’t see why my absence at our meeting makes me responsible for your decision to show up at my flat. How do you even know where I live?”
他的嘴唇眯成一条细线，但他一言不发。“我会把它当作是，”赫敏说。“不管怎样，我不明白为什么我缺席我们的会议要对你出现在我的公寓里的决定负责。你怎么知道我住在哪里？

“You scrawled your damned return address over every letter you sent me, remember?” he growled. “It is seared in my memory against my will.”
“你写给我的每封信上都写了你那该死的回信地址，还记得吗？”“它违背我的意愿烙印在我的记忆中。”

“But why did you do it? You told me you would hardly describe yourself as careless. Well, let me tell you, Mr Malfoy, that was pretty bloody careless. What if I hadn’t been home? You’d have been left there in the hall in agony. What possessed you?”
“但你为什么要这样做呢？你告诉我你几乎不会说自己粗心大意。好吧，让我告诉你，马尔福先生，这真是的粗心大意。如果我没有在家怎么办？你会痛苦地留在大厅里。你被什么占据了？

“I was angry at you.”
“我对你生气。”

“Couldn’t you just have written to me to tell me that?”
“你不能写信给我告诉我吗？”

“No.”
“不。”

“ Why ?”
“为什么？”

“Because I wanted to see you,” he barked, his voice rising with impatience as he pushed himself up into a straight sitting position. 
“因为我想见你，”他吼道，他的声音因不耐烦而提高，同时把自己推到一个笔直的坐姿。

Oh . Hermione fell silent, her heart hammering in her chest, in her ears, all around the room and in the walls themselves for all she knew. The fire behind her back suddenly felt incredibly warm and she sank further down onto her heels. 
哦。赫敏沉默了，她的心在胸口、耳边、房间周围和墙壁上都砰砰作响。她背后的火突然感到无比温暖，她进一步沉入了她的脚后跟。

“Why?” she asked, her voice quiet. 
“为什么？” 她问道，声音很平静。

Hermione tried to keep her breathing even. On some level, one her mind was only just about able to reach and comprehend, she suspected she knew exactly why. If he hadn’t been having dreams as she had, there was still every chance something had shifted for him too. The looks, the touches, the softening —surely it all had to add up to something that wasn’t completely one-sided.  But she wasn’t entirely sure that she wanted to hear it because acknowledging it would make it real and it couldn’t be real. It just couldn’t.
赫敏试图让她的呼吸保持平稳。在某种程度上，她的头脑只能勉强触及和理解，她怀疑自己确切地知道为什么。如果他没有像她那样做梦，他也有可能也发生了一些变化。眼神、抚摸、柔和——当然，这一切加起来并不完全是片面的。但她并不完全确定自己是否想听，因为承认它会使它成为真实的，而它不可能是真实的。它就是不能。

“I hardly even bloody know,” he said, leaning his elbow on his knee and rubbing his eyes with his thumb and the edge of his forefinger. “You do nothing but infuriate me. You are a walking, talking nightmare .”
“我几乎不知道，”他说，将手肘靠在膝盖上，用拇指和食指边缘揉揉眼睛。“你什么也没做，只是激怒了我。你是一个会走路、会说话的噩梦。

“You’ve been avoiding me, though,” Hermione pointed out, clinging to the hope that there was no way he could be drawn to her as she’d recently felt drawn to him. She’d just been having silly dreams and they would go away. “I’m sure you have.”
“不过，你一直在躲着我，”赫敏指出，抱着希望，他不可能被她吸引，因为她最近感觉被他吸引。她只是做了一些傻傻的梦，它们会消失的。“我相信你有。”

He dropped his hand from his eyes, narrowing them at her. “You think so, do you?”
他把手从眼睛上垂下来，眯起眼睛看着她。“你觉得是这样，是吗？”

“Yes. You’ve barely left your study this past week!”
“是的。你这周几乎没有离开过你的书房！

“As you have barely left the library?”
“你刚离开过图书馆？”

They glared at one another, faces tight, Hermione kneeling on the floor and Lucius looking down at her from his position on the sofa. The atmosphere was heavy with something unnamable – it went beyond tension. Unable to hold his gaze, painfully aware of the thoughts she’d been having, Hermione allowed her eyes to drift off to the side and she folded her arms protectively over her chest. 
他们面面相觑，脸色紧绷，赫敏跪在地板上，卢修斯从沙发上俯视着她。气氛沉重，带有某种无法名状的东西——它超越了紧张。赫敏无法控制住他的目光，痛苦地意识到她一直在想什么，她让她的眼睛移到一边，她把双臂交叉在胸前。

“I’d have found a way to come if you’d just asked,” she said eventually, barely loud enough for him to hear. If she’d returned to her flat that evening, she thought with a sinking feeling, and a letter from him had been waiting for her with that very request, she really might have. It alarmed her.
“如果你问我的话，我早就想办法来了，”她终于说了，声音勉强够他听见。如果那天晚上她回到了自己的公寓，她心里想着，而他的一封信正带着这个请求在等着她，她可能真的会这样做。这让她感到震惊。

He was quiet for a moment, watching her avoid his gaze, and then he said, “You’d like that, wouldn’t you?”
他沉默了一会儿，看着她避开他的目光，然后他说，“你喜欢这样，不是吗？

Before Hermione could even turn her head in his direction, Malfoy had reached out and grabbed her forearm, pulling her up into a tall kneel so that her face was almost level with his. Hermione cried out, tugging her arm but he held tight, jerking her closer so that their faces were mere inches apart.
赫敏甚至还没来得及把头转向他的方向，马尔福就伸手抓住了她的前臂，把她拉起来，高高地跪了下来，让她的脸几乎和他的脸齐平。赫敏大声喊道，拉着她的胳膊，但他紧紧地抓住了她，猛地把她拉得更近，以至于他们的脸相距只有几英寸。

“You’d like it if I begged you to come here,” he said, his voice low and angry. “You’d like to see me reduced to that.”
“如果我求你来这里，你会喜欢的，”他说，他的声音低沉而愤怒。“你希望看到我沦落到那样。”

Hermione stopped trying to pull away from him, so incensed she was frozen in place. “When have I ever given you the impression I’d like that?”
赫敏停止了试图从他身边抽离的企图，她被激怒了，僵在了原地。“我什么时候给你留下过我喜欢那样的印象？”

His eyes searched both of hers intently, then her face as a whole, roving over every line and curve. When he couldn’t find the lie he’d been looking for, the grip he had on her arm loosened to the point where it would have been easy for her to draw away but she didn’t. She leaned closer instead. 
他的眼睛聚精会神地打量着她的俩，然后是她的整个脸，在每一条线和曲线上游荡。当他找不到他一直在寻找的谎言时，他抓着她手臂的手松开了，她很容易抽离，但她没有。她反而靠得更近了。

“Never,” she breathed the word and he blinked as he felt it brush over his lips. "Out of the two of us, I’m the one that hasn’t spent decades of their life trying to reduce other people. Last week I told you I didn’t hate you. What things did you say to me?”
“从来没有，”她吐出这个词，当他感觉到这个词拂过他的嘴唇时，他眨了眨眼。“在我们两个人中，我是没有花几十年时间试图减少其他人的人。上周我告诉过你我不恨你。你对我说了什么？

He said nothing but his face told her that he was recalling their meeting, able to do so in as much detail as her. “Yes, you remember, don’t you?” Hermione asked. “Everything that’s happening is your own doing, Mr Malfoy. You don’t get to take your anger at the consequences of your own actions out on me. You don’t get to blame me. I won’t let you.” 
他什么也没说，但他的脸告诉她，他正在回忆他们的会面，能够像她一样详细地回忆起来。“是的，你记得，不是吗？”赫敏问道。“发生的一切都是你自己做的，马尔福先生。你不能把你对自己行为后果的愤怒发泄到我身上。你不能怪我。我不会让你的。

The only sound in the room was the quiet crackle of the fire and the tick of a clock from somewhere over Hermione’s shoulder. The longer the silence between them went on, the more her anger dimmed. Without it inflaming her, she became very aware of just how close her face was to his. It wasn’t until she shifted to move back from Malfoy that his hand tightened again, holding her in place.
房间里唯一的声音是火堆安静的噼啪声和赫敏肩膀上某个地方传来的时钟滴答声。他们之间的沉默持续得越久，她的怒火就越黯淡。没有激怒她，她非常清楚自己的脸和他的脸有多么接近。直到她转身从马尔福身边移开，他的手才再次收紧，将她固定在原地。

“Don’t,” he said, his mouth barely moving. “Don’t dare move.”
“别，”他说，嘴巴几乎一动不动。“不敢动。”

Hermione swallowed and met his eyes, realising she wouldn’t have been able to move even if she’d wanted to. Most of her anger had dissipated, replaced with a strange, fizzing feeling that could have been fear but could just as easily have been excitement. It was like being filled with static.
赫敏咽了口口水，与他的眼睛相遇，意识到即使她想动，她也动不了。她的大部分愤怒已经消散，取而代之的是一种奇怪的、嘶嘶作响的感觉，这种感觉可能是恐惧，但也很容易是兴奋。就像充满了静电。

Ever so slowly, Malfoy relinquished his hold on her arm. Transfixed, Hermione watched his hand travel up to brush one of her shorter curls out of her face. As the backs of his fingers ghosted over her cheek, she inhaled softly, her eyes fluttering closed and her chin lowering. She kept them closed as he trailed his hand down her neck, barely touching her, and tilted her head fractionally. Whether it was to move away from him or to offer him more skin to touch she couldn't be sure. 
马尔福慢慢地松开了他对她手臂的抓握。赫敏目瞪口呆地看着他的手向上移动，将她的一头短卷发从她的脸上拂下来。当他的指背在她的脸颊上滑过时，她轻轻地吸了一口气，她的眼睛颤抖着闭上，下巴低垂。当他的手顺着她的脖子滑下时，她一直闭着眼睛，几乎没有碰到她，并微微歪着她的头。她不确定是要远离他，还是给他更多的皮肤可以触摸。

His hand travelled back up, stopping at the soft skin beneath her chin to tilt her head up and hold it between his thumb and forefinger. Finally, Hermione opened her eyes to find his, grey and unsettled, looking right back.
他的手又往上伸，停在她下巴下柔软的皮肤上，把她的头歪起来，用拇指和食指夹住。终于，赫敏睁开眼睛，发现他的眼睛灰蒙蒙的，心神不安，正回头看去。

“You have no idea how much I want to blame you for this,” he said quietly, his hold on her chin fractionally tightening. Hermione swallowed, her tongue darting out to wet her lips. His eyes flicked down to watch the movement and Hermione saw him briefly clench his jaw.
“你不知道我有多想为此责怪你，”他轻声说，他抓着她的下巴稍微收紧了。赫敏咽了口口水，她的舌头伸出来打湿了她的嘴唇。他低头看了看这个动作，赫敏看到他短暂地咬紧了下巴。

“For what?” she asked, her voice hoarse. 
“为了什么？” 她问道，声音嘶哑。

Rather than respond, Malfoy slowly leaned forward and, with a final glance down at her mouth, he brushed his lips against hers. Hermione’s sharp intake of breath caught in her chest and her eyes remained fixed open. It could hardly be called a kiss, just the faintest touch. He didn’t draw back but exhaled shakily, his eyes closed as his forehead touched hers and his hand dropped from her face.
马尔福没有回应，而是慢慢地向前倾，最后低头看了她的嘴一眼，然后用嘴唇擦过她的嘴唇。赫敏急促的呼吸卡在她的胸口，她的眼睛一直睁着。这很难说是吻，只是最微弱的触碰。他没有后退，而是颤抖地呼出一口气，当他的额头碰到她的额头时，他闭上了眼睛，他的手从她的脸上滑落。

“Forgive me,” he said against her lips.
“原谅我，”他贴着她的嘴唇说。

To an onlooker, Hermione could have just been struck by a stray Petrificus Totalus. He wanted forgiveness. For what? For his treatment of her in the distant past? The recent past? Right now? All of the above? Maybe he didn’t even know. It was so bloody typical of him to ask for forgiveness without an overt apology – to leave the legwork to somebody else.
在旁观者看来，赫敏可能只是被一只流浪的 Petrificus Totalus 击中了。他想要宽恕。为什么？因为他在遥远的过去对她的对待？最近的过去？马上？以上所有？也许他甚至不知道。他请求原谅而不公开道歉是如此血腥的典型——把跑腿的工作留给别人。

His forehead was warm and hard against hers, his breath ticklish against her face. She could still feel his lips just barely touching hers, lingering and tingling. Much like that time she’d had a mild allergic reaction to shellfish. He wasn’t moving. What was he doing? What had he done ? She wasn’t sure if he was going to do it again. She wasn’t sure if she wanted him to. 
他的额头温暖而坚硬地贴在她的脸上，他的呼吸在她的脸上发痒。她仍然能感觉到他的嘴唇勉强碰到她的嘴唇，徘徊和刺痛。就像那次她对贝类有轻微的过敏反应一样。他一动也不动。他在做什么？他做了什么？她不确定他是否会再来一次。她不确定自己是否希望他这样做。

“I really think you should get some essence of murtlap for your leg,” Hermione whispered into his face, not at all sure what else she could possibly say in response to what had just happened.
“我真的觉得你应该给你的腿买点浑枸成精华，”赫敏对着他的脸低声说，完全不确定她还能说什么来回应刚刚发生的事情。

“Granger,” he said, his eyes still closed and his voice quiet but containing traces of audible exasperation.
“格兰杰，”他说，他的眼睛仍然闭着，声音很安静，但包含着一丝可听见的愤怒。

“Or maybe dittany. I mean, it seemed like the Magic Dampener was mostly causing a Cruciatus-like pain—very internal—but that cuff was definitely roasting hot—”
“或者也许是 dittany。我是说，看起来魔法阻尼器主要造成了十字架般的疼痛——非常内在——但那个袖口肯定是热乎乎的——”

“Granger.”
“格兰杰。”

“I can already see a burn forming and if you don’t take care of it, it could very well—”
“我已经能看到烧伤的形成，如果你不小心处理它，它很可能——”

“ Granger.” Lifting his head he drew back but only by a few centimetres, his grey eyes boring into hers. 
“格兰杰。” 他抬起头，向后退了几厘米，他灰色的眼睛钻进了她的眼睛。

“What?”
“什么？”

“Stop prattling.”
“别喋喋不休了。”

“Prattling,” Hermione said flatly. “ Prattling ?” she repeated, vengefully pleased by the cringe on his face as her voice rose an octave. 
“叽叽喳喳，”赫敏平淡地说。“叽叽喳喳？”她重复道，当她的声音提高了一个八度时，他脸上的畏缩使他报复性地高兴。

“Yes,” he said through gritted teeth.
“是的，”他咬牙切齿地说。

“Prattling," Hermione repeated faintly. Abruptly, she shoved his chest, though she barely succeeded in moving him more than centimetre and only earned herself an offended scowl. "Perhaps you can forgive me for being a little less than certain over what to say, Malfoy," she snapped. "You just kissed me in case you didn’t notice ." 
“叽叽喳喳，”赫敏淡淡地重复道。突然，她推了推他的胸膛，尽管她勉强成功地将他移动了一厘米多，只是为自己赢得了一个被冒犯的皱眉。“也许你可以原谅我对该说什么有点不确定，马尔福，”她厉声说。“你刚刚吻了我，以防你没注意到。”

“Yes, I’m aware. I just wanted to see,” he said, as though he’d maybe just done something as simple and innocent as place a hat on her head to check that it suited her complexion.
“是的，我知道。我只是想看看，“他说，仿佛他可能只是做了一件简单而无辜的事情，比如在她的头上戴一顶帽子，看看它是否适合她的肤色。

“You wanted to see ,” Hermione said, incredulity making her pitch rise further. “See what ?”
“你想看看，”赫敏说，怀疑使她的音调进一步提高。“看到什么了？”

“Now you’re becoming shrill,” he said, his brow pulling into a frown of displeasure. 
“现在你变得尖锐了，”他说，他的眉头不悦地皱起了眉头。

Hermione pulled her head back with a disbelieving laugh, feeling light-headed. “Shrill? I’m becoming shrill? How would you feel if, without warning, I just kissed you to see ? Whatever that even bloody means, by the way, you unscrupulous dolt. You’d be furious and more than a little bit shrill, I’d imagine.”
赫敏难以置信地笑着把头往后拉，感觉头晕目眩。“尖锐？我变得尖锐了？如果我毫无征兆地亲吻了你，你会有什么感觉？不管那血腥意味着什么，顺便说一句，你这个不择手段的家伙。我想你会很生气，而且会不止一点点尖锐。

“No, I wouldn’t.”
“不，我不会。”

Hermione’s shoulders swiftly dropped, like sails suddenly starved of wind. He seemed very sure of himself but, then, he was very good at that. “Yes you would,” she said, eyeing him as that strange fizzing feeling returned to her stomach. “Don’t lie.”
赫敏的肩膀迅速地垂下，就像船帆突然没有风一样。他似乎对自己非常有信心，但后来，他非常擅长这一点。“是的，你会的，”她说，看着他，那种奇怪的嘶嘶作响的感觉又回到了她的胃里。“别撒谎。”

“Why don’t you find out,” he said, his tone perfectly reasonable but with a dangerous glint in his eye that should have scared her. Instead it sent an alarming thrum of excitement through her.
“你为什么不找出来，”他说，他的语气非常合理，但他的眼睛里闪烁着危险的光芒，这本应该让她感到害怕。相反，这让她感到一阵令人震惊的兴奋。

Yet she didn’t move and nor did he. Hermione had a feeling that he wouldn’t do anything until she either rose to his challenge or backed down. He would just sit there like the useless, stubborn Pure-blood lump that he was. 
然而她没有动，他也没有。赫敏有一种感觉，除非她要么迎接他的挑战，要么退缩，否则他不会做任何事情。他就坐在那里，就像他那个无用的、顽固的纯血团一样。

Huffing out a discomfited sigh, Hermione looked into his face. His perfectly calm face. He’d kissed her to see. To see what exactly? Her eyes dropped down to his lips and, noticing it, he smirked.
赫敏不安地叹了口气，看着他的脸。他那张非常平静的脸。他吻了她看看。到底看到什么？她的眼睛垂到他的嘴唇上，注意到这一点，他得意地笑了。

“Stop smirking,” Hermione said softly, her face drifting back towards his. “It annoys the life out of me.” His smirk only grew and Hermione dragged her eyes up to his to pin him with an angry glare. 
“别傻笑了，”赫敏轻声说，她的脸飘向他的脸。“这让我的生活很烦恼。”他的笑容越来越大，赫敏把眼睛抬到他身上，用愤怒的目光瞪着他。

Good God , he was endlessly frustrating. Taking a deep breath like she was going underwater, Hermione closed her eyes and, giving into her insistent curiosity, moved her head forward to brush her lips against his the way he had done to her. 
天哪，他无休止地令人沮丧。赫敏像要下水一样深吸一口气，闭上眼睛，屈服于她持续的好奇心，把头向前移动，用他的嘴唇擦过他的嘴唇，就像他对她所做的那样。

It wasn’t really enough to see anything. He was terrible at experiments. 
仅仅看到任何东西是不够的。他在实验方面很糟糕。

Frowning, Hermione pressed more firmly. Lucius tensed with shock for a fraction of a second before he relaxed and returned the pressure, his lips soft and fitting perfectly against hers.
赫敏皱着眉头，用力地压迫着。卢修斯震惊地绷紧了几分之一秒，然后他放松下来并回应了压力，他的嘴唇柔软而完美地贴在她的嘴唇上。

Oh no .
哦不。

Her left hand moved onto his knee for support as she leaned further into him, her right landing on his chest and her fingers curling into his shirt. Responding, he slid a hand up her neck into her curls, pulling her closer and deepening the kiss as she let out a muffled sound of surprise into his mouth.
她的左手移到他的膝盖上寻求支撑，同时她进一步靠向他，她的右手落在他的胸前，她的手指卷曲在他的衬衫里。作为回应，他将一只手滑到她的脖子上，进入她的卷发，将她拉得更近，并在她从他的嘴里发出低沉的惊讶声音时加深了这个吻。

A distant, detached part of Hermione’s brain—the part that resolutely and reliably refused to get lost in any moment—was screaming at her. Just what the fuck did she think she was doing? Had she lost every other part of her mind? Did she realise who she was kissing? But Hermione ignored it and carried on because the kiss was actually good and she wanted more of it. Maybe that had been what he’d been trying to see. She certainly felt like she was having some kind of epiphany.
赫敏大脑中一个遥远的、超然的部分——坚决而可靠地拒绝在任何时刻迷失的部分——正在向她尖叫。她他妈的以为自己在做什么？她是不是已经失去了理智的所有其他部分？她意识到自己在亲吻谁吗？但赫敏没有理会它，继续前进，因为这个吻其实很好，她想要更多。也许这就是他一直想看到的。她当然觉得自己有某种顿悟。

His tongue— Lucius Malfoy’s bloody tongue , that never-ceasing part of her brain screamed—ran along her bottom lip and, without hesitation, Hermione parted her lips for him. As their tongues met, a small moan escaped her mouth into his and, in response, his hand on her waist tightened its grip, fisting in her t-shirt. She could taste the tang of firewhiskey on him and wondered if he could taste the sweetness of the port she’d been drinking. 
他的舌头——卢修斯·马尔福那血淋淋的舌头，她大脑中那不停地尖叫着的部分——沿着她的下唇滑过，赫敏毫不犹豫地为他分开了嘴唇。当他们的舌头相遇时，她的嘴里发出了一声小小的呻吟，作为回应，他抓着她腰的手紧紧地握住了她的 T 恤。她能尝到他身上火威士忌的味道，想知道他是否能尝到她一直在喝的波特酒的甜味。

The kiss was urgent, competitive, both of them escalating with increasing hunger. As her hold on his shirt tightened, her fingers sliding between the buttons to graze the skin of his chest, his hand in her curls did the same. She could feel a pleasurable pulling at her scalp that made her gasp, her mouth opening wider for him.
这个吻很紧急，很有竞争性，他们俩都随着饥饿感的增加而升级。当她紧紧抓住他的衬衫，她的手指在纽扣之间滑动，擦过他胸前的皮肤时，他的手在她的卷发中也做了同样的事情。她能感觉到一阵愉快的拉扯她的头皮，让她喘息，她的嘴巴向他张得更大。

Not satisfied with being put on the backfoot like that, Hermione slid her hand on his knee dangerously far up his thigh, squeezing in a way that drew a groan from somewhere deep in his chest. 
赫敏不满足于这样被人踢倒，她将手危险地滑到他的膝盖上，沿着他的大腿滑得很远，挤压的方式让他胸口深处发出呻吟。

In retaliation, his hand on her waist moved to the hem of her t-shirt, his fingers drifting down to stroke her bare skin. She could feel him inching the t-shirt up before he gripped her tightly over her, frankly least attractive, knickers. She didn’t care how her knickers looked, though. All she cared about was the fact that his fingers were now skimming the edge of them with the clear intention of getting into them.
作为报复，他放在她腰上的手移到了她的 T 恤下摆，他的手指滑下来抚摸她裸露的皮肤。她能感觉到他把T恤慢慢地掀起来，然后他紧紧地抓住了她，坦率地说，最没有吸引力的短裤。不过，她并不在乎她的短裤是什么样子。她只关心他的手指现在正在掠过它们的边缘，显然是想进入它们。

Despite how good the kiss felt, there was a persistent pain developing in Hermione’s knees which wasn’t all that surprising given they were bare and she was kneeling on a hard floor. Breaking away from Lucius, she winced and panted “my knees” in response to his irritated and almost resentful expression. 
尽管这个吻感觉很好，但赫敏的膝盖上还是有一种持续的疼痛，这并不奇怪，因为他们是光着的，而且她跪在坚硬的地板上。她挣脱了卢修斯，畏缩着，喘着粗气，以回应他恼怒和近乎怨恨的表情。

His eyes swept down her body as though he was doing some very quick calculations and Hermione steeled herself, sincerely hoping that he wasn’t going to make some jibe about her being in her proper place. 
他的眼睛扫过她的身体，仿佛在做一些非常快速的计算，赫敏让自己振作起来，真诚地希望他不会对她在正确的位置上做出一些嘲笑。

In what seemed to be becoming a habit, however, he surprised her. Hooking his arm around her back and tightening his hand already gripped around the back of her upper thigh, he hauled her upwards, grunting with the effort. Hermione yelped as the ground disappeared beneath her but its hardness was replaced by the soft leather of the sofa on either side of his hips. 
然而，他似乎已经成为一种习惯，这让她感到惊讶。他用手臂勾住她的背，收紧已经握住她大腿后部的手，把她往上拉，用力地咕哝着。赫敏大喊着，她脚下的地面消失了，但它的坚硬被他臀部两侧沙发的柔软皮革所取代。

Panting, Hermione stared down at him, wondering if she’d ever actually looked down at Lucius Malfoy. She liked it.
赫敏喘着粗气，低头盯着他，想知道她是否真的看过卢修斯·马尔福。她喜欢它。

“Better?” he asked.
“好些了吗？”

Not quite trusting herself to use words, Hermione nodded hurriedly and met him for another bruising kiss. She’d always known his lips were meant for more than sneering and smirking. Kissing wouldn’t have been her first instinct, though.  Malfoy ran kisses along the underside of her jaw and down her neck, the sensation making Hermione grip him with what she was sure must be a painful tightness. Raising her chin to give him better access, she slid her knees wider, deepening her straddle on his lap. 
赫敏不太相信自己会用语言，她急忙点点头，然后迎上他，又一个瘀伤的吻。她一直都知道他的嘴唇不仅仅是用来嘲笑和傻笑的。不过，接吻并不是她的第一反应。马尔福沿着她的下巴下侧和脖子亲吻，这种感觉让赫敏用她确信一定是一种痛苦的紧绷抓住了他。抬起下巴让他更好地接近，她把膝盖滑得更宽，加深了她在他腿上的跨坐在地上。

Feeling her descent onto him, Malfoy leaned back against the sofa and his hands followed the path up her thighs that was so familiar to her from her dreams. Entranced, Hermione leaned back to watch them move, the light from the fire catching the emeralds on his silver ring and making them glint and wink at her. 
感觉到她落在他身上，马尔福向后靠在沙发上，他的手顺着她大腿上的小路走，这对她来说是如此熟悉。赫敏被迷住了，向后靠着看他们移动，火光照在他银戒指上的祖母绿上，让它们闪闪发光，向她眨眨眼。

Heat flared at her core and an anticipatory whimper left her lips when his fingertips reached the bottom of her t-shirt to begin pushing it up. His thumbs, stroking up the insides of her thighs, reached a ticklish point and she squirmed against him, her hips pressing down and forward, inadvertently grinding firmly against the hardness straining in his trousers. 
她的内心燃烧着热量，当他的指尖触及她的 T 恤底部开始将其向上推时，她的嘴唇发出了期待的呜咽。他的拇指抚摸着她的大腿内侧，达到了一个痒痒的点，她在他身上蠕动着，她的臀部向下和向前挤压，不经意间用力地摩擦着他裤子里的坚硬。

“Granger,” he said with something between a gasp and a groan, his fingers stopping their journey upwards to sink into her skin as his eyes squeezed closed.
“格兰杰，”他用介于喘息和呻吟之间的语气说，他的手指停下了向上的步伐，在他紧闭的眼睛里沉入她的皮肤。

Feeling that Malfoy was hard for her was the thing that finally made Hermione take pause and listen to that screaming voice in the back of her head. It was possible that it made the entire moment feel very real, or that it made it absolutely clear where the night was going if she didn’t stop it. 
马尔福对她来说很难受的感觉是最终让赫敏停下来，听听她脑后那个尖叫的声音。有可能它让整个时刻感觉非常真实，或者如果她不阻止它，它就绝对清楚地表明了夜晚的走向。

Whatever it was, Hermione immediately tensed up, her hands withdrawing from his chest and her body becoming solid and unresponsive like a statue. Malfoy responded in kind, his hold on her thighs loosening and lifting until his hands were just about hovering over her. Goosebumps formed on her skin as though her body was straining to regain the connection.
不管是什么，赫敏立刻绷紧了起来，她的手从他的胸口抽了出来，她的身体变得像一尊雕像一样坚实而毫无反应。马尔福也以同样的方式回应，他对她大腿的抓握松开又抬起，直到他的手几乎悬停在她身上。她的皮肤上起了鸡皮疙瘩，仿佛她的身体正在努力恢复连接。

Chests heaving, their gazes slowly rose from Hermione’s legs to meet. Hermione had no idea what her face must look like but Malfoy looked unexpectedly defensive, like he was waiting for her to shout at him. Or laugh at him.
胸膛起伏着，他们的目光慢慢地从赫敏的腿上抬起，对上。赫敏不知道她的脸会是什么样子，但马尔福出乎意料地显得防备，就像他在等她对他大喊大叫一样。或者嘲笑他。

“Oh, God.” Hermione shook her head, desperately searching for words that were right for such a situation. They didn’t exist. They just didn’t. “This isn’t – we can’t – we can’t do this.”
“哦，上帝。”赫敏摇摇头，拼命寻找适合这种情况的词语。他们不存在。他们就是没有。“这不是——我们不能——我们不能这样做。”

“We very much are ,” he pointed out, a subtle petulance in his tone that, in any other situation, Hermione might have found amusing. 
“我们非常喜欢，”他指出，语气中带着一种微妙的任性，在任何其他情况下，赫敏可能会觉得很有趣。

They were not, however, in any other situation. They were very much in their present situation and it was a situation that was making a frenetic energy gather in Hermione's extremities, leaving them trembling. 
然而，他们没有处于任何其他情况下。他们现在的情况非常糟糕，这种情况让一股疯狂的能量聚集在赫敏的四肢中，让他们颤抖。

She considered the man beneath her, his shirt creased from where she’d grabbed it, his lips slightly swollen from her kisses, his eyes dark with desire. For her . 
她看着身下的男人，他的衬衫从她抓住它的地方起皱，他的嘴唇因她的亲吻而略微肿胀，他的眼睛因欲望而漆黑。对她来说 .

Why was she stopping it? She had been enjoying it. But he was who he was and she was who she was and didn’t that just make it…wrong? A mutual attraction didn’t suddenly make it okay. Did it? 
她为什么要阻止它？她一直很享受。但他就是他，她就是她，这不就是......错？相互吸引并没有突然好起来。是吗？

Maybe it did. 
也许确实如此。

Couldn’t two consenting adults do whatever they wanted if they weren’t hurting anyone else? Or one another? Then why did she feel so guilty? Guilty for wanting this man. This terrible man who she was only too aware could hate as fiercely as he loved.
两个自愿的成年人在不伤害别人的情况下，就不能为所欲为吗？还是彼此？那她为什么感到如此内疚呢？想要这个男人的罪恶感。这个可怕的男人，她只是太清楚了，他可以像爱一样强烈地恨。

“I…I don’t know,” she said, shaking her head weakly. “I don’t know what I—”
“我......我不知道，“她说，虚弱地摇了摇头。“我不知道我是什么——”

Overwhelmed, Hermione lifted herself off his lap and dropped herself onto the sofa beside him with a heavy thump . Scooting around so that her back was against the sofa, she pulled her knees up to her chest and protectively wrapped her arms around her shins. 
赫敏不知所措，从他的腿上站起来，重重地砰地一声，把自己砰的一声扔在了他旁边的沙发上。她快步走来，让她的背靠在沙发上，她把膝盖拉到胸前，保护性地用手臂搂住她的小腿。

The heat of the moment was definitively gone and Hermione suddenly felt overly exposed and deeply uncomfortable with how damp her knickers were. The fire crackled merrily across from them and she stared into it, curling her toes as its warmth reached them. Malfoy’s hands had been warmer. 
这一刻的热度终于消失了，赫敏突然感到过度暴露，对她的内裤潮湿感到非常不舒服。火堆在他们对面欢快地噼啪作响，她凝视着它，当它的温暖触及他们时，她的脚趾蜷缩着。马尔福的手更暖和了。

"Oh my God," she murmured to herself, stopping just short of rocking back and forth. "Oh my God. "
“哦，我的上帝，”她喃喃自语，来回摇晃时停了下来。“哦，我的上帝。”

"Would you stop panicking," Lucius said irritably.
“你能不能别惊慌了，”卢修斯烦躁地说。

"Would you start ?" In the last word, Hermione just about heard the shrillness of which he’d accused her. Resentment pulled her back from her spiral and she took a deep, calming breath.
“你愿意开始吗？”在最后一个字中，赫敏几乎听到了他指责她的尖酸刻薄。怨恨将她从漩涡中拉了回来，她深深地吸了一口气，平静下来。

Beside her Lucius sighed, bringing his hands up to rub them down his face before crossing his arms. “I thought you told me that Gryffindors act in spite of their fear rather than allow themselves to be led by it,” he said, staring straight ahead like her. 
在她身边，卢修斯叹了口气，抬起双手在他的脸上擦了擦，然后交叉双臂。“我以为你告诉我，格兰芬多们不顾恐惧而行动，而不是让自己被恐惧所引导，”他说，像她一样直视着前方。

“I’m not afraid,” snapped Hermione, aware that her point was undermined by the fact that she could barely bring herself to look at him.
“我不怕，”赫敏厉声说，她意识到她的观点被她几乎无法让自己看向他的事实所削弱。

“Aren’t you?” he asked, his voice arch. “It appears to me that you’re rather afraid of what you want. Of course, Gryffindors have never been particularly good at reckoning with their more base desires. You’d all rather pretend you don’t have them.”
“不是吗？” 他问道，声音弯起。“在我看来，你相当害怕你想要的东西。当然，格兰芬多从来都不是特别擅长考虑他们更卑微的愿望。你们宁愿假装没有它们。

Turning her head, Hermione rested her temple against her knees and surveyed his profile, noting the undercurrent of self-justification in his words. “We don’t always want what’s good for us. You of all people know that.”
赫敏转过头，将太阳穴靠在膝盖上，打量着他的侧视图，注意到他话语中暗流涌动的自我辩解。“我们并不总是想要对我们有利的东西。你们都知道这一点。

“Do you think I’ll hurt you?” he asked, his eyes sliding over to her. His tone was hard, a touch derisive, but Hermione got the sense that he genuinely wanted to know. Perhaps even cared. 
“你觉得我会伤害你吗？” 他问道，眼睛滑向她。他的语气很严厉，有点嘲讽，但赫敏感觉到他真的想知道。也许甚至在乎。

“No, not anymore,” she said, lifting her head and resting her chin on her knees. “Not on purpose, anyway.” 
“不，现在不行了，”她说，抬起头，把下巴靠在膝盖上。“反正不是故意的。”

They lapsed into silence, both staring into the fire with a heightened awareness of the arm that was mere inches from their own. Hermione thought back to her intention from only hours before—her intention to retreat into professionalism—and had to hold back a snort. That was long gone. 
他们陷入了沉默，两人都盯着火堆，对离他们自己只有几英寸远的手臂有了更高的意识。赫敏回想起几个小时前的意图——她打算退回到职业化——不得不忍住哼了一声。那早就过去了。

Eyes closing, Hermione sighed softly through her nose and lowered her chin to lean her forehead against her knees as she tried to process what had happened. “Okay," she finally said on an exhale, "do you think we should talk abo—”
赫敏闭上眼睛，从鼻子里轻轻地叹了口气，低下下巴，将额头靠在膝盖上，试图理解发生的事情。“好吧，”她终于呼出一口气说，“你觉得我们应该谈谈吗——”

“No,” he said firmly. 
“不，”他坚定地说。

“We can’t just pretend it didn’t happen.”
“我们不能只是假装它没有发生。”

“Why are you so singularly focused on what we can’t do this evening? Is there anything we can do?”
“你为什么这么专注于我们今晚不能做的事情？我们能做些什么吗？

“Yes,” Hermione ground out. “We can talk about it.”
“是的，”赫敏停下脚步。“我们可以谈谈。”

“There’s nothing to talk about,” Lucius insisted, his tone growing increasingly irate. 
“没什么好谈的，”卢修斯坚持道，他的语气越来越愤怒。

“Really?” Hermione asked dryly, lifting her head fully from her knees to look at him properly. “There’s nothing to talk about? Nothing in what just happened strikes you as worthy of discussion?”
“真的吗？”赫敏干巴巴地问道，把头从膝盖上完全抬起来，好好地看着他。“没什么好谈的吗？刚才发生的事情没有什么是值得讨论的吗？

“Not especially,” he said shortly. “It happened and you are, as I said, obviously afraid of what you want.”
“不是特别的，”他很快说。“事情发生了，正如我所说，你显然害怕你想要什么。”

“I am not— ” Hermione cut herself off and looked straight ahead, clenching her jaw tight while she counted to ten. When she felt calm enough she lightly cleared her throat and turned her attention back to him.
“我不是——”赫敏打断了自己，直视着前方，紧紧咬住下巴，数到十。当她感到足够平静时，她轻轻地清了清嗓子，将注意力转回了他身上。

“Can you at least tell me how long you’ve…” Hermione drifted off, lifting her shoulders helplessly. “You know .”
“你至少能告诉我你已经有多久了......”赫敏飘走了，无助地抬起了肩膀。“你知道的。”

He didn't even look at her, instead studying the fire for a time as though he might find an answer in it. “There isn’t a single moment I can pinpoint,” he eventually said quietly, with a reticent shrug of his shoulders. 
他甚至没有看她一眼，而是研究了一会儿火，仿佛他可以在里面找到答案。“我无法确定任何一个时刻，”他最终轻声说，沉默地耸了耸肩。

“It crept up on you,” she said, just about holding back a sigh of relief that he had, at least, said something. It was even more of a relief that it was something to which she could relate — a creeping attraction was, she rather felt, what had happened to her.
“它悄悄地向你袭来，”她说，只是忍住松了一口气，因为他至少说了些什么。更令人欣慰的是，这是她能与之产生共鸣的东西——她更愿意感觉到，一种悄悄的吸引力，就是发生在她身上的事情。

He nodded his head once, his chest rising and falling with a quiet sigh. “And I resisted it.”
他点了一下头，胸膛起伏，轻声叹息。“我抗拒了。”

“Why did you stop?” she asked, her voice hushed. “Resisting, I mean.”
“你为什么停下来？” 她小声问道。“我是说，反抗。”

Lucius finally looked at her, eyes combing her face, and she thought he appeared almost weary. “I find I am really rather tired , Miss Granger.”
卢修斯终于看着她，眼睛梳理着她的脸，她觉得他看起来几乎疲惫不堪。“我发现我真的很累，格兰杰小姐。”

Hermione gripped her legs tighter and tore her eyes away from his, a horrid sick feeling bubbling low in her belly as she tucked her chin back into her knees. It sounded very much like he was giving up and that liking her was his rock bottom. The idea of that hurt her a surprising amount, which was panic-inducing in and of itself – to care was to give him power over her and she had never given him that.
赫敏把她的双腿抓得更紧了，把目光从他的身上移开，当她把下巴缩回膝盖时，一种可怕的恶心感在她的肚子里低低地冒泡。这听起来很像他要放弃了，喜欢她是他的谷底。这个想法对她的伤害出乎意料，这本身就令人恐慌——关心就是给他凌驾于她之上的权力，而她从来没有给过他这种权力。

“I’ve long hated my father,” he continued, oblivious to the way her body was drawing into itself as though preparing for violent impact, “yet I spent a large portion of my life using my relation to him to claim some kind of delusory superiority over you. You, who, after some reflection, I’ve found I do not hate at all.”
“我一直都恨我的父亲，”他继续说道，对她的身体正在自我收缩的样子视而不见，仿佛在为猛烈的冲击做准备，“然而我花了我生命中的大部分时间，利用我和他的关系来声称对你有某种妄想的优越感。你，经过一番思考，我发现我一点也不恨。

Hermione’s chin rose from its position on her knees and she looked at him, not quite sure she was hearing him properly. 
赫敏的下巴从膝盖上抬起，她看着他，不太确定自己是否听错了他。

“Not at all,” he added quietly, seemingly to himself. Sighing, he tipped his head back into the sofa. “I have no reason to resist. None that I’m particularly interested in entertaining, anyway. And, as I said, I’m tired.” Lucius shook his head with a defeated air. “You told me early in our acquaintance that by working with you I might finally discover what it is that I want. It’s you, apparently.”
“一点也不，”他悄悄地补充道，似乎是在自言自语。他叹了口气，把头歪回沙发上。“我没有理由抗拒。反正我不是特别感兴趣的娱乐。而且，正如我所说，我累了。卢修斯带着挫败的神情摇了摇头。“你很早就告诉我，通过与你合作，我最终可能会发现我想要的是什么。显然是你。

His words caused a stirring swoop low in Hermione’s stomach. She’d felt how much he wanted her in the kiss but to hear it said aloud, to hear him actually acknowledge it, was something else. Something frightening and thrilling at the same time. A sense that he was handing her some power.
他的话在赫敏的胃里引起了一阵激荡。她感觉到他多么想要她在这个吻中，但听到大声说出来，听到他真正承认，是另一回事。既可怕又刺激。一种他正在给她一些力量的感觉。

“It’s hardly the outcome that I expected,” he added, turning his head to look at her with a furrowed brow. “But, well…I suppose I'm becoming accustomed to that.”
“这几乎不是我预期的结果，”他补充道，转过头看着她，皱着眉头。“但是，嗯......我想我已经习惯了。

Nodding slowly, Hermione looked back to the fire. It was hardly the outcome that she had expected either. Because she wanted him too. She just couldn’t say it aloud; if she did, they might go back to what they’d been doing and they couldn’t . They just couldn’t.
赫敏缓缓地点点头，回头看向火堆。这也几乎不是她所期望的结果。因为她也想要他。她就是不能大声说出来;如果她这样做了，他们可能会回到他们一直在做的事情上，但他们不能。他们就是做不到。

“I really am sorry I missed our meeting today, you know,” she said softly. “I had been avoiding you but that wasn’t why I didn’t show up. I fully intended to face you.”
“我真的很抱歉错过了我们今天的会议，你知道的，”她轻声说。“我一直在躲避你，但这不是我没有出现的原因。我完全打算面对你。

He nodded, his crossed arms tightening. “It’s possible being locked in the manor gives me too much time to think.”
他点点头，交叉的双臂收紧了。“可能被锁在庄园里让我有太多时间思考。”

“Too much time to drink, as well, I reckon,” Hermione added darkly, her head turning in the direction of his desk where two bottles of firewhiskey—one empty and one clearly recently opened—sat on its surface.
“我想，喝酒的时间也太多了，”赫敏阴沉地补充道，她的头转向他的书桌方向，那里有两瓶火威士忌——一瓶是空的，一瓶显然是最近打开的——放在桌子上。

“Good grief, Granger,” Lucius said sourly. “I can honestly say I’ve never met a witch more adept at dampening ardour.”
“真伤心，格兰杰，”卢修斯酸溜溜地说。“老实说，我从来没有见过比她更擅长抑制热情的女巫。”

“Am I wrong ?” Hermione asked, raising her eyebrows.
“我错了吗？”赫敏扬起眉毛问道。

“No, but you’re monstrously judgemental. I didn’t have that much.” 
“不，但你太过评判了。我没有那么多。

Hermione eyed him sceptically. To his credit, he didn’t seem completely away with it. Her eyes drifted down his body, recalling the way she’d been pressed against it just moments before. Clearly he hasn’t drunk enough to affect his ability t o … Catching her thoughts, Hermione hurriedly diverted her focus to his knees. “I’m sorry about your trousers, too.”
赫敏怀疑地看着他。值得称赞的是，他似乎并没有完全摆脱它。她的目光顺着他的身体飘落，回想起刚才她被压在身上的样子。 显然，他还没有喝得足够多，以至于影响了他的能力......赫敏抓住了她的想法，急忙将注意力转移到他的膝盖上。“我也对不起你的裤子。”

He gave a rueful hum, straightening his leg at the knee to assess the damage she’d done. “Perhaps it will catch on.”
他哀伤地哼了一声，伸直了膝盖处的腿，评估她造成的伤害。“也许它会流行起来。”

Hermione giggled into her knees and he cast her a look that, while not quite as amused, was not lacking warmth. Her smile slowly faded as she looked into his eyes and down at his lips, devastated to feel an insistent tug of longing in her lower stomach.
赫敏对着她的膝盖咯咯地笑着，他看了她一眼，虽然不那么有趣，但并不缺乏温暖。当她看着他的眼睛和他的嘴唇时，她的笑容慢慢消失了，她感到下腹部持续不断的渴望拉扯着，这让她感到非常沮丧。

“You asked me to forgive you,” she said. "Do you remember?"
“你让我原谅你，”她说。“你还记得吗？”

“Did I?” Suddenly, he sounded quite bored. Unconvincingly so. If he thought that was going to deter her he had another thing coming.
“是吗？”突然间，他听起来很无聊。这并不令人信服。如果他认为这会阻止她，那他还有另一件事要来。

“Yes,” she continued insistently. “You did. That implies that you’re sorry for something. For kissing me?"
“是的，”她坚持地继续说。“你做到了。这意味着你为某事感到抱歉。因为吻我？

There was a pause in which Malfoy shifted uncomfortably. "I'm not sorry for that."
停顿了一下，马尔福不舒服地动了动。“我并不为此感到遗憾。”

"Then what?"
“然后呢？”

Lucius sighed through his nose, his body tensing and his face shuttering. “You don’t have that absurd recording device with you so perhaps we can cease with the questions for once.”
卢修斯从鼻子里叹了口气，他的身体紧绷着，脸色发呆。“你身上没有那个荒谬的录音设备，所以也许我们可以暂时停止这些问题。”

“No. We can’t. Did you mean it?”
“不。我们不能。你是认真的吗？

"Mean what?"
“什么意思？”

"That you want forgiveness ," Hermione said, exasperated. "From me."
“你想要原谅，”赫敏生气地说。“从我这里。”

“What if I said I didn’t mean it?”
“如果我说我不是故意的呢？”

Lips parting, Hermione inspected him, a frown pulling down her brows and her tongue curling back to touch the roof of her mouth. “I don’t think I’d believe you.”
嘴唇张开，赫敏打量着他，皱着眉头，舌头向后卷曲，触碰到她的上颚。“我想我不会相信你。”

“Well then, I suppose it doesn’t matter what answer I give, does it?”
“那么，我想我给出什么答案并不重要，对吧？”

Hermione blinked at him. It was like trying to pin down smoke. “Now who’s afraid?” she asked.
赫敏朝他眨了眨眼。这就像试图控制烟雾。“现在谁害怕呢？”

Lucius shot her a sharp look and Hermione raised an eyebrow in challenge. “Of course, Slytherins have never been particularly good at reckoning with their more noble desires,” she said in an exaggerated imitation of his clipped tones. “You’d all rather pretend you don’t have them.”
卢修斯狠狠地瞪了她一眼，赫敏挑衅地扬起了眉毛。“当然，斯莱特林从来都不是特别善于考虑他们更崇高的愿望，”她夸张地模仿着他那剪断的语气说。“你们宁愿假装你没有它们。”

Lucius’ lip curled and he snorted derisively before mumbling something barely audible about how he doubted there was anything noble about grovelling.
卢修斯的嘴唇弯起，嘲讽地哼了一声，然后喃喃自语着，说他怎么怀疑卑躬屈膝有什么高尚的。

“I don't view sincerely asking for forgiveness as grovelling,” Hermione said tightly. “So, tell me: what do you want forgiveness for?”
“我不认为真诚地请求原谅是卑躬屈膝，”赫敏紧紧地说。“所以，告诉我：你想要原谅什么？”

Lucius tched impatiently, irately crossing his legs at the ankles and then wincing as the sudden movement jerked his injured leg. “You know what for,” he bit out, glowering at the fire so that he didn’t have to look at her.
卢修斯不耐烦地嘶吼着，愤怒地将双腿交叉在脚踝处，然后因为突然的动作抽搐了他受伤的腿而畏缩。“你知道为什么，”他咬牙切齿，瞪着火堆，这样他就不必看她了。

“I want to hear it.”
“我想听。”

There was a long silence in which Hermione stared at Lucius while he pretended he couldn’t feel the weight of it. His discomfort was given away by the lift of his shoulders and the tight press of his fingers on his own crossed arms. 
赫敏盯着卢修斯看了很久，而他则假装感觉不到它的重量。他的肩膀抬起，手指紧紧地按压着他交叉的双臂，使他的不适消失了。

“Everything,” he finally said, his tone aggravated but his posture relaxing as he finally let the word go. “Everything, you ceaseless harridan.” He turned to her, his expression a tumultuous mix of sincerity and reluctance. “I am sorry . For all of it.”
“一切都，”他终于说了，他的语气变得加重，但他的姿势放松了，因为他终于放下了这个词。“一切，你这个没完没了的哈里达人。”他转向她，他的表情是真诚和不情愿的混合。“我很抱歉。为了这一切。

Some of the discomfort that had been festering in the centre of Hermione’s chest evaporated, making it easier to breathe. Capable of regret. Capable of remorse . “I believe you.” Hermione nodded primly, only a small waver in her voice, though it was enough to draw his attention. “I’m glad you want forgiveness. One day I might be able to give it to you.” 
赫敏胸口中央溃烂的一些不适感消失了，呼吸变得更容易了。 能够后悔。能够懊悔。“我相信你。”赫敏郑重地点了点头，她的声音里只有一丝颤抖，尽管这已经足够引起他的注意了。“我很高兴你想要原谅。总有一天我也许能把它给你。

Lucius’ angry eyes bored into hers before a breathy, disbelieving laugh escaped from his lips. “You really don’t know how to be gracious, do you?”
卢修斯愤怒的眼睛钻进她的嘴里，然后一声喘息的、难以置信的笑声从他的嘴里逸出。“你真的不知道怎么表现得客气，对吧？”

“No, I’m about as good at that as you are at apologising.”
“不，我和你道歉的本事差不多。”

He tutted, rolling his eyes before turning to scowl at the fire. “I honestly don’t know why I—” He cut himself off and shook his head with a tired sigh.
他啧了一声，翻了个白眼，然后转身对着火堆皱起眉头。“老实说，我不知道我为什么——”他打断了自己，疲惫地叹了口气，摇了摇头。

Exhausted and overwhelmed, Hermione hesitantly allowed her body to sink to the side so that her shoulder leaned into his arm and her head rested on his shoulder. He stiffened briefly and then gradually softened, allowing her to rest in silence. Closing her eyes, Hermione allowed her breathing to sync with his. Oddly, it soothed her. Everything was going to be different between them, she knew. But they had to find a way to move past it because, as much as she wouldn't have objected to it right at that moment, they could not stay sitting as they were until the end of time. 
精疲力尽，不知所措的赫敏犹豫着让自己的身体向一侧沉去，这样她的肩膀就靠在他的手臂上，她的头靠在他的肩膀上。他短暂地僵硬了一下，然后逐渐软化了，让她静静地休息。闭上眼睛，赫敏让她的呼吸和他的呼吸同步。奇怪的是，这让她感到安慰。她知道，他们之间的一切都会有所不同。但他们必须找到一种方法来超越它，因为尽管她在那一刻不会反对它，但他们不能一直坐着直到时间的尽头。

“What now?” she eventually asked, opening her eyes and resting her unfocused gaze on the flickering flames so that they burned themselves into her retinas.
“现在怎么办？”她最终问道，睁开眼睛，将她漫不经心的目光停留在摇曳的火焰上，让它们把自己烧进了她的视网膜。

He sighed through his nose, the rise and fall of his shoulders moving her head. “That’s up to you.” 
他从鼻子里叹了口气，肩膀的起伏使她的头动了起来。“这取决于你。”

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“I wouldn’t have stopped.”
“我不会停下来的。”

Hermione lifted her head fractionally to peer up at him, swallowing when she saw the glimmer of the fire in his eyes. He was serious.
赫敏微微抬起头，抬头看着他，当她看到他眼中闪过一丝火焰时，她咽了咽口水。他是认真的。

"What do you want?" he asked.
“你想要什么？”

It was such a simple question, wasn't it? She had never struggled to answer simple questions before. It was the complexity of the answer that was the problem. Interpreting her silence as indecision, he added, "And I don't mean what do you think you're supposed to want. What do you truly want?"
这是一个如此简单的问题，不是吗？她以前从来没有费力回答过简单的问题。问题在于答案的复杂性。他将她的沉默解释为优柔寡断，“我不是说你认为你应该想要什么。你真正想要的是什么？

Lifting her head fully from his shoulder, she inspected his face. There wasn't any anger there. Or dislike. There was a sincere curiosity that made her heart ache.
她从他的肩膀上完全抬起头，检查着他的脸。那里没有任何愤怒。或者不喜欢。有一种真诚的好奇心让她心痛。

“I want…to think," she said slowly. “I need to think.”
“我想要......去思考，“她缓缓地说。“我得想想。”

His eyes searched her face and, just for a moment, Hermione thought he might kiss her again. His head certainly inched forward as though he was considering it. Instead, he simply inclined his head once. "Then I will give you time to do so." 
他的眼睛在她的脸上打量着，就在那一瞬间，赫敏觉得他可能会再吻她一次。他的头确实微微向前，仿佛他在考虑这个问题。相反，他只是歪了一下头。“那我就给你时间。”

"Thank you.” Hermione brought her hand out to rest on his forearm and his eyes travelled down to it. She saw a small sigh inflate his chest and squeezed him. “I’ll be here for our next meeting, I promise."
“谢谢你。”赫敏伸出手放在他的前臂上，他的眼睛向下看。她看到一声小小的叹息让他的胸膛膨胀起来，然后挤压了他。“我保证，下次我们会在这里开会。”

"I should think so," Lucius muttered. "It was you that bloody insisted on them in the first place."
“我应该这么认为，”卢修斯咕哝道。“一开始就是你坚持要他们。”

Rolling her eyes, Hermione pushed herself upright. Perhaps things wouldn't change all that much between them. Sliding forward off the sofa, she scooped her wand from the floor as she got to her feet. Instinctively guided by his manners, Lucius moved to get up with her but she held a hand out to stop him and gestured down at his leg. 
赫敏翻了个白眼，把自己撑直了。也许他们之间的事情不会有太大的变化。她从沙发上滑下来，站起来时从地板上舀起了魔杖。本能地被他的举止所引导，卢修斯想和她一起站起来，但她伸出一只手阻止了他，并向下指了指他的腿。

“I think you should stay off that for a bit,” she said. 
“我觉得你应该暂时不要这样，”她说。

“I hardly think that will be necessary. I’m perfectly fine.”
“我几乎不认为这是必要的。我完全没事。

“Oh, really?”
“哦，真的吗？”

He nodded, his lips set in a firm line. “I think, after forty-odd years, I know my body better than you do.”
他点点头，嘴唇紧抿。“我想，四十多年过去了，我比你更了解自己的身体。”

“Alright, then. Fine. Try. On you go,” Hermione said, crossing her arms and looking down at him with a single eyebrow raised. 
“好吧。好。尝试。走吧，“赫敏说，交叉双臂，抬起一根眉毛低头看着他。

Glaring up at her, he began to push himself from the sofa, gingerly placing his weight on his leg. A soft groan escaped his mouth and Hermione thought that he might take the sensible path of giving up and sitting back. Instead, he grit his teeth and rose steadily to his feet. Hermione gaped up at him as he reached his full height and he looked down at her, a triumphant gleam in his eyes. 
他抬头瞪着她，开始从沙发上站起来，小心翼翼地把重心放在腿上。他嘴里发出一声轻柔的呻吟，赫敏想他可能会走一条明智的路，放弃并坐下来。相反，他咬紧牙关，稳稳地站了起来。赫敏在他达到最大高度时目瞪口呆地看着他，他低头看着她，眼中闪过胜利的光芒。

“You’re unbelievable,” she said. 
“你太不可思议了，”她说。

“You just hate it when you’re not right.”
“当你不对的时候，你就会讨厌它。”

“You are clearly in pain.”
“你显然很痛苦。”

“Prove it.”
“证明一下。”

“Oh my—” Hermione dropped her neck back, sighing at the ceiling and smacking her wand against her thigh so that a red spark flashed from its end. “Goodnight, Mr Malfoy.”
“哦，我的天——”赫敏把脖子往后仰，对着天花板叹了口气，用魔杖敲打着她的大腿，让红色的火花从它的末端闪过。“晚安，马尔福先生。”

She turned to go but paused when she heard him speak. “Don’t you think we’re past the formalities?”
她转身想走，但当她听到他说话时停了下来。“你不觉得我们已经过了手续吗？”

Turning back with a questioning frown, Hermione saw him huff impatiently. “Call me Lucius.”
赫敏皱着疑问的眉头回过头来，看到他不耐烦地气喘吁吁。“叫我卢修斯。”

Hermione hesitated, adjusting the bottom of her t-shirt nervously with her left hand while her right rotated her wand. He took in her reticence with barely concealed exasperation.
赫敏犹豫了一下，左手紧张地调整着T恤的底部，右手转动着魔杖。他以几乎无法掩饰的愤怒接受了她的沉默。

“You would have my tongue in your mouth but my given name is a step too far?”
“你会把我的舌头含在嘴里，但我的名字太过分了？”

Hermione blushed furiously. “Don’t," she said.
赫敏气得脸红了。“不要，”她说。

“Don’t what?” 
“不要什么？”

“Try to embarrass me.”
“试着让我难堪。”

“You’re embarrassing yourself,” he said dismissively, his willingness to play with her reducing with every second he spent standing on his injured leg. “Just call me Lucius; it’s not that hard.”
“你自己真丢人，”他轻蔑地说，他和她玩的意愿随着他站在受伤的腿上的每一秒而减少。“叫我卢修斯就好;没那么难。

“Well then you have to call me Hermione,” she said, rubbing her left foot against the back of her right calf and gazing at her bare toes. “None of this Miss Granger stuff. It makes me feel like I’m being told off sometimes.”
“那么你得叫我赫敏，”她说，一边用左脚蹭着右小腿后部，盯着她裸露的脚趾。“没有这些格兰杰小姐的东西。这让我觉得我有时被人责备。

“Sometimes a telling off is exactly what you need,” he muttered. “ Hermione .”
“有时候，告发正是你所需要的，”他咕哝道。“赫敏。”

Hermione’s stomach clenched as though held in a fist, her eyes darting up to his to find them already fixed on her. Her name sounded strange coming from his mouth but she didn’t entirely dislike it. “Goodnight, Lucius.” 
赫敏的肚子紧紧地握紧，仿佛握成拳头，她的眼睛瞪向他，发现眼睛已经盯着她。她的名字从他嘴里说出来听起来很奇怪，但她并不完全不喜欢。“晚安，卢修斯。”

He inclined his head and stood watching her until she had left the study, afterwards sinking onto the sofa with a relieved groan as he lifted his weight off his leg. 
他歪着头站着看着她，直到她离开书房，然后瘫倒在沙发上，松了一口气，把重心从腿上移开。

Hermione stepped into the hallway, her bare feet sinking into the plush carpet. She was planning to Floo from the library to return home but she stood for a few moments outside his study door attempting to process what had just happened. Not able to hear any movement from within, she rather thought he was doing the same thing. 
赫敏走进走廊，赤脚陷进毛绒地毯里。她本来打算让飞路从图书馆回家，但她在他的书房门外站了一会儿，试图理解刚刚发生的事情。她听不到里面的任何动静，宁愿以为他在做同样的事情。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Been building up to this for over 100,000 words (wtf?) so I hope I even slightly pulled it off.
我已经为此积累了超过 100,000 字（wtf？），所以我希望我能稍微成功一点。

Chapter 24
第二十四章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius have a meeting after their last encounter. We all know how that went so how do we think this will go?
赫敏和卢修斯在最后一次相遇后开了个会。我们都知道事情进展如何，那么我们认为事情会如何发展呢？

Chapter Notes
章节注释

This is just a stupidly long chapter I'm sorry but it's a bunch of build up that I didn't want to cut and, well...you'll see. Anyway, thank you again everyone. I'm totally blown away by the response to this story and so grateful for all your kudoses and comments <3
对不起，这只是一个愚蠢的长章，但这是一堆我不想删减的积累，嗯......你会知道的。无论如何，再次感谢大家。我对这个故事的反应完全震撼了，非常感谢你所有的 kudoses 和评论 <3

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾July 5th
7月5日

"Baaaaad! Baaaaaaad!"
“呜呜呜！呜呜��

Hermione jolted guiltily, pulled from her thoughts of Lucius Malfoy by the ringing cry of James Potter. She was relieved to find when she looked down at him in his buggy that he was not, in fact, some kind of Legilimens prodigy. 
赫敏愧疚地颤抖着，被詹姆·波特响亮的哭声从她对卢修斯·马尔福的思绪中拉了出来。当她低头看着坐在马车里的他时，她松了一口气，发现他实际上并不是某种 Legilimens 神童。

Instead, she discovered that he was actually baa-ing as he pointed at a large and particularly fluffy white dog standing far across the park.
相反，她发现他实际上是在咆哮，因为他指着远处站在公园对面的一只大而特别毛茸茸的白狗。

"That's not a sheep, James," Hermione said, smiling fondly down at the top of his head. "It's a dog. What noise does a dog make?"
“那不是一只羊，詹姆斯，”赫敏说，在他的头顶上露出深情的笑容。“这是一只狗。狗会发出什么声音？

An adorably quietly uttered "they woof woof" made Hermione break out in a wide grin. "Well done," she said. “That’s right.”
一声可爱而轻柔的“他们哇”让赫敏咧嘴一笑。“干得好，”她说。“没错。”

Hermione had stopped by the Potters' specifically to take James out for the afternoon in the hopes of giving Harry and Ginny a little time in which they only had Albus Severus to contend with. It was also a means of keeping herself busy so that her every waking moment wasn’t spent thinking about Lucius Malfoy. Well, it was supposed to be. Inevitably her thoughts drifted back to him in any quiet moment and had insisted on doing so since their kiss. 
赫敏特地去了波特家，带詹姆斯出去玩一个下午，希望能给哈利和金妮一点时间，让他们只剩下阿不思·西弗勒斯要应付。这也是让自己忙碌的一种方式，这样她醒着的每一刻都不会花在想卢修斯·马尔福上。嗯，应该是这样。在任何安静的时刻，她的思绪都不可避免地飘回到了他身上，自从他们接吻后，她就一直坚持这样做。

She’d tried tackling her increasingly perilous ‘to read’ pile, cooking meals for the Potters, and taking James out for hours here and there to give them breaks. She’d even joined Neville on one of his bi-weekly summer holiday visits to the Hogwarts greenhouses. None of those activities had kept her mind off Malfoy for quite long enough. In fact, the greenhouses with Neville had actually encouraged particularly vivid reminiscences. 
她试过处理她那堆越来越危险的“阅读”堆，为波特家做饭，带詹姆斯到处出去几个小时让他们休息。她甚至和纳威一起参加了他每两周一次的暑假霍格沃茨温室之旅。这些活动都没有让她的注意力从马尔福身上离开足够长的时间。事实上，纳威的温室实际上激发了特别生动的回忆。

Sighing, Hermione continued to push James and his buggy along the winding path through the park. Every time she thought she’d effectively distracted herself and removed Malfoy from her mind, it ended up feeling like she’d just shoved him into a tiny mental cupboard where he waited for her guard to drop before toppling out. 
赫敏叹了口气，继续推着詹姆斯和他的马车沿着公园里蜿蜒的小路走。每次她认为自己有效地分散了自己的注意力，把马尔福从她的脑海中抹去时，最后感觉就像她只是把他塞进了一个小小的心理橱柜里，他在那里等着她的戒备放松，然后才倒下。

Her hands squeezed the handles of the buggy and she took in a sharp breath of fresh summer air as the memory of him foisted itself upon her again. His lips, his hands, his eyes. His tongue. All of her hazy, lust-filled reminiscences made it hard for her to do any of the consistent, clear-eyed kind of thinking that she had told herself, and him, that she would do. 
她的手紧紧地捏着马车的把手，她猛地吸了一口夏日清新的空气，对他的回忆又一次涌上心头。他的嘴唇，他的手，他的眼睛。他的舌头。她所有朦胧的、充满情欲的回忆使她很难做出任何她告诉自己和他会做的那种一致、清醒的想法。

She appreciated that he was giving her time to contemplate what she wanted; it was unexpectedly accommodating of him. As a result, there was some suspicion mixed with the gratitude but that was just a healthy wariness of him and his motives.
她很感激他给她时间来思考她想要什么;出乎意料地迁就了他。结果，有一些怀疑和感激交织在一起，但那只是对他和他的动机的健康警惕。

In the end, coming to terms with the fact that she was attracted to him hadn’t been all that painful. It was something that she had been contemplating since their argument in the greenhouse, after all, and she suspected it had been bubbling beneath the surface even before that. So she wanted him. Fine. It was the new and persistent urge to have him that presented a problem. Especially because he'd made it clear that she could.
最后，接受她被他吸引的事实并没有那么痛苦。毕竟，自从他们在温室里争吵以来，她就一直在考虑这个问题，而且她怀疑甚至在那之前它就已经在表面下冒泡了。所以她想要他。好。正是这种新的、持续的想要拥有他的冲动带来了一个问题。尤其是因为他已经明确表示她可以。

In her more even-minded moments over the week, Hermione had truly considered the idea of pursuing something with him and the various ways it could go. None of her projections ended particularly well. Someone always ended up getting hurt. It wasn’t always she or Lucius, either; in one projection she had imagined a particularly unfortunate fate for Ron following a misguided attempt to confront a re-armed Lucius. 
在她这一周比较平静的时刻，赫敏真正考虑了和他一起追求某件事的想法，以及它可能走的各种路。她的预测都没有特别好的结局。总有人受伤。也不总是她或卢修斯;在一个投影中，她想象了罗恩在与重新武装的卢修斯对峙的错误尝试后特别不幸的命运。

It was hard to imagine how they fit into one another’s lives. Sure, when she was interviewing him, being around one another made sense. When they weren’t continually in one another’s presence, though, how would it work? More than that, wasn’t it likely that the whole thing was simply a passing fancy borne of proximity and a lack of other options?
很难想象他们如何融入彼此的生活。当然，当她采访他时，彼此在一起是有道理的。然而，当他们不是经常在彼此面前时，它会如何运作呢？不仅如此，整件事难道不是只是由于接近和缺乏其他选择而产生的短暂幻想吗？

And while Hermione didn’t consider herself one to pay much attention to what other people thought, there was no denying that she and Malfoy together would draw…comments. The idea of what her friends would say, what his son – who was a very new friend – would say . There was not giving a jot about the opinions of strangers and then there was not being receptive to the concerns and feelings of the people she loved and respected. Two very different things.
虽然赫敏不认为自己是一个太在意别人怎么想的人，但不可否认的是，她和马尔福一起会画画......评论。她的朋友会说什么，他的儿子——一个非常新的朋友——会说什么。她没有对陌生人的意见开玩笑，也没有接受她所爱和尊重的人的关心和感受。两件截然不同的事情。

Then there was the Prophet. It had only recently started to accept that she really was as boring as she’d always insisted. A relationship with Lucius Malfoy would bring every single reporter the publication had to her doorstep, shattering her hard-earned peace.
然后是先知。直到最近，它才开始接受她真的像她一直坚持的那样无聊。与卢修斯·马尔福的关系会让该出版物的每一位记者都来到她家门口，打破她来之不易的平静。

Hermione’s steps slowed as her brain moved into new, dangerous territory. But she was thinking of it like a relationship . He had never mentioned one. He’d just asked her what she wanted. Who was to say that they wouldn’t simply sleep together and move on? Scratch the itch. Hermione swallowed, her cheeks warming over the fact that she was considering a one night stand – a secret one night stand – with Lucius Malfoy. Could they do that ? Would he want that?
赫敏的脚步放慢了，她的大脑进入了新的、危险的领域。但她把它看作是一种关系。他从来没有提到过。他只是问她想要什么。谁能说他们不会简单地睡在一起然后继续前进呢？抓痒。赫敏咽了口口水，她的脸颊因为她正在考虑和卢修斯·马尔福发生——一个秘密的——而感到温暖。他们能做到吗？他会想要那样吗？

But the Ministry. She had promised to advocate for him but if she was…entangled with him – in the past or the present – well, how would that look? Would she have to disclose the extent of their relationship to the Wizengamot and would it consider her judgement clouded? Was her judgement clouded? How trustworthy would her testimony truly be if it wasn’t coming from Hermione Granger, objective war heroine, but Hermione Granger, witch who had slept with the appealant?
但是魔法部。她曾承诺为他辩护，但如果她是......与他纠缠在一起——无论是过去还是现在——嗯，那会是什么样子？她是否必须披露他们与威森加摩的关系程度，它会认为她的判断蒙上了阴影吗？ 她的判断是否蒙上了阴影？如果她的证词不是来自客观的战争女英雄赫敏·格兰杰，而是来自与上诉人上床的女巫赫敏·格兰杰，那么她的证词真的可信度如何？

It was impossible. It was all just so damned impossible and it made her want to scream. She should never have let him kiss her. She should never have kissed him back. She should never have let him lift her into his lap, or kiss her neck, or push up her t-shirt in that ridiculously teasing – Hermione clenched her jaw and sharply shook her head. Stop it . 
这是不可能的。这一切都太他妈的不可能了，这让她想尖叫。她绝对不应该让他吻她。她永远不应该回吻他。她绝对不应该让他把她抱到自己的腿上，或者亲吻她的脖子，或者用那种荒谬的挑逗来掀起她的T恤——赫敏咬紧了下巴，猛地摇了摇头。 停下。

After another turn around the pond so that James could laugh at the ducks, Hermione allowed her feet to direct her back in the direction of the Potters’ house, the sound of James ‘woofing’ at various passing dogs lifting her spirits fractionally. He was so young, so full of promise. He wasn’t out there making stupid mistakes and then spending all his time thinking about ways that he could get away with repeating them. 
赫敏又绕着池塘转了一圈，让詹姆斯可以嘲笑鸭子，然后让她的脚指向波特家的方向，詹姆斯对着各种路过的狗“呜”的声音稍微振奋了一下她的精神。他那么年轻，那么充满希望。他不会在那里犯愚蠢的错误，然后把所有的时间都花在思考如何避免重蹈覆辙。

Of course, she still hadn’t even had that conversation with Harry about advocating for Lucius. She’d sworn to herself at the baby shower that she would and here they were, a newborn baby in the house, and she still hadn’t done it. Squaring her shoulders, Hermione determined that was at least one thing she could lift from her mind with immediate effect. 
当然，她甚至还没有和哈利谈过为卢修斯发声。她在婴儿送礼会上对自己发誓，她会的，而他们就在这里，家里还有一个新生的婴儿，但她仍然没有这样做。赫敏挺直了肩膀，确定这至少是她可以立即从脑海中解脱出来的一件事。

“Kingsley told me he spoke to you about what I asked him to do for Lucius Malfoy.”
“金斯莱告诉我，他跟你谈过我让他为卢修斯·马尔福做些什么。”

Harry blinked rapidly, clearly not expecting that to be the first thing to come out of Hermione’s mouth when he opened the kitchen door for her. 
哈利快速眨了眨眼，显然没想到这是赫敏为她打开厨房门时第一个从她嘴里说出来的话。

“I’m sorry I didn’t tell you about it directly, Harry.” 
“很抱歉我没有直接告诉你这件事，哈利。”

Shaking his head, Harry sank down onto his haunches in front of his son’s buggy and peered up at her. “Don’t worry about it. Ginny told me weeks ago after you mentioned it to her and I wasn’t all that surprised. I kind of had a feeling you wouldn’t get something out of him for nothing.” 
哈利摇了摇头，在儿子的马车前趴下腰，抬头凝视着她。“别担心。几周前，在你向她提到这件事后，金妮告诉我，我并没有那么惊讶。我有一种感觉，你不会白白从他身上得到什么。

Unbuckling James, Harry lifted him into his arms, smiling when his son immediately wrapped his arms around his neck in a tight cuddle. “There are only so many things you can offer to Lucius Malfoy that will tempt him.”
哈利解开詹姆斯的扣子，把他抱进怀里，当他的儿子立即用手臂紧紧地拥抱着他的脖子时，他微笑着。“你能给卢修斯·马尔福的东西只有这么多，能诱惑他。”

Determinedly restraining her mind from straying into the dangerous territory of things she could do that might tempt Lucius Malfoy, Hermione hummed noncommittally. “Kingsley wants me to put my name to the request, too. He said it’ll carry more weight if I do it.”
赫敏坚决地克制自己的思想，不让自己的思绪误入她可以做的那些可能诱惑卢修斯·马尔福的事情的危险领域，她不置可否地哼了一声。“金斯利也希望我把我的名字写在请求上。他说如果我这样做，它会更有分量。

“He’s right,” Harry replied, backing further into the kitchen to let Hermione fold up the buggy. “You’re the one that’s been spending time with him, after all. Are you going to do it?”
“他说得对，”哈利回答，一边退到厨房里，让赫敏把婴儿车叠起来。“毕竟，你是那个一直和他在一起的人。你打算这样做吗？

“I think so.”
“我想是的。”

“It won’t be the most popular move,” Harry said, lowering himself into one of the chairs by the kitchen table and balancing James on his lap. "God knows, I got plenty of shit for speaking up at his son's trial so it'd be worse for you."
“这不会是最受欢迎的举动，”哈利说，把自己放到厨房桌子旁的一把椅子上，让詹姆斯在他的腿上保持平衡。“天知道，我因为在他儿子的审判中发声而受到了很多责骂，所以这对你来说会更糟。”

“I know that,” Hermione sighed, brushing her curls out of her face after she’d placed the folded buggy in its place by the door, “but I gave him my word that I’d get him something.”
“我知道，”赫敏叹了口气，把折叠好的婴儿车放到门边后，拂去脸上的卷发，“但我答应过他，我会给他买点东西。

“You don’t owe him anything, though,” Harry said, frowning as he bounced his knees to entertain James. “Don’t let him make you think that you do.”
“不过，你不欠他什么，”哈利说，皱着眉头，蹦蹦跳跳地跪着逗詹姆斯。“别让他让你觉得你是这样。”

“He wouldn’t,” Hermione said with a weary sigh, collapsing into a chair beside Harry. “And I’m not doing it because I feel like I owe him, anyway.”
“他不会的，”赫敏疲惫地叹了口气，瘫倒在哈利旁边的椅子上。“我这样做不是因为我觉得我欠他，无论如何。”

At that, Harry gave her a curious look, his bouncing slowing markedly. “Why then?”
听到这话，哈利好奇地看了她一眼，他的弹跳明显减慢了。“那为什么呢？”

“Because I think he might be…" She waved a hand searching for the word. "At a crossroads, say. And loosening his leash might help him choose the right path.”
“因为我觉得他可能是......”她挥了挥手，寻找这个词。“比如说，在十字路口。松开他的皮带可能会帮助他选择正确的道路。

Harry stopped bouncing his knees entirely, oblivious to James pulling violently on the neck of his t-shirt like it was the reins of a horse. Shrugging, Hermione gave him an awkward smile, well aware that probably wasn’t what he’d anticipated hearing from her.
哈利完全停止了膝盖的弹跳，没有注意到詹姆斯像拉马缰绳一样猛烈地拉扯着他的T恤脖子。赫敏耸耸肩，尴尬地笑了笑，很清楚这可能不是他预料到的。

“Isn’t he a bit old for a change of heart? Or a bit…lacking a heart?”
“他不是有点老了，不能改变主意吗？或者有点......缺乏一颗心？

“He has a heart, Harry,” Hermione said, a defensiveness in her voice that made him raise his eyebrows. She exhaled sharply and shook her head. “Do you think Ginny will be angry if I take that step further?”
“他有心，哈利，”赫敏说，她的声音里带着一种防御，让他扬起了眉毛。她猛地呼出一口气，摇了摇头。“你觉得如果我再往前走一步，金妮会生气吗？”

“You can hardly send her into early labour anymore,” Harry said, blinking slowly as though still coming to terms with the information that had just been dropped on him. Or Hermione's irate reaction in defence of Malfoy.
“你不能再把她送进早产了，”哈利说，缓缓地眨了眨眼，仿佛还在接受刚刚传给他的信息。或者赫敏为马尔福辩护时的愤怒反应。

“I’m serious.”
“我是认真的。”

“Well, she’s got other things to worry about now. Two kids, for instance. No offence, Hermione, but the movements of Lucius Malfoy are extremely low down on our list of concerns these days. Don’t expect her to get it or to be happy about it but we’ll both stand by you.”
“嗯，她现在还有其他事情要担心。例如，两个孩子。没有冒犯，赫敏，但卢修斯·马尔福的动向最近在我们关注的清单上排在极低的位置。不要指望她能得到它或为此感到高兴，但我们都会支持你。

Harry returned to bouncing with just as much enthusiasm as before, keen to prevent his son from strangling him. “Let’s face it, you know him better than any of us now. We can just blame you if he decides to be terrible again.“
哈利又恢复了蹦蹦跳跳的热情，急切地想防止他的儿子掐死他。“让我们面对现实吧，你现在比我们任何人都更了解他。如果他决定再次变得糟糕，我们可以责怪你。

Hermione’s smile was tight in return. “I sincerely hope that won't be necessary.”
赫敏的笑容也紧紧地回应。“我真诚地希望那没有必要。”

July 6th
7 月 6 日

“Lucius, I wondered if you’d mind discussing some things we didn't quite get to in our last meeting?”
“卢修斯，我想知道你是否介意讨论一下我们上次会议中没有完全谈到的一些事情？”

Telling Hermione Granger to use his given name had been one of Lucius Malfoy’s better decisions; each and every time, she said it with a subtle hesitation that had not yet failed to amuse him. The girl said ‘Voldemort’ with more brazen confidence. 
告诉赫敏·格兰杰使用他的名字是卢修斯·马尔福更好的决定之一;每一次，她说这句话时，都带着一种微妙的犹豫，但还没有不让他感到高兴。女孩说“伏地魔”时更加自信。

“Whatever you like, Hermione.”
“随你便吧，赫敏。”

Saying her name was even better. He appreciated that it had so many syllables, allowing him to draw it out and savour the faint blush that rose to her cheeks. 
说出她的名字就更好了。他很欣赏它有这么多的音节，让他可以把它抽出来，细细品味她脸颊上升起的淡淡的红晕。

“So, you said you were wandless and useless to Voldemort.” Lucius’ smirk slipped slightly; she was still irritatingly, and he sometimes suspected deliberately, indelicate for all her attractive blushes. “You also said you no longer had any interest in the war. Why did he bring you to the Battle at Hogwarts?”
“所以，你说你没有魔杖，对伏地魔毫无用处。”卢修斯的笑容微微滑落;她仍然令人恼火，他有时故意怀疑，尽管她脸红迷人，但并不雅致。“你还说你对战争不再有任何兴趣。他为什么带你去参加霍格沃茨之战？

“I rather think I inflated the numbers,” Lucius drawled with a dissatisfied purse of his lips. “Or perhaps he thought I’d make a useful shield.”
“我宁愿觉得我夸大了数字，”卢修斯不满地抿起嘴唇。“或者他认为我会做一个有用的盾牌。”

“I suppose you wanted to be there anyway,” Hermione said. “Even if he thought it was punishing you.”
“我想你无论如何都想去那里，”赫敏说。“即使他认为这是在惩罚你。”

“Yes.” Lucius leaned his elbows on his desk and clasped his hands in a bridge beneath his chin. “Draco was at Hogwarts.”
“是的。”卢修斯将胳膊肘靠在桌子上，双手紧握在下巴下的桥上。“德拉科在霍格沃茨。”

“Did you have a plan to reach him?”
“你有没有找到他的计划？”

“No. I was in a rather…reactive state by that stage, Hermione. I intended to take an opportunity to get to my son if it presented itself but I was in no position to create one.”
“不。我处于一个相当......反应状态，赫敏。如果它出现，我打算抓住机会去找我的儿子，但我没有资格创造一个。

“You must have been delighted when one did present itself, then. Harry told me that Voldemort chose Narcissa to check that he was still alive after the encounter in the forest. Why was she chosen?”
“那么，当一个出现时，你一定很高兴。哈利告诉我，伏地魔选择纳西莎是为了在森林里遭遇后检查他是否还活着。为什么她被选中？

“She caught his eye first,” Lucius said with a shrug. “She was disposable to him. And I’m sure he thought she’d always tell the truth as a dutiful Pure-blood witch should.” Leaning back in his chair, he rested his elbows on its arms. “He didn’t know Narcissa very well.”
“她先引起了他的注意，”卢修斯耸耸肩说。“她对他来说是一次性的。而且我敢肯定，他认为她总是会像一个尽职尽责的纯血统女巫一样说真话。他靠在椅子上，胳膊肘靠在它的手臂上。“他不是很了解纳西莎。”

“Obviously. Because she did lie. Are you glad she did?”
“显然。因为她确实撒了谎。你高兴她这样做了吗？

Lucius rubbed his forefinger along his lower lip thoughtfully, his eyes fixed on the patiently waiting witch across from him. “Yes, I think I am,” he finally said. “She took a risk and while I’m not sure how exact she was when she calculated it, I can appreciate it paid off in many ways.”
卢修斯若有所思地用食指在下唇上摩擦，眼睛盯着对面耐心等待的女巫。“是的，我想我是，”他终于说。“她冒了风险，虽然我不确定她计算时的准确性如何，但我可以体会到它在很多方面都得到了回报。”

“Would you have done as she did?”
“你会像她那样做吗？”

Scoffing and rolling his eyes, Lucius dropped his arm so that his hand dangled over the arm of his chair, his rings glinting. “I doubt the Dark Lord would have trusted me to find my own pulse by that point, never mind Harry Potter’s.”
卢修斯嘲笑着翻了个白眼，放下了他的手臂，让他的手悬在椅子的扶手上，他的戒指闪闪发光。“我怀疑黑魔王会相信我会在那个时候找到自己的脉搏，更不用说哈利波特的脉搏了。”

“That’s not what I asked, Lucius,” Hermione said sternly.  
“那不是我问的，卢修斯，”赫敏严肃地说。

“Well, I don’t know . I like to think I’d have had the foresight that Narcissa did but I’ll confess my reserve of hope was rather lower than hers. I can’t discount the possibility that I’d have given Potter away in a last ditch attempt at returning to the Dark Lord’s favour.”
“嗯，我不知道。我喜欢认为我有像纳西莎那样的先见之明，但我承认我的希望储备比她低得多。我不能打折扣，我可能会把波特送走，以换回黑魔王的青睐。

Seeing Hermione’s disbelieving and faintly disgusted look, Lucius shifted irritably in his seat. She wasn’t supposed to be looking at him like that; she was supposed to be looking at him with attraction and lust. At the very least, she was supposed to be looking at him in a way that didn’t make him feel like something mounted on the walls of Borgin and Burkes. 
看到赫敏难以置信和略带厌恶的眼神，卢修斯在座位上烦躁地挪动了一下。她不应该那样看着他;她应该用吸引和欲望看着他。至少，她应该以一种不会让他觉得自己像是挂在博金和伯克斯墙上的东西的方式看着他。

“Stop asking absurd hypotheticals,” he snapped. “They help no one.” 
“别再问荒谬的假设了，”他厉声说。“他们帮不了任何人。”

“Why do you think she did it?” Hermione asked. It had never really been explained to her satisfaction through the trials. The action had been used as evidence in and of itself; the motive hadn’t really mattered. Given Lucius and Draco had both expressed that they didn’t think Narcissa would want to have anything to do with Hermione herself, she thought she’d better ask while she could. 
“你觉得她为什么这么做？”赫敏问道。通过试验，她从来没有真正满意地解释过这一点。这个行动本身就被用作证据;动机并不重要。鉴于卢修斯和德拉科都表示他们不认为纳西莎会想和赫敏本人有任何关系，她认为她最好趁早问问。

Crossing one leg over the other, Lucius lifted his arm and leaned the side of his head on his fist, inspecting Hermione. He didn’t think he should speak for his ex-wife; she had never appreciated it when they’d been married and she would appreciate it even less when they were divorced. 
卢修斯把一条腿交叉在另一条腿上，抬起手臂，把头的一侧靠在拳头上，打量着赫敏。他认为自己不应该为他的前妻说话;当他们结婚时，她从来没有欣赏过，当他们离婚时，她会更不欣赏。

“I cannot tell you that with any authority, Hermione. It’s not my place.” Hermione’s face fell, a crestfallen slump lowering her shoulders, and Lucius sighed through his nose. 
“我不能用任何权威告诉你，赫敏。这不是我的地方。赫敏的脸沉了下来，一阵瘫倒的垂头丧气垂下了她的肩膀，卢修斯从鼻子里叹了口气。

“If I had to truly hypothetically put myself in her place as you asked me to,” he said reluctantly, prompting her to fix him with a look of wide-eyed curiosity that he found begrudgingly appealing, “and contrive some kind of in-the-moment train of thought, I would say that my family and I did not stand to thrive if Voldemort won. We were as low in his favour as it was possible to be while remaining alive. Had I approached Potter and found him still alive after being struck with the killing curse for the second time, my already fractured faith in the Dark Lord might have…taken a further hit, shall we say.” 
“如果我真的必须按照你的要求，假设自己在她的位置上，”他不情愿地说，促使她用一种他觉得勉强吸引人的睁大眼睛的好奇眼神来注视他，“并想出某种当下的思路，我会说，如果伏地魔赢了，我和我的家人就不能茁壮成长了。我们在活着的时候，尽可能地对他有利。如果我找到波特，发现他在第二次被杀戮诅咒击中后还活着，我对黑魔王已经支离破碎的信仰可能会......受到了进一步的打击，容我们说。

Hermione blinked and Lucius raised an eyebrow. “I might have even dared to think that Potter stood a chance. And while a world in which Potter was a winner would be a world in which I had chosen the wrong side, even I would have understood that my family and I stood a far greater chance of staying alive in such a world.”
赫敏眨了眨眼，卢修斯扬起了眉毛。“我甚至敢认为波特有机会。虽然一个波特是赢家的世界会是一个我选错了一边的世界，但即使是我也会明白，我和我的家人在这样的世界里活下去的机会要大得多。

“And if Voldemort had managed to kill Harry in the end? He’d have realised you lied. He’d have realised Narcissa lied.”
“如果伏地魔最后成功杀死了哈利呢？他会意识到你在撒谎。他会意识到纳西莎撒谎的。

“And there is the risk,” Lucius said with a wry smile. “I suppose I could have comforted myself with the thought that if he had won, my life would not have been especially worth living anyway. If you’re going to lose you might as well do so in a way that is as much to your advantage as possible.”
“而且有风险，”卢修斯苦笑着说。“我想我本可以安慰自己，如果他赢了，我的生活无论如何都不会特别值得活着。如果你要输，你还不如以尽可能对你有利的方式去做。

“So neither of you fought.”
“所以你们俩都没有打架。”

“No. After what Narcissa did it was certainly not in our interests to help the Dark Lord win. We took what we knew was our one and only chance to find Draco. And if I had managed to lay my hand on a wand I would not have raised it to do anything other than protect my wife and child. So, you see, they were right to mention it to my credit in the trials,” Lucius said with a bitter smile, recalling her anger in the greenhouse. “Not that it made a huge amount of difference to my sentence in the end.”
“不。在纳西莎所做的一切之后，帮助黑魔王获胜肯定不符合我们的利益。我们抓住了我们知道的唯一机会来找到 Draco。如果我设法将我的手放在一根魔杖上，我就不会举起它来做任何事情，除了保护我的妻子和孩子。所以，你看，他们在试验中提到我是对的，“卢修斯苦笑着说，回忆起她在温室里的愤怒。“并不是说它最终对我的判决产生了很大的影响。”

“I remember seeing the three of you in the Great Hall afterwards, you know,” Hermione said. “I was surprised you didn’t run.”
“我记得后来在礼堂里看到你们三个，你知道的，”赫敏说。“我很惊讶你没有跑。”

Lucius shook his head. “Staying was a statement of intent, though more for Draco than either of us—I knew the optics were good for him. Besides that, we felt relatively safe. For the first time in quite a while.”
卢修斯摇摇头。“留下来是一种意向声明，尽管对Draco来说比我们中的任何一个人都重要——我知道这些眼光对他有好处。除此之外，我们感到相对安全。很长一段时间以来的第一次。

“You felt safe?” Hermione asked, a smile twitching at her lips. “Surrounded by the enemy?”
“你觉得安全吗？”赫敏问道，嘴角的笑容抽搐着。“被敌人包围了？”

Lucius hummed, balancing his chin on his fist, his eyes flicking up and to the left in an almost-roll. “Well, you all have that tedious attachment to honour , don’t you? I thought it unlikely I was going to receive an unannounced killing curse to the back—I’d at least get a trial first.”
卢修斯哼了一声，用拳头固定着下巴，他的眼睛几乎是滚动地向上和向左眨了眨。“嗯，你们都对荣誉有那种乏味的执着，不是吗？我以为我不太可能在背后受到一个突如其来的杀戮诅咒——我至少会先得到一个试炼。

“You call that tedious ?”
“你说这很乏味？”

“I suppose at that specific moment it was refreshing. A temporarily welcome dissimilarity.”
“我想在那个特定的时刻，它令人耳目一新。暂时受欢迎的不同。

With a disbelieving scoff, Hermione reached forward to give the Wheezebox a perfunctory tap with her wand. “Thank you, Lucius. That’ll do for this week.”
赫敏带着难以置信的嘲笑，伸手上前用魔杖敷衍地敲了敲Wheezebox。“谢谢你，卢修斯。这周就这样了。

“A rather short chat today,” Lucius said, his eyebrows raised as he tried to keep any resentment out of his voice.
“今天聊得相当短，”卢修斯说，他扬起眉毛，试图让声音中流露出任何怨恨。

“Mostly I just wanted to fill in some gaps from our last interview. I won’t be able to use some of that,” Hermione said with a wry smile. “It turned rather personal, if you recall.”
“大多数情况下，我只是想填补我们上次采访中的一些空白。我不能用一些，“赫敏苦笑着说。“如果你还记得的话，它变得相当私人。”

“Vaguely,” he said, lifting one of his shoulders in a shrug. Lowering his eyes to inspect his fingernails, he added, “I can’t imagine we have much left to discuss.”
“隐约地，”他说，耸耸肩，抬起他的一个肩膀。他低下眼睛检查自己的指甲，补充道，“我无法想象我们还有很多事情要讨论。

“No,” Hermione said slowly, thumbing through the transcript on his desk before slotting them into her bag. “I think next week might be our final interview.” Their eyes met and Lucius held her gaze intently until she broke it, clearing her throat with a discomfited shift. “Though I hope you’ll still let me use your library.”
“不，”赫敏缓缓地说，用拇指翻阅桌上的文字记录，然后把它们塞进她的包里。“我认为下周可能是我们的最后一次面试。”他们的目光相遇，卢修斯专注地注视着她，直到她打断了它，不安地清了清嗓子。“不过我希望你还是让我使用你的图书馆。”

“I got the impression you were tired of using it,” he said. “It’s been quiet.”
“我感觉你已经厌倦了使用它，”他说。“一直很安静。”

It had been. When Granger had said she’d be back for their next meeting, he had rather thought she would still show up to work in the library in the meantime. Instead, she’d practically vanished. It was strange for him to think that there was once a time when he’d have been delighted by such a turn of events. Now, as a man who had finally come to terms that he liked her company, that he liked her , he found her prolonged absences just as, if not more, frustrating than her presence.
它曾经是。当格兰杰说她会回来参加他们的下一次会议时，他宁愿认为她在此期间还会出现在图书馆工作。相反，她几乎消失了。他想到曾经有一段时间他会为这样的转变感到高兴，这真是奇怪。现在，作为一个终于接受他喜欢她的陪伴，他喜欢她的男人，他发现她长时间的缺席与她的存在一样令人沮丧，如果不是更令人沮丧的话。

“I took a few days off to help Ginny and Harry settle in with the new baby. And to think.”
“我请了几天假，帮助金妮和哈利安顿好新生儿。并思考。

To think. That was what she’d said she would do. Unsurprisingly, he had been doing the same thing. 
思考。这就是她说她会做的。不出所料，他一直在做同样的事情。

Initially, the morning after their kiss in particular, he’d damned himself as an old fool who had finally succumbed to the madness he’d always suspected would eventually seize him as a result of his house arrest. She was young – arguably too young – and not really anything like what he thought he’d want in a lover; stubborn, proud, argumentative. Infuriating, in other words. But Merlin help him if it didn’t have an effect on him. After eight years of stultifying boredom she was not so much a breath of fresh air as a fucking hurricane.
最初，特别是在他们接吻后的那个早晨，他诅咒自己是个老傻瓜，最终屈服于他一直怀疑的疯狂最终会因为他的软禁而夺走他。她很年轻——可以说太年轻了——根本不像他认为他想要的情人;固执、骄傲、好争论。换句话说，这很令人愤怒。但是如果这对他没有影响，梅林会帮助他。在经历了八年令人窒息的无聊之后，她与其说是一股清新的空气，不如说是一场该死的飓风。

He’d found himself wondering to what extent prolonged exposure was the primary cause of his feelings and whether or not he would simply be cured of them once she finally, inevitably, disappeared out of his life. It was easy to think with that kind of clarity when one was strolling around bright sunlit grounds. 
他发现自己在想，长时间的暴露在多大程度上是他感情的主要原因，以及一旦她最终不可避免地从他的生活中消失，他是否会简单地治愈这些情绪。当一个人在阳光明媚的地面上漫步时，很容易以这种清晰的方式思考。

But then night fell and he’d returned to being ensconced in his study before the fire. Clarity was harder to find then, replaced by memories of her kneeling between his legs, her face drifting so close to his that he rather thought he could have counted each of the freckles on her nose with his mind’s eye if he’d cared to do so. Her stubbornness, pride and argumentativeness added up to passion and, it turned out, that could manifest in rather more appealing ways. Recollections of soft lips, softer skin and breathless moans tended to make rational, measured thoughts roll their eyes and declare that a holiday was in order. 
但后来夜幕降临，他又回到了火灾前的书房里。那时，他更难找到清晰的信息，取而代之的是她跪在他的两腿之间，她的脸离他如此之近，以至于他宁愿认为如果他愿意的话，他可以用心灵的眼睛数出她鼻子上的每一个雀斑。她的固执、骄傲和争论加起来就是激情，事实证明，这可以以更吸引人的方式表现出来。回忆起柔软的嘴唇、柔软的皮肤和喘不过气来的呻吟，往往使理性、有分寸的思考翻白眼，宣布假期已经准备好了。

After a week, he had come to the conclusion that he didn’t regret what had happened. Not a moment of it. He regretted it so little that he was more than willing to do it again. It had been a long time since he'd had an encounter like that but even he could still recognise when it was worth repeating. 
一周后，他得出结论，他并不后悔所发生的事情。一刻也没有。他后悔得如此之少，以至于他非常愿意再做一次。他已经很久没有遇到过这样的遭遇了，但即使是他也能意识到什么时候值得重蹈覆辙。

Besides, he considered himself to be something of a goal driven individual and it had been quite some time since he’d had anything approaching a goal. The idea of what Granger would do to him if she ever got an inkling that he had, even in passing, thought of her as a goal, however, made him cross his legs protectively.
此外，他认为自己是一个目标驱动型的人，他已经有很长一段时间没有接近目标了。然而，如果她知道他曾经把她当作目标，格兰杰会怎么对待他，这让他保护性地交叉着双腿。

“And how did all of that go?”
“那这一切进展如何？”

“The baby is doing very well.”
“宝宝情况很好。”

Lucius bit back his impatience at her obfuscation. Was this what it was like talking to him? How infuriating. “And the thinking ?”
卢修斯忍住了他对她的混淆的不耐烦。这就是和他说话的感觉吗？多么令人愤怒。“那想法呢？”

“Less well.”
“不太好。”

Good , he thought viciously . It served her right for disappearing. He hoped it had been an unbearable week for her. A week of acute emotional suffering. Pain, sleepless nights, wistful daydreams. All of it. 
好，他恶狠狠地想着。 她有权利消失。他希望这对她来说是难以忍受的一周。一周的剧烈情绪痛苦。痛苦、不眠之夜、渴望的白日梦。所有这一切。

“Still struggling to come to terms with what you want?” he asked, purposely keeping his tone airy and conversational. She could load his question with meaning herself; he was sure she would. 
“还在努力接受你想要的吗？”他问道，故意保持语气轻快和对话。她自己也能把他的问题装满意思;他确信她会的。

Pursing her lips, Hermione elected to sidestep it entirely. “How’s your leg?” she asked, an unusually high concentration of venom in her voice that he actually found quite endearing. “Still struggling to stand on it without spite to motivate you?”
赫敏抿着嘴唇，选择完全避开它。“你的腿怎么样了？”她问道，她的声音里异常浓郁的毒液，他实际上觉得挺可爱的。“还在挣扎着站起来，却没有怨恨地激励你？”

“It’s fine,” he said with a sardonic smile. “Thank you for such sincere concern; it does you credit. Such a good, kind-hearted girl.”
“没事，”他带着讽刺的笑容说。“感谢你们如此真诚的关心;它值得称赞。真是个善良、善良的姑娘。

Huffing a sigh through her nose, Hermione dropped some of her defensiveness and adopted an expression that actually did seem close to concerned. “Do you want me to have a look at it?”
赫敏从鼻子里叹了口气，放下了一些防御，采取了一种实际上看起来确实近乎担忧的表情。“你想让我看看吗？”

“Do you want to have a look at it?”
“你想看看吗？”

“Lucius,” she said, weighing his name down with warning. 
“卢修斯，”她说，警告地压低了他的名字。

“ Hermione ,” he responded mockingly.
“赫敏，”他嘲讽地回答。

There was a tense silence in which they eyed one another, Lucius at his ease and Hermione fidgeting with her wand. 
他们面面相觑，一阵紧张的沉默，卢修斯轻松自在，赫敏则摆弄着她的魔杖。

“I’m going to the library,” she said, lunging forward to grab the Wheezebox from his desk. 
“我要去图书馆，”她说，一边冲上前去，从他的书桌上拿起了 Wheezebox。

Lucius watched with a complacent smile as she tidied away her things. Getting to her feet and hauling her bag up, she looked at him and opened her mouth as though she was considering speaking but then closed it again.
卢修斯得意地笑着看着她收拾自己的东西。她站起来，把包拽起来，看着他，张开嘴，好像在考虑说话，但又闭上了嘴。

“Bye,” she mumbled, leaving his study with her head down. 
“再见，”她喃喃自语，低着头离开了他的书房。

Lucius watched the door close, drumming his fingers on the desk. He allowed her to go because it was the clever thing to do. Just as giving her the space to think had been the clever thing to do. It wasn’t what he wanted to do but he thought Granger would appreciate it. 
卢修斯看着门关上，用手指敲打着桌子。他允许她走，因为这是个聪明的做法。就像给她思考的空间是聪明的做法一样。这不是他想做的，但他认为格兰杰会很感激。

He found he had the patience to show that kind of consideration because he knew she wanted him. He was sure of it. A witch didn’t kiss like that if she didn’t want the wizard in question. She just didn’t want to want him. From his perspective, it was surely just a matter of waiting; something he’d become very good at. 
他发现他有耐心表现出这种体贴，因为他知道她想要他。他很确定。如果一个女巫不想让巫师有问题，她就不会那样亲吻。她只是不想想要他。从他的角度来看，这肯定只是一个等待的问题;他变得非常擅长的事情。

He’d resisted his attraction to her, so he could hardly be surprised that she was doing the same. However, he had a feeling that, sooner rather than later, her resistance would go the same way as his. 
他抗拒了他对她的吸引力，所以他不会对她做同样的事情感到惊讶。然而，他有一种感觉，她的抵抗迟早会和他一样。

She’d made it clear he couldn’t have her hatred and he certainly wouldn’t accept her indifference—he wouldn’t accept that from anyone—so there was really only one thing for it. 
她已经明确表示他不能有她的仇恨，他当然不会接受她的冷漠——他不会接受任何人的这种冷漠——所以真的只有一件事。

Hermione sighed and set her quill down, stretching the stiffness out of her hand. Throwing herself into work after her days off was immensely satisfying. By the time she had returned to her flat from the Potters’ the previous evening, she’d been desperate to get her head down and continue writing. It was easy to forget a break could recharge the will to work in that way. 
赫敏叹了口气，放下了她的羽毛笔，将僵硬的羽毛笔从手中伸了出来。休息日后全身心投入工作是非常令人满意的。前一天晚上她从波特家回到自己的公寓时，她已经不顾一切地想低下头继续写作。人们很容易忘记休息可以给以这种方式工作的意愿充电。

Of course, returning to work also meant returning to Lucius. Hermione stared down at her quill, watching the way its finer feathers fluttered in response to her sharp exhalation. If she was being truly honest with herself, she’d been looking forward to meeting with Lucius as much as she’d been looking forward to getting back into her work. 
当然，重返工作岗位也意味着重返卢修斯身边。赫敏低头盯着她的羽毛笔，看着它更细的羽毛随着她尖锐的呼气而飘动。如果她真的对自己诚实的话，她一直期待着与卢修斯见面，就像她一直期待着回到她的工作中一样。

There had been a time when she’d dreaded going to that stuffy office with its intimidating atmosphere but it was long gone. She’d missed their sniping and it had only been a few days. There was no small amount of disappointment surrounding the idea that their interviews were coming to an end.
曾经有一段时间，她害怕去那个闷热的办公室，那里的气氛令人生畏，但它早已一去不复返了。她错过了他们的狙击，而且才几天。围绕着他们的采访即将结束的想法，人们感到不小的失望。

The main problem was that as soon as she’d set eyes on him earlier that afternoon, her mind had somewhat strayed from just talking. She’d thought of nothing except how he’d looked that night when she’d been straddling his lap. How he’d felt under her hands and between her thighs. All those days she’d spent rationalising, wasted. 
主要问题是，那天下午早些时候她一看到他，她的心思就有点偏离了仅仅说话。她什么也没想，只想过那天晚上她跨坐在他腿上时的样子。他在她的手下和她的大腿之间的感觉。那些日子她都花在了合理化上，浪费了。

He hadn’t helped matters with his obvious bloody delight in saying her name and in her saying his. It was ridiculous that he could make something so ordinary and innocent seem indecent. Or was she doing that for him? Loading his every word, his every look, with meaning. 
他显然对说出她的名字和她说他的名字感到非常高兴。他能让如此普通和无辜的事情显得不雅，这真是荒谬。还是她是为了他做的？他的每一个字，他的每一个眼神，都充满了意义。

Groaning, Hermione lowered her forehead onto the desk and rolled it against the cool wood. 
赫敏呻吟着，把额头低到桌子上，在冰凉的木头上滚动。

The best thing to do was tell Lucius to stop it and to rid him of the notion that they could go any further than they already had. She’d tell him she’d thought about it, as she’d promised, and make it crystal clear to him that nothing would ever happen between them. Never again, more accurately. It didn’t matter that she was attracted to him, it just wasn’t going to happen. It couldn’t. It was inappropriate and wrong and just not feasible. For all the good, sensible reasons that she’d repeatedly established with herself. 
最好的办法是告诉卢修斯停止它，并消除他们可以比现在更进一步的想法。她会告诉他她已经考虑过了，就像她承诺的那样，并向他明确表示他们之间永远不会发生任何事情。再也不会了，更准确地说。她被他吸引并不重要，只是它不会发生。它不能。这是不合适的、错误的，而且是不可行的。因为她一再与自己建立的所有美好、合理的理由。

Lifting her head, Hermione stared into the fire. They only had a couple of interviews left at most; perhaps the most sensible thing to do was to withdraw entirely once they were complete. Hanging around his library to work could potentially make things more difficult than they had to be. Never seeing him again felt extreme, certainly, but if their developing feelings were simply a result of prolonged exposure to one another – like some kind of emotional radiation – then perhaps cutting off contact, at least for a time, was best for both of them. 
赫敏抬起头，盯着火堆。他们最多只剩下几次采访了;也许最明智的做法是在它们完成后完全退出。在他的图书馆闲逛工作可能会使事情变得比他们必须的更困难。当然，再也见不到他的感觉很极端，但如果他们发展中的感情只是长期接触的结果——就像某种情绪辐射——那么也许切断联系，至少在一段时间内，对他们俩都是最好的。

Yes. Best for both of them. That’s what she’d tell him. Because that’s what it was.
是的。对他们俩来说都是最好的。她就是这么告诉他的。因为事情就是这样。

Hermione craned her neck to peer at the dome in the roof of the library, she saw that night had well and truly fallen. He would probably be in his study, then. Perfect . 
赫敏伸长脖子望着图书馆屋顶的圆顶，她看到那个夜晚已经真正地降临了。那么，他可能会在他的书房里。 完善。

Making her way down the hallway that led to Lucius’ study, Hermione found her certainty over what she was doing decreasing with every step. By the time she reached the door, she was actually quite keen to turn around and run. Chastising herself for such un-Gryffindor behaviour, she forced herself to knock before she could change her mind.
沿着通往卢修斯书房的走廊走去，赫敏发现她对自己所做的事情的确定性每走一步都在降低。当她走到门口时，她其实很想转身跑。她为这种不符合格兰芬多的行为而责备自己，在她改变主意之前强迫自己敲门。

“Come in.”
“进来。”

When Hermione stepped into the room, Lucius was standing by the leftmost window behind his desk, nursing a glass of firewhiskey. Seeing him standing there, his shirt sleeves rolled around his elbows, his broad shoulders relaxed, her resolve sputtered out about as easily as a candle. Suddenly, she could hardly remember why she’d stopped by in the first place. Something about kissing? No, not kissing.
当赫敏走进房间时，卢修斯正站在他桌子后面最左边的窗户旁，喝着一杯火威士忌。看到他站在那里，他的衬衫袖子卷在胳膊肘上，他宽阔的肩膀放松了下来，她的决心像蜡烛一样轻易地喷洒出来。突然间，她几乎想不起自己当初为什么会过来。关于接吻的事情？不，不是接吻。

Merlin and Morgana help me. 
Merlin 和 Morgana 帮助我。

He glanced over his shoulder with a questioning frown to see why she wasn’t making any more noise and spied her hovering in the doorway, her hand clenched around the doorknob and her eyes wide. “You look like you need a drink.”
他皱着眉头疑惑地回头看了一眼，想看看她为什么不再发出任何声音，并发现她徘徊在门口，她的手紧紧握住门把手，睁大了眼睛。“你看起来需要喝一杯。”

The words “yes please” were out of her mouth before she could stop them. Lucius stepped away from the window in the direction of his whiskeys and Hermione closed the door before moving across the room to take his place. While she stared down at the dark grounds, a gentle clunk followed by a series of tinkles from behind her signalled that he had set his own drink down to prepare hers. 
“是的，请”这几个字在她能够阻止之前就从她嘴里说出来了。卢修斯从窗户向他的威士忌方向走去，赫敏关上了门，然后穿过房间坐下。当她低头凝视着黑暗的地面时，一阵轻柔的叮当声，紧接着是她身后传来的一连串叮当声，表明他已经放下了自己的饮料，准备她的饮料。

“What were you looking at?” she asked, peering through the darkness. It was a less interesting view at night but something had obviously caught his attention.
“你在看什么？” 她问道，一边透过黑暗凝视着。晚上的景色不太有趣，但显然有什么东西引起了他的注意。

“A clan of fairies has made its home in one of the yew trees,” he said, raising a glass to eye level after pouring firewhiskey into it, “and I was contemplating whether or not I should bother getting rid of them.”
“一个仙女部落在一棵紫杉树上安家，”他说，倒入火威士忌后，将酒杯举到与眼睛齐平的位置，“我在考虑是否应该费心摆脱它们。

Hermione’s eyes scoured the trees visible from his window and eventually landed on one where she could just about make out the faint multi-coloured glow of dozens of fairies making a nest. It was a pretty sight, she thought.
赫敏的眼睛扫视着从窗户可以看到的树木，最终落在了一棵树上，在那里她几乎可以看清几十个仙女筑巢的微弱的五颜六色的光芒。那真是个漂亮的景象，她想。

“Lucius, you can’t do that.”
“卢修斯，你不能那样做。”

“They attract Bowtruckles,” he said with a sigh. “And those are a rather more annoying problem to have to contend with. I’ll save myself a great deal of trouble if I act now.”
“他们吸引了 Bowtruckles，”他叹了口气说。“而这些是一个相当烦人的问题，必须应对。如果我现在就行动起来，我就省去很多麻烦了。

Footsteps approached directly behind her. Hermione looked down and to the side as his arm came around her body to hand her a glass of firewhiskey. She accepted it with a murmured thank you, trying to ignore the sharp tug in her stomach when her fingers brushed against his. 
脚步声就在她身后逼近。赫敏低头看向一边，他的手臂搂住她的身体，递给她一杯火威士忌。她低声道谢，接受了它，试图忽略当她的手指擦过他的时，她肚子里的剧烈拉扯。

Taking a sip, Hermione closed her eyes appreciatively as the burning liquid slipped down her throat. She had a cheek to accept a drink from the man she had criticised for drinking too much but he’d been right: she needed it. Though she didn’t think he was standing particularly close, she could still feel him behind her, looking out of the window over her head. Another sip.
喝了一口，赫敏感激地闭上了眼睛，燃烧的液体顺着她的喉咙滑落。她厚着脸皮接受了那个她批评喝得太多的男人的饮料，但他是对的：她需要它。虽然她不觉得他站得特别近，但她仍然能感觉到他在她身后，看着窗外的头顶。再喝一口。

“You shouldn’t harm them.”
“你不应该伤害他们。”

“I never said I would,” he replied, a defensive undercurrent in his voice. “Tempting as it is. I just said I’d get rid of them. Perhaps you, with all your Department of Magical Creatures connections, could help me. Aren’t they supposed to regulate and control?”
“我从来没有说过我会，”他回答道，声音中带着一股防御的暗流。“虽然很诱人。我只是说我会摆脱他们。也许你，以及你所有的魔法生物部关系，可以帮助我。他们不是应该调节和控制吗？

Hermione glanced up and over her shoulder at him, finding his face sincere. “I could do that.”
赫敏抬头看了他一眼，发现他的脸上是真诚的。“我能做到。”

“Then I will hold off until you do.”
“那我就等你说。”

Turning back towards the window, Hermione slowly closed her eyes and exhaled into her drink as she took another swig from it, her breath fogging the crystal. It was as though he was trying to make it hard for her. He probably was. She had to put a stop to it.
赫敏转身走向窗户，慢慢地闭上眼睛，呼出一口气，她又喝了一口饮料，她的呼吸使水晶起雾。就好像他试图让她难受一样。他可能是。她必须制止它。

Steeling herself, Hermione turned and found he was standing closer than she’d initially thought. Had he stepped forward when she’d turned away? Looking up into his grey eyes, she swallowed the saliva that was rapidly gathering in her mouth.
赫敏振作起来，转过身来，发现他站得比她最初想象的要近。当她转身离开时，他有没有走上前来？她抬头看着他灰色的眼睛，吞下了嘴里迅速聚集的唾液。

“Something wrong, Hermione?” he asked, his voice soft. “You seem…uneasy.”
“有什么事吗，赫敏？” 他问道，声音轻柔。“你看起来......不安。

Determinedly dropping her gaze to fix her eyes on the buttons of his shirt, Hermione cleared her throat. “You’re standing very close, you know,” she said.
赫敏坚定地垂下目光，盯着他衬衫的纽扣，清了清嗓子。“你知道的，你站得很近，”她说。

A flicker of amusement passed over his face. “Am I?" he asked, as though he didn't know exactly how close he was standing. "My apologies.” 
他的脸上闪过一丝好笑。“是吗？” 他问道，仿佛他不知道自己站得有多近。“我很抱歉。”

Lucius took several steps back until he was at his desk. He leaned against it and set his drink down, holding his arms wide to wordlessly ask if that was enough distance. It wasn’t. He’d need to back up by several thousand more feet. Maybe try another continent. Bloody house arrest.
卢修斯后退了几步，直到他来到了他的办公桌前。他靠在瓶子上，放下饮料，张开双臂无言地问这是否足够。但事实并非如此。他需要再后退几千英尺。也许可以尝试另一个大陆。血腥的软禁。

“We can’t kiss again,” Hermione blurted out, her voice far louder than she intended. She barely managed to stop herself from slapping her hand over her own mouth but her cringe made it obvious that she wanted to.
“我们不能再接吻了，”赫敏脱口而出，她的声音比她想象的要大得多。她勉强阻止自己用手捂住自己的嘴巴，但她的畏缩清楚地表明她想这样做。

Lucius’ amusement only increased. “I never suggested such a thing.”
卢修斯的乐趣只增不减。“我从来没有提出过这样的事情。”

“I know you didn’t, I just—”
“我知道你没有，我只是——”

“Was it on your mind, by any chance?”
“你有没有想过？”

Hermione didn’t respond. Obviously it was on her mind. It was the only thing on her mind. He was the only thing on her mind and it was awful. She hated him for it. Hated herself for it.
赫敏没有回答。显然这是她的想法。这是她心中唯一的事情。 他是她心中唯一的东西，这太可怕了。她因此恨他。为此恨自己。

“Because that’s hardly my fault,” Lucius continued. “In case you’ve forgotten, you kissed me the second time. You don’t get to blame me for the consequences of your own actions.” His tone was teasing but Hermione caught a mean vindictiveness in it that touched a nerve.
“因为那不是我的错，”卢修斯继续说道。“万一你忘了，你第二次吻了我。你不能因为你自己行为的后果而责怪我。他的语气是戏弄的，但赫敏从中捕捉到了一种刻薄的报复性，触动了我的神经。

“You are—” She swallowed her words with a frustrated growl.
“你是——”她沮丧地咆哮着吞下了她的话。

“Go on, Hermione.” He crossed one ankle over the other and lowered himself to sit against the edge of his desk, tipping his head to the side with a mocking smile. “Tell me what you think of me. I confess, I’m exceedingly curious these days.”
“继续说，赫敏。”他把一只脚踝交叉在另一只脚踝上，低下身子靠着桌子的边缘坐下，把头歪向一边，露出一个嘲讽的笑容。“告诉我你对我的看法。我承认，这些天我非常好奇。

Rather than respond, Hermione raised her glass to her lips and drained the last of the firewhiskey from it. Sure that it was empty, she marched towards Lucius and, stopping in front of him, deposited it on his desk beside his glass with enough force to raise one of his eyebrows. 
赫敏没有回应，而是将杯子举到嘴边，喝掉了最后一瓶火威士忌。确定它是空的，她走向卢修斯，停在他面前，把它放在他杯子旁边的桌子上，力气足以扬起他的一道眉毛。

Now would be a good time to march off , she thought. Take the high road .
现在是出发的好时机，她想。 走高路。

“You are so smug .” 
“你真沾沾自喜。”

Or not .
或者不是。

Hermione pointed her finger into his chest, her ire growing when she saw a smile begin to creep its way over his face, his grey eyes drifting down to look at the point where she was touching him. Where was the man she’d found it so easy to rile in the beginning? He seemed to be enjoying this. 
赫敏用手指指着他的胸口，当她看到他的脸上开始浮现出笑容时，她的怒气越来越大，他灰色的眼睛向下飘移，看着她触碰他的地方。那个她一开始就这么容易被激怒的男人在哪里？他似乎很享受这个。

“And you think you’re so clever using my words against me but you aren’t and—”
“你以为你用我的话来对付我真聪明，但你不是，而且——”

Hermione broke off, searching desperately for her next words and his head inched forwards slightly as though he was listening closely for them, that stupid smirk still lifting one corner of his mouth. “And?”
赫敏打断了她的话，拼命地寻找她的下一句话，他的头微微向前微向前，仿佛他在仔细听他们说话，那愚蠢的笑容仍然扬起了他的嘴角。“然后？”

Impotent with frustration, Hermione opened her mouth and then closed it tight, her jaw ready to crumble under the pressure.
赫敏因沮丧而无能为力，张开嘴，然后又紧紧地闭上，她的下巴在压力下快要碎裂了。

“ And ?” he prompted, his eyebrows rising expectantly. 
“然后？” 他提示道，期待地扬起了眉毛。

"And I don't want you," she finally said, her heart sinking as she heard how pathetic, desperate and unconvincing the words sounded coming from her. “I’ve thought about it.”
“我不要你，”她终于说了，当她听到这些话听起来是多么可悲、绝望和没有说服力时，她的心沉了下来。“我想过了。”

Lucius shook his head, a pitying smile on his face as his eyes searched hers. "Didn't I tell you convincing lies have to contain at least a grain of truth?"
卢修斯摇了摇头，脸上露出可怜的笑容，他的眼睛打量着她。“我不是告诉过你，令人信服的谎言至少得包含一丝真相吗？”

“I am telling the truth.” She tried to inject some degree of conviction into her voice. ”And – and I think when our interviews are finished I should stop using your library. It’s for the best if I just – if we just leave each other alone. For a while, anyway.”
“我说的是实话。”她试图在自己的声音中注入某种程度的信念。“而且——我想等我们的采访结束后，我应该停止使用你们的图书馆。如果我只是——如果我们只是让彼此一个人呆着，那是最好的。总之，暂时是这样。

Lucius’ smile disappeared so fast Hermione had to resist the urge to look down to see if it had fallen on the floor. “I don’t bloody think so,” he said, his voice tight.
卢修斯的笑容消失得如此之快，赫敏不得不忍住低头看看是不是掉在地板上的冲动。“我不这么认为，”他说，声音紧绷。

Drawing herself up, a flash of irritation at his presumptuousness galvanising her spine, Hermione said, “If I don’t want to use your library anymore, I don’t have to, Lucius. I can just leave.”
赫敏站起身来，对他的自以为是感到一丝恼怒，刺激着她的脊椎，她说，“如果我不想再使用你的图书馆了，我就不必了，卢修斯。我可以走了。

“Well, then, perhaps I don’t want to do our next interview. In fact,” he added in a cold drawl, “perhaps I’d like to withdraw my contribution altogether.”
“好吧，那么，也许我不想做我们的下一次采访。事实上，“他冷冷地补充道，”也许我想完全撤回我的贡献。

“You can’t do that!”
“你不能那样做！”

“I think you’ll find it was one of the terms of my agreeing to take part in your project in the first place so…” Lucius pouted mockingly and shrugged. “I can.”
“我想你会发现这是我一开始同意参与你的项目的条件之一，所以......”卢修斯嘲讽地撅着嘴，耸了耸肩。“我可以。”

“Stop being so manipulative,” Hermione said, stepping forward with her hands clenched into tight fists.
“别这么操纵人了，”赫敏说，双手紧握成拳头，向前走了一步。

“Only if you stop being so infuriatingly pig-headed!” he growled. “What would your response to a papercut be, I wonder? To chop off your hand?”
“除非你不再那么令人恼火的猪头！”“我想知道，你对剪纸会有什么反应？剁掉你的手？

Pushing himself up from the desk so that he was at his full height, Lucius looked down at her and Hermione could hardly believe that he looked disappointed in her. What right did he have to be disappointed in her?
卢修斯从桌子上站起来，让自己处于最高度，低头看着她，赫敏几乎不敢相信他对她失望的样子。他有什么权利对她失望呢？

“You were supposed to think about what you want, not what you’re supposed to want.”
“你应该考虑你想要什么，而不是你应该想要什么。”

“Lucius—”
“卢修斯——”

“Where’s that brave little Gryffindor, hm?” he asked, tilting his head and inspecting her. “The one that’s been clawing her way into my life over the past few months? The one that doesn’t understand the meaning of the word ‘retreat?’ I find myself missing her.”
“那个勇敢的小格兰芬多呢，嗯？” 他问道，歪着头打量着她。“那个在过去几个月里一直在闯入我生活的那个？不理解“撤退”一词含义的人？我发现自己很想念她。

“She’s trying to do the sensible thing,” Hermione said through gritted teeth, the intensity of his gaze forcing her to drop hers to his chest. "The right thing."
“她在努力做明智的事情，”赫敏咬牙切齿地说，他目光的强烈迫使她把目光放到他的胸前。“正确的事情。”

“The right thing for who, exactly?” he asked, taking a step towards her to close the small amount of space between them. Hermione's clenched fists tightened to the degree that her nails dug painfully into her palms. “It doesn’t feel like the right thing for me. And certainly not for you. You’ve always been so hungry for knowledge, Hermione. Inexorable in the pursuit of it. Don’t you want to know?”
“到底是谁的合适之选？” 他问道，向她迈出一步，拉近了他们之间的一小段距离。赫敏紧握的拳头紧握着，指甲痛苦地深深地扎进了她的手掌。“这对我来说感觉不是正确的事情。当然不是为了你。你一直都那么渴望知识，赫敏。无情地追求它。你不想知道吗？

“Know what ?”
“知道什么吗？”

“What it would be like.” He lowered his head to speak into her ear and she closed her eyes, breath held as her toes pressed down hard in her shoes. The warmth of him, the closeness, was overwhelming. “What it would be like to get exactly what you want. From me.”
“那会是什么样子。”他低下头对她说话，她闭上眼睛，脚趾用力压在鞋子里，屏住呼吸。他的温暖，那种亲密，让人难以抗拒。“得到你想要的东西会是什么感觉。从我这里。

Hermione’s eyes snapped open. “Because I have to consider more than just what I want before I do something, Lucius,” she said, stepping back from him to hide the shiver of desire that rippled through her. “You of all people should know the importance of that.”
赫敏猛然睁开了眼睛。“因为在我做某事之前，我必须考虑的不仅仅是我想要什么，卢修斯，”她说，从他身边退开，以掩盖在她身上荡漾的欲望颤抖。“你们所有人都应该知道这一点的重要性。”

He glowered, straightening up. “What else is there to think about in this particular instance? It’s hardly life or death.”
他瞪了一眼，直起身来。“在这个特定的情况下，还有什么需要考虑的呢？这几乎不是生死攸关的问题。

Hermione raised a finger to her chin in a sarcastic imitation of deep thought. “Hmm, just one of many things off the top of my head: I’m supposed to be advocating for you soon. What do you think the Wizengamot would say about my testimony if they knew it was…that we…that I was… compromised ?” 
赫敏把一根手指举到她的下巴上，讽刺地模仿着深思。“嗯，这只是我脑海中浮现的许多事情之一：我应该很快就会为你辩护。你觉得如果威森加摩知道我的证词是......我们......我是...... 被攻破了？

Lucius snorted on the word ‘compromised’ and Hermione huffed, crossing her arms. “I’m serious!”
卢修斯对“妥协”这个词哼了一声，赫敏气喘吁吁，交叉着双臂。“我是认真的！”

Lucius raised an eyebrow and placed his hands on his hips, a short, sharp sigh through his nose making his shoulders drop. “The Wizengamot want you to tell them why you think I ought to be given another chance, yes?”
卢修斯挑起眉毛，双手放在臀部上，鼻子发出一声短促而尖锐的叹息，让他的肩膀垂了下来。“威森加摩要你告诉他们为什么你觉得我应该再给我一次机会，是吗？”

Hermione nodded hesitantly. That was the gist of it, certainly. A written statement detailing her request and her rationale. 
赫敏犹豫地点点头。当然，这就是它的要点。详细说明她的请求和理由的书面声明。

“And are you planning to say it’s because you are uncontrollably attracted to me?”
“你是不是打算说这是因为你无法控制地被我吸引？”

Hermione flushed, her eyes widening. “No.”
赫敏涨红了脸，睁大了眼睛。“不。”

“Are you planning to reveal that you’d like me to have my magic back because you fear a lack of it has impacted my virility?”
“你是不是打算透露你希望我拿回我的魔法，因为你担心缺乏它会影响我的男子气概？”

“ Lucius!” 
“卢修斯！”

“Goodness, Hermione, are you really telling me that you intend to tell the highly respected Wizengamot that the reason you want to see me freed from the manor is so that I can fulfil your fantasy of being ravished between the shelves of the Ministry Archives?”
“天哪，赫敏，你真的在告诉我，你打算告诉备受尊敬的威森加摩，你想看到我从庄园里被释放出来，是为了让我能实现你被蹂躏在魔法部档案馆的书架之间的幻想吗？”

Hermione turned apoplectic with mortification, her entire body stiffening. “I’m going to bloody–” 
赫敏羞愧地变得不合时宜，她的整个身体都僵硬了起来。“我要了——”

Placing her palms on Malfoy's chest with the intention of shoving him, Hermione found herself halted by Lucius encasing her hands in his. He pressed them flat against his chest and held them there.
赫敏将手掌放在马尔福的胸前，打算推他一把，但她发现自己被卢修斯把她的手缠在他的手里阻止了。他把它们平压在胸前，然后抱在那里。

Swallowing hard, her breath coming fast, Hermione realised she could feel his heart hammering beneath her palms.
赫敏用力吞咽，呼吸急促，她意识到她能感觉到他的心在她的手掌下跳动。

“What are you going to tell the Wizengamot, Hermione?”
“你打算对威森加摩说什么，赫敏？”

“I’m going to tell them you’re a bloody twat , Lucius Malfoy,” she said, her voice shaking and an awful stinging at the back of her nose. “I do not want to be –”
“我要告诉他们你是个该死的混蛋，卢修斯·马尔福，”她说，她的声音颤抖着，鼻子后部发出可怕的刺痛。“我不想成为——”

“You are going to tell them that you have spent months with me,” Lucius interrupted, his voice firm and stern. “You are going to tell them that you think my outlook has drastically changed, in no small part thanks to you. You are going to tell them that I am contrite. You are going to tell them that you are too kind and forgiving for your own good and that, incredibly, you want to allow me to feel the benefit of that. At no point are you going to tell them anything other than the truth.”
“你要告诉他们，你已经和我在一起好几个月了，”卢修斯打断了他，他的声音坚定而严厉。“你要告诉他们，你认为我的观点已经发生了翻天覆地的变化，这在很大程度上要归功于你。你要告诉他们我很懊悔。你要告诉他们，为了你自己的利益，你太善良和宽容了，令人难以置信的是，你想让我感受到这样做的好处。除了真相，你绝对不会告诉他们任何事情。

Hermione felt as though all the air had left the room. Mouth slightly open, she finally looked up into his face properly as he slowly released her hands from beneath his. Rather than drop her own hands, however, she couldn’t seem to withdraw them from his chest. 
赫敏觉得好像所有的空气都离开了房间。嘴巴微微张开，当他慢慢地从他的手下松开她的手时，她终于适当地抬头看着他的脸。然而，她并没有放下自己的手，而是似乎无法将它们从他的胸口抽出。

“Do you understand?” he asked quietly. “You made your decision before any of this and you need to trust your judgement. I don’t intend to do anything that will make you regret it. Aside from anything else, I think my little jaunt out of the manor — most of my adult life, in fact — proves that the Ministry and the Wizengamot aren’t quite as all-seeing as they think they are. And what they don’t know won’t hurt them, hm?”
“你明白吗？”“你在这一切之前就做出了决定，你需要相信你的判断。我不打算做任何会让你后悔的事情。撇开别的不谈，我认为我走出庄园的那次短途旅行——实际上是我成年后的大部分时间——证明了魔法部和威森加摩并不像他们想象的那么无所不知。他们不知道的东西不会伤害他们，嗯？

Slowly, Hermione curled her fingers in his shirt. It was risky, it was selfish, it was short-term thinking, it was—cutting her own thoughts short with an aggravated snarl, she yanked his shirt to pull him down and crush her lips against his. 
慢慢地，赫敏把手指卷进了他的衬衫里。这是冒险的，是自私的，是短视的思考，就是——她用一声恼怒的咆哮打断了自己的思绪，她扯着他的衬衫把他拉下来，用她的嘴唇压在他的嘴唇上。

If Lucius was surprised, he didn’t show it. He brought both of his hands to Hermione’s waist to yank her body flush with his, pulling her so off balance that she had to clutch at him to stay upright. It was as though he’d been waiting for her and while a part of her knew she should be irritated by that, mostly she was just grateful. It would have been mildly humiliating otherwise.
如果卢修斯感到惊讶，他并没有表现出来。他把双手放在赫敏的腰上，把她的身体拉得和他的身体齐平，把她拉得失去平衡，她不得不紧紧抓住他才能保持直立。就好像他一直在等她一样，虽然她的一部分知道她应该为此感到恼火，但大多数时候她只是感激不尽。否则，那会有点羞辱。

Sliding her arms up around his neck, she rose fully onto her tiptoes to draw him in closer and took her remaining frustration out on him by sinking her teeth into his lower lip. To her bewilderment, that only seemed to encourage him and he parted his lips for her, sliding his tongue against hers. 
她用手臂搂住他的脖子，踮起脚尖，把他拉得更近，然后把牙齿咬进他的下唇，把她剩下的挫败感发泄在他身上。令她困惑的是，这似乎只是在鼓励他，他为她分开了嘴唇，用舌头滑过她的舌头。

Just like last time, Hermione was aware of a voice in her head insisting that what she was doing was absolutely wrong. Unlike last time, she had no intention of obeying it. In the week she’d spent raking over their first kiss in her mind, she’d tried to convince herself she’d mythologised it. Apparently not; this one was just as good, if not better. More urgent and less hesitant.
就像上次一样，赫敏意识到她脑海中有一个声音坚持认为她所做的绝对是错误的。与上次不同的是，她无意服从它。在她脑海中耿耿于他们的初吻的一周里，她试图说服自己她已经把它神话化了。显然不是;这个同样好，如果不是更好的话。更紧急，更少犹豫。

Using his hold on her waist, Lucius turned her and Hermione felt her lower back pressed against the edge of his desk as he pinned her in place with his hips, his body warm and solid against hers. 
卢修斯抓住她的腰，把她转过来，赫敏感觉到她的下背部压在他的桌子边缘，他用臀部把她固定在原地，他的身体温暖而坚实地贴在她的身上。

He wouldn’t have stopped, she recalled with a swoop in her stomach that was like cresting the top of a rollercoaster. Well, she wasn’t going to stop him. Emboldened by this decision, Hermione brought her hands down from his neck to pull at his shirt, grinding her hips up against him.
他不会停下来的，她回忆道，她的肚子猛地一跳，就像爬上了过山车的顶部。好吧，她不会阻止他。这个决定让赫敏的勇气大增，她把手从他的脖子上伸下来，拉扯着他的衬衫，用臀部抵住他。

Breaking their kiss, his breath hot against her face, Lucius took both of her hands in his to lower them onto the desk on either side of her hips. Chest heaving, Hermione’s eyes locked with his as he covered the backs of her hands with his palms and pressed down to hold her in place.
打断了他们的吻，他的呼吸炙热地贴在她的脸上，卢修斯握住她的双手，将它们放到她臀部两侧的桌子上。胸口起伏，赫敏的眼睛紧紧地盯着他，他用手掌盖住她的手背，向下按压以将她固定在原地。

“What do you really want, Hermione?” he asked. “Right now?”
“你真正想要什么，赫敏？”“现在？”

“I don’t want to stop this time,” she said, her voice quivering and her eyes flicking down as his mouth hovered centimetres from hers. Every instinct told her not to give Lucius Malfoy what he wanted but when she wanted it too, why shouldn’t she? At a certain point she was just spiting herself, surely.
“这次我不想停下来，”她说，她的声音颤抖着，当他的嘴巴悬停在离她几厘米的地方时，她的眼睛向下眨了眨。每一种直觉都告诉她不要给卢修斯·马尔福他想要的东西，但当她也想要它时，她为什么不呢？在某个时刻，她肯定只是在吐口水。

Lucius brushed a kiss over her lips and she could feel his satisfied smile. 
卢修斯在她的嘴唇上亲了一下，她能感受到他满意的笑容。

“Brave little Gryffindor,” he murmured as he moved his mouth to her jaw and ran kisses along it. 
“勇敢的小格兰芬多，”他喃喃自语着，把嘴凑到她的下巴上，顺着它亲吻。

Hermione immediately tipped her head back with a whimper, giving him better access to her neck. He took full advantage of it, pressing his hands more heavily over hers as he nipped at a sensitive point beneath her ear that raised goosebumps down her arms. 
赫敏立即呜咽着把头向后仰，让他更好地接近她的脖子。他充分利用了这一点，用手更重地按在她的身上，同时咬住她耳朵下方的敏感点，这让她的手臂起了鸡皮疙瘩。

Lifting his hands from hers, he trailed them up her arms and down her sides to pull her tighter against him so that her front was pressed against the solid length of his body, sandwiching her between himself and the desk. 
他从她的手上抬起，沿着她的手臂往下拖曳，沿着她的身体两侧拖曳，把她拉得更紧，这样她的前部就压在他坚实的身体上，把她夹在他和桌子之间。

His hands fisted in the material of her dress at her back and gripped her skin through it. In response, Hermione pulled at the collar of his shirt to bring his lips back to hers and began undoing some of the buttons. 
他的手握紧了她背后裙子的材质，隔着它抓住了她的皮肤。作为回应，赫敏拉了拉他的衬衫领子，把他的嘴唇拉回到她的嘴唇上，然后开始解开一些纽扣。

“It’s possible I have judged Muggle clothing too harshly in the past,” he murmured against her lips as he tugged up the hem of her loose-fitting summer dress. Hermione snorted with soft laughter as the thin material tickled her upper thighs, just about revealing her white cotton underwear to him. 
“我过去对麻瓜服装的评判可能太苛刻了，”他对着她的嘴唇喃喃自语，一边拉起她宽松的夏装下摆。赫敏轻声哼了一声，薄薄的布料搔痒着她的大腿上部，几乎要向他露出她的白色棉质内裤。

"Are you admitting that you like it?" she asked, looking down to take in how much of her he'd already revealed.
“你承认你喜欢它吗？”她问道，低头看了看他已经透露了多少她。

"I appreciate its advantages."
“我很欣赏它的好处。”

The dress rose up over her hips as they kissed and, for the second time in two weeks, Lucius' hands came to rest on her knickers. He kneaded her backside with his palms, his firm grasp of her somehow managing to pull her hips even closer to his. 
当他们接吻时，裙子从她的臀部升起，两周内，卢修斯的手第二次放在她的短裤上。他用手掌揉捏着她的后背，他牢牢抓住她，不知何故设法将她的臀部拉得更靠近他的臀部。

Fisting the dress in place at her back with one hand, he followed the path of the waistband around with the other and, her dress just curtaining over his wrist, he cupped her fully. 
他一只手把裙子放在她背上的位置，另一只手顺着腰带的路径转来转去，她的裙子刚好挂在他的手腕上，他把她完全罩住了。

As heat met heat, both uttered quiet noises, Lucius' closer to a groan and Hermione's more of a gasp. Seeking friction, Hermione bucked against his hand, drawing raised eyebrows from him. Without a word, however, he stiffened his middle finger and rocked it against her through her knickers. Hermione reached behind her to grip the edge of the desk tightly, biting her lip to hold back a moan as she allowed her legs to slide further apart, watching his wrist flex. 
当热度与热度相遇时，两人都发出了安静的声音，卢修斯的呻吟更接近了，而赫敏的则更像是喘息。为了寻求摩擦，赫敏顶住了他的手，引来了他扬起的眉毛。然而，他一言不发地伸出中指，隔着她的短裤在她身上摇晃。赫敏把手伸到她身后，紧紧抓住桌子的边缘，咬着嘴唇忍住呻吟，让她的双腿进一步分开，看着他的手腕弯曲。

Releasing her dress at her back so that its hem dropped onto the desk behind her, Lucius cupped her face, his long fingers curving around the nape of her neck as his thumb setted just beneath her lips. Hermione looked up at him, expression hazy and questioning as, with a quiet “ah ah”, he pressed his thumb down to pull her lower lip free from where she had it pinned between her teeth.
卢修斯解开她背上的裙子，让裙摆落在她身后的桌子上，卢修斯捧住她的脸，他修长的手指在她的后颈上弯曲，拇指正好放在她的嘴唇下方。赫敏抬头看着他，表情朦胧而疑惑，轻声地“啊啊”一声，他把拇指往下压，把她的下唇从她被夹在牙齿之间的地方拉出来。

“Let me hear you, Hermione.”
“让我听你说，赫敏。”

Hermione moaned softly and leaned her face into his hand. There was no doubt in her mind that he could feel how wet she was growing even through the cotton. Rising slightly onto her tiptoes, her bum just anchoring on the edge of the desk, she pushed her hips up to rock back against him, her grip on the wood behind her so tight that her knuckles flashed white. Looking up from under her lashes, she met his eyes to find them dark and hungry.
赫敏轻声呻吟着，把脸靠在他的手里。毫无疑问，在她的心中，他能感觉到她即使隔着棉花也生长得多么湿漉漉的。她踮起脚尖微微站起，屁股刚好固定在桌子的边缘，她抬起臀部，向后靠着他摇晃，她紧紧地抓着身后的木头，以至于她的指关节闪过白色。她从睫毛下抬起头来，与他的眼睛相遇，发现它们又黑又饿。

His fingers curled at the nape of her neck, pulling her hair gently to raise her face to his so that he could place a firm, demanding kiss on her lips. Just as his tongue slid against hers, he hooked his fingers into the gusset of her knickers and tugged them down slightly so that he could push them to the side. He swallowed her moan as his fingers finally made direct contact with the wetness of her core.
他的手指蜷曲在她的后颈上，轻轻拉扯她的头发，将她的脸抬高到他的脸上，这样他就可以在她的嘴唇上做一个坚定而苛刻的吻。当他的舌头滑过她的舌头时，他把手指钩进她的短裤的衬料里，轻轻地把它们往下拉，这样他就可以把它们推到一边了。他吞下了她的呻吟，他的手指终于直接接触到了她核心的湿润。

Hermione broke their kiss to make a noise of quiet desperation, her eyes closing and her chin dropping towards her chest as he skimmed over her clit. Lucius rubbed gently at her folds, his fore and middle fingers massaging up and down before he dipped them down to her entrance. Hermione’s legs instinctively slid further apart, encouraging him to go further. Lucius eased his middle finger into her and Hermione moaned, angling her hips forward to force it deeper until she felt the cool metal of his emerald ring settle against her overheated skin.
赫敏打破了他们的吻，发出了无声的绝望的声音，她闭上眼睛，下巴垂向胸前，他掠过她的阴蒂。卢修斯轻轻地揉搓着她的褶皱，他的食指和中指上下按摩，然后将它们浸入她的入口处。赫敏的双腿本能地滑得更远，鼓励他走得更远。卢修斯将中指伸进她的身体里，赫敏呻吟着，向前倾斜她的臀部以使其更深，直到她感觉到他的祖母绿戒指的冰凉金属落在她过热的皮肤上。

Dropping his hand from her face, Lucius set about bunching her dress back up, this time bringing it fully over her hips to clear his view. Being on her feet didn’t make it the most comfortable situation but Hermione found she didn’t particularly care when she looked down to see his hand cupped against her, her knickers pushed carelessly to the side.
卢修斯把手从她的脸上放开，开始把她的裙子收起来，这一次它完全盖在她的臀部上，以清理他的视线。站起来并不是最舒服的情况，但赫敏发现，当她低头看到他的手紧贴着她，她的短裤漫不经心地推到一边时，她并不特别在意。

He stroked in and out several times before adding another finger, matching the rhythm of his thrusts to the undulations of Hermione’s hips, his eyes intent on her. As his fingers curled inside her, pressing against her, his thumb managed to find her clit and she whined, her head dropping back.
他进进出出好几次，然后又增加了一根手指，使他的节奏与赫敏臀部的起伏相匹配，他的眼睛专注于她。当他的手指蜷缩在她体内，压在她身上时，他的拇指设法找到了她的阴蒂，她呻吟着，头向后仰。

Assessing her tiptoe position, Lucius withdrew his hand from her to grip the back of her thigh and help her more fully onto the surface of his desk, her dress pooled around her hips. The wood was cold against her bare skin and she could feel her own wetness smeared on the back of her thigh where he’d touched it but in her feverish state she barely cared as she spread them, pulling him in closer. 
卢修斯评估了她的踮起脚尖的位置，将手从她身上抽出，抓住她的大腿后部，帮助她更充分地躺在他的桌子上，她的裙子聚集在她的臀部上。木头在她裸露的皮肤上很冷，她能感觉到自己的湿漉漉的污渍涂抹在她大腿后部，他触碰过它的地方，但在她发烧的状态下，她几乎不在乎她把它们摊开，把他拉得更近。

Being up higher brought her face more in line with his and he cupped the back of her neck with his left hand, keeping her locked in a bruising kiss while his right hand moved back under her dress, his thumb running along the crease where her thighs met her hips. He tickled her hip and brushed over her stomach, her abdominal muscles trembling and tensing as his touch travelled upwards. 
抬得更高，她的脸更贴近他的脸，他用左手搂住她的后颈，让她陷入一个瘀伤的吻中，而他的右手则移到她的裙子下面，他的拇指沿着她大腿与臀部交汇处的折痕滑过。他挠着她的臀部，抚摸着她的肚子，她的腹部肌肉随着他的触摸而颤抖和紧绷。

The tips of his fingers reached the underside of her bra and when he roughly shoved under the underwire, Lucius made a soft, desperate noise in the back of his throat as he made contact with the bare skin. Cupping her breast in his hand, he ran the pad of his thumb over her nipple. Hermione moaned into his mouth and it turned into a gasp as he lightly pinched her. 
他的指尖碰到了她胸罩的下侧，当他粗暴地推到钢圈下时，卢修斯在接触到裸露的皮肤时，喉咙后部发出了轻柔而绝望的声音。他用手捧住她的乳房，用拇指垫滑过她的。赫敏在他的嘴里呻吟着，当他轻轻地捏住她时，它变成了喘息。

His hand began moving south again, the dress slowly lowering back down with it, and Hermione leaned back on her hands to watch his progress, her breath becoming more shallow with every inch he travelled. 
他的手又开始向南移动，裙子也慢慢地放了下来，赫敏靠在她的手上，看着他的进展，她的呼吸随着他的每一寸移动而变得更加浅。

Eventually, he stopped at her knickers, his eyes flicking up to hers. Flattening her hands against the desk, Hermione lifted herself just enough to allow him to tug the material down over her thighs. When it reached her knees, he allowed it to fall down over her trainers onto the floor before pushing her legs apart and returning to his position between them. 
最终，他在她的短裤前停了下来，他的眼睛眨向她的眼睛。赫敏将双手压在桌子上，抬起身子，刚好让他把材料拉到她的大腿上。当它到达她的膝盖时，他让它从她的运动鞋上掉到地板上，然后把她的双腿分开，回到他之间的位置。

Hermione wasted no time in reaching for the waistband of his trousers, pulling at the zip, her fingers clumsily brushing against the hard bulge there. Seemingly of their own volition, his hips pushed towards her hand.
赫敏不失时机地伸手去拉他的裤腰，拉着拉链，她的手指笨拙地抚摸着那里坚硬的凸起。似乎是他们自愿的，他的臀部推向了她的手。

“Granger,” he said, his voice choked. “Patience.”
“格兰杰，”他说，他的声音哽咽着。“耐心。”

“No,” she snapped. She’d been patient enough. She hadn’t wanted anyone so much in years and she wanted to do it while she was feeling brave enough. “Just help me,” she said, fumbling with his button, “what do you have these fastened with, a permanent sticking charm?”
“不，”她厉声说。她已经足够有耐心了。她已经很多年没有这么想要任何人了，她想在她觉得自己足够勇敢的时候这样做。“帮帮我，”她说，摸索着他的纽扣，“你用什么固定的这些，一个永久的粘咒？

Batting her hands away, Lucius gripped her hips and pulled her roughly to the edge of the desk, forcing her to clutch his shirt to keep herself upright. Without needing any encouragement, Hermione wrapped her legs around his waist, locking one ankle over the other. Lucius manoeuvred his hand into the small space left between them to undo his trousers with an ease that actually aggravated her and groaned with relief as he eased himself over the waistband. 
卢修斯甩开她的手，抓住她的臀部，粗暴地把她拉到桌子的边缘，强迫她紧紧抓住他的衬衫以保持直立。不需要任何鼓励，赫敏就把双腿缠在他的腰上，把一只脚踝锁在另一只脚踝上。卢修斯把手伸进他们之间的狭小空间里，轻松地解开了他的裤子，这实际上让她很恼火，当他放松自己在腰带上时，他松了一口气。

The air between them was heavy and warm, their breathing overly loud and ragged in the stillness in the rest of the room. Though they were on the precipice, about to do something momentous that absolutely could not be reversed, Hermione could focus on nothing but the blunt hardness of him against her entrance and shifted her hips encouragingly. 
他们之间的空气沉重而温暖，他们的呼吸过于响亮，在房间其余部分的寂静中显得格外粗糙。虽然他们正处于悬崖边上，即将做一些绝对无法逆转的重大事情，但赫敏只能专注于他对她入口的钝硬，并鼓励地移动她的臀部。

“Please,” she whispered, closing her eyes as though that would help her deny that the embarrassingly needy voice she’d just heard was her own.
“拜托，”她低声说，闭上眼睛，仿佛这样可以帮助她否认她刚刚听到的那个令人尴尬的需要的声音是她自己的。

They exhaled simultaneously as he slowly pushed into her, like the action was forcing air out of their lungs. Hermione wasn’t sure if it was because it’d been so long since she’d last slept with someone but the sensation of being filled inch-by-inch straddled the burning line between pleasure and pain, causing her to close her eyes even tighter and grip him hard.
当他慢慢地推入她时，他们同时呼出一口气，就像这个动作正在将空气从他们的肺中挤出来一样。赫敏不确定是不是因为她已经很久没有和别人睡过了，但一寸一寸被填满的感觉跨越了快乐和痛苦之间的灼热界限，使她更紧地闭上了眼睛，用力地抓住了他。

When he was finally buried in her to the hilt, he took a moment to compose himself, pressing his forehead to hers and closing his own eyes. Hermione captured his lips in a kiss, nudging her hips forward and, taking her signal, he began to move. One hand spanning her back and another gripping her left thigh, the pace he set was slow at first and Hermione was grateful as she adjusted to him. 
当他终于被埋在她的刀柄里时，他花了一点时间让自己冷静下来，把自己的额头贴在她的额头上，闭上了自己的眼睛。赫敏亲吻了他的嘴唇，把她的臀部向前推了推，接受了她的信号，他开始动起来。一只手跨过她的背，另一只手抓住她的左大腿，他设定的速度一开始很慢，赫敏很感激她适应了他。

It felt as though he was pushing and pulling against every nerve inside of her and, very quickly, her soft, sighing pants turned into deep moans. She tightened her legs around him and leaned back on her hands, lifting her hips to increase the pace and prompt him to do the same. He obliged, his hand on her thigh gripping with a bruising tightness. He ran it upwards until he reached between her legs and began to circle her clit with his thumb, his long fingers splayed across her lower stomach.
感觉就像他在推拉她体内的每一根神经，很快，她柔软、叹息的裤子变成了深沉的呻吟。她收紧双腿搂着他，向后靠在她的手上，抬起臀部以增加速度并促使他也这样做。他答应了，他的手放在她的大腿上，紧紧地绷着。他向上滑，直到他把手伸到她的两腿之间，开始用拇指绕着她的阴蒂，修长的手指在她的下腹部张开。

Hermione bucked against him, desperate for a release that was determinedly staying out of her reach. Every time she thought she was getting close to the edge, it receded from her like the tide, that annoying, ever-active part of her mind loudly reminding her who she was fucking and questioning. Constantly questioning. Was it wrong? Why did it feel so good if it was wrong? Was he enjoying it as much as her? What if he wasn’t? Should she care?
赫敏反抗着他，不顾一切地想要一种坚决远离她的释放。每次她以为自己已经接近边缘时，它就会像潮水一样从她身边退去，她脑海中那个烦人的、永远活跃的部分大声地提醒她她在他妈的是谁并质疑她。 不断的质疑。错了吗？如果它是错误的，为什么感觉这么好？他和她一样喜欢吗？如果他不是呢？她应该在乎吗？

It didn’t matter that she wanted to ignore it. A noise that mixed pleasure and anger broke free from Hermione’s throat, followed by a ragged "I can't ". 
她想无视它并不重要。赫敏的喉咙里发出一阵夹杂着快乐和愤怒的声音，紧接着是一声破烂的“我不能”。

Eyes closed, she dropped her head back so that her hair trailed down her back, resigned to the idea that she probably wasn’t going to come and that he’d probably take it as a personal slight and get frustrated with her about it the way Ron had when she’d gotten like this.
她闭上眼睛，把头往后仰，让头发顺着背后垂下来，接受了她可能不会来的想法，他可能会把这当作个人的轻视，并像罗恩那样对她感到沮丧。

"Can't?" he asked breathlessly, even incredulously. 
“不能吗？” 他气喘吁吁地问道，甚至难以置信。

"I can't – I want – but it won't – "
“我不能——我想要——但不会——”

His hand on her back tightened its grip, pulling her up and into him until they were almost melded together. He buried himself even more deeply inside of her with a sharp snap of his hips that made her cry out. 
他放在她背上的手紧紧地握住了她，把她拉起来，拉进了他的身体里，直到他们几乎融合在一起。他把自己埋得更深了，臀部猛地一拍，让她哭了出来。

Then he began to speak, his breath hot on the shell of her ear. A stream of words poured out of him, his usually cut glass voice lowered to a gravelly rumble. He encouraged her, praised her, told her how good she felt around him and how much he wanted to feel her come. She was his good girl, his clever girl, his brilliant witch. 
然后他开始说话，他的呼吸在她的耳壳上滚烫。一连串的话语从他身上涌出，他平时割裂的玻璃嗓音压低成了沙哑的隆隆声。他鼓励她，赞美她，告诉她她在他身边的感觉有多好，他多么想感觉到她的到来。她是他的好女孩，他的聪明女孩，他聪明的女巫。

Hermione moaned, digging her heels into him and bringing one hand up to grip the back of his neck to keep him close. Listening to him helped dim her annoying internal monologue, turning it into a sort of background hum in her mind. Correctly interpreting her response as an invitation to carry on, he did, and she squeezed her eyes closed to focus purely on his words and the feeling of him inside of her. 
赫敏呻吟着，用高跟鞋深深地他身上，抬起一只手抓住他的后颈，让他紧紧地靠近。听他说话帮助她减弱了烦人的内心独白，把它变成了她脑海中的一种背景嗡嗡声。他正确地将她的回答理解为继续前进的邀请，他做到了，她闭上眼睛，完全专注于他的话语和他内心的感觉。

As he moved faster, his rhythm becoming erratic and his words increasingly breathless, Hermione’s mewls of pleasure turned into genuine pleas for release.
随着他移动得更快，他的节奏变得不稳定，他的话语越来越喘不过气来，赫敏的快乐喵喵叫变成了真诚的释放请求。

"You can. Be a good little witch, Hermione. Come for me." 
“你可以。做个好小女巫，赫敏。来找我。

Hermione's orgasm hit her like a tidal wave, her mind washed blissfully blank as she let out a relieved, ecstatic cry and allowed her head to drop back again.
赫敏的高潮像海浪一样击中了她，她的脑海里一片幸福的空白，她发出了如释重负、欣喜若狂的哭泣，让她的头再次低下。

He pressed his face into the point where her neck curved into her shoulder, muffling his groan as he came shortly after her. By degrees, his thrusts slowed to a stop and he stayed buried inside of her, his face pressed into her skin and hair. Still coming down from her orgasm, Hermione kept both of her legs wrapped around him and one of her arms, while keeping herself steady with the other. Their ragged breathing and the crackles and snaps coming from the fireplace were the only sounds for a while.
他把脸贴在她脖子弯曲到肩膀上的地方，在她身后不久就压住了他的呻吟。渐渐地，他的减慢到停止，他一直埋在她的体内，他的脸贴在她的皮肤和头发上。赫敏仍然从高潮中下来，她的双腿缠着他和她的一只手臂，同时用另一只手臂保持稳定。他们粗重的呼吸声和壁炉发出的噼啪声和啪啪声是一阵子里唯一的声音。

Eventually, Hermione unlocked her legs from around his waist and, a few moments later, she lowered her arm from around his neck. Slowly, he drew back from her and straightened up to fix his trousers. 
最终，赫敏从他的腰间解开了她的双腿，片刻之后，她从他的脖子上放下了手臂。慢慢地，他从她身边抽身，直起身来整理他的裤子。

Certain that he looked neater than her, Hermione hurriedly and self-consciously closed her legs, adjusting her bra and pulling at her dress to cover her exposed bottom half. There was a sticky wetness between her legs and she sincerely hoped that she wouldn’t leave anything on his desk when she found it in herself to get off of it. 
赫敏确定他看起来比她更整洁，于是急忙下意识地合上了她的双腿，调整了她的胸罩，拉扯她的裙子，遮住了她裸露的下半身。她的两腿之间有一股粘稠的湿漉漉的，她真诚地希望当她发现自己发现要摆脱它时，她不会在他的桌子上留下任何东西。

When she looked up he was bending over to pick something up from the floor and she was mortified to see when he straightened up that it was her knickers. He held them out, dangling them on one finger, and Hermione immediately snatched at them, balling them up in her fist. 
当她抬起头时，他正弯腰从地板上捡起什么东西，当他直起身来时，她看到那是她的短裤，她感到羞愧。他把它们拿出来，用一根手指晃来晃去，赫敏立刻抓住它们，用拳头把它们揉成一团。

A small smile was playing about his lips and Hermione knew that meant she was visibly blushing. Could he blame her? She’d never done anything like that. Never had she let herself get so caught up in a moment that she ignored that voice. Never had she had sex with a man like him. Never had she had sex outside of a bed . This felt like the kind of thing Ginny would tell her single 26-year-olds were supposed to be doing. Well, she would as long as she didn’t know it was Lucius Malfoy that Hermione was doing it with. 
他的嘴唇上浮现出一丝微笑，赫敏知道这意味着她明显脸红了。他能责怪她吗？她从来没有做过这样的事情。她从来没有让自己陷入如此沉迷的时刻，以至于她忽略了那个声音。她从来没有和他这样的男人发生过性关系。她从来没有在床外做爱。这感觉就像是金妮会告诉她 26 岁的单身女孩应该做的事情。好吧，只要她不知道赫敏正在和卢修斯·马尔福一起做这件事。

The phrase ‘ I fucked Lucius Malfoy ’ began doing the rounds in her head with the rhythm of a horse trotting around a field.
“我操了卢修斯·马尔福”这句话开始在她的脑海中以马在田野上小跑的节奏旋转。

“So,” he began, approaching her again. Hermione held her breath and dropped her gaze, not even looking up when he placed his hands on her hips. “You like to be spoken to.”
“所以，”他开始说，再次靠近她。赫敏屏住呼吸，垂下目光，当他把手放在她的臀部上时，她甚至没有抬头。“你喜欢被人说话。”

Drawing on every ounce of courage she possessed, Hermione looked up into his grey eyes and, to her relief, found no judgement or cruel laughter there. Just sincere interest and—she gulped— warmth . 
赫敏鼓起勇气，抬头看着他那双灰色的眼睛，令她松了一口气的是，她发现那里没有评判或残忍的笑声。只有真诚的兴趣和——她大口大口地喝着——温暖。

“You realise, of course, that this puts a slightly perverted slant on your project,” he added, a teasing lilt to his voice.
“你当然会意识到，这会给你的项目带来一点的倾向，”他补充道，声音中带着一丝戏谑。

A laugh that ended up veering close to an embarrassed sob escaped Hermione. “Shut up,” she said, closing her eyes and tipping her head back to draw in a calming breath. “I didn’t know I did. I just… sometimes I need to be kept in the moment. Mentally.”
赫敏的笑声几乎变成了尴尬的啜泣。“闭嘴，”她说，闭上眼睛，把头向后仰，深吸一口气。“我不知道我这样做了。我只是。。。有时我需要被关在当下。在精神上。

A look of understanding crept over his face, as though she’d answered a question he hadn’t yet had the chance to ask. “I thought it might be something like that.”
他的脸上浮现出理解的神情，仿佛她已经回答了一个他还没来得及问的问题。“我以为可能是这样。”

“You did?” 
“你有？”

“You were growing somewhat frustrated, shall we say,” he said like a man who was choosing his words carefully, his thumbs beginning to stroke soothing circles on her hips through her dress. “It felt like something worth trying. I realise I was trying to upset you in the greenhouse a couple of weeks ago but my observations were genuine – it's obviously very busy in that head of yours."
“容我们说，你有点沮丧了，”他说，就像一个小心翼翼地选择措辞的男人，他的拇指开始隔着她的裙子在她的臀部上抚摸着舒缓的圆圈。“感觉值得一试。我意识到几周前我在温室里想让你不高兴，但我的观察是真实的——显然你的脑袋里很忙。

Hermione stared at him, the idea that he had been actively intent on bringing her pleasure not quite connecting with her understanding of the world, or her understanding of him. Certainly not with her understanding of them together.
赫敏盯着他，他一直积极地想给她带来快乐，这与她对世界的理解或她对他的理解并不完全相关。当然不是她对它们的理解。

“I wonder what else you don't know you like,” he said, squeezing her gently.
“我想知道你还不喜欢什么，”他说，轻轻地挤压她。

Hermione’s face grew warm at the implication he wanted to find out. At the same time, though, she wasn’t going to say no outright. What they’d just done shocked her, certainly, but she couldn’t get away from the fact that she’d enjoyed it. Quite a lot. 
赫敏的脸因为他想弄清楚的含义而变得温暖起来。但与此同时，她也不打算直接说不。他们刚才的所作所为当然让她感到震惊，但她无法摆脱她很享受的事实。相当多。

It would, she reflected ruefully, have been easier and simpler if she hadn't. Was it really too much to ask that the most selfish man she'd ever met in her life be the most selfish lover she'd ever had? Could she not even have that convenience? 
她悲哀地想，如果她没有这样做，事情会变得更容易、更简单。要求她这辈子遇到的最自私的男人是她曾经有过的最自私的情人，这真的太过分了吗？她甚至没有这种便利吗？

“Me too,” Hermione said honestly, her voice quiet as he brought his face closer to hers.
“我也是，”赫敏诚实地说，当他把脸凑近她的脸时，她的声音很平静。

"Was I right about the archives, by the way?" he asked, his lips just inches from hers. 
“顺便说一句，我对档案的看法是对的吗？”他问道，他的嘴唇离她的嘴唇只有几英寸。

Hermione narrowed her eyes, the butterflies in her stomach turning to stone and dropping hard. "No, you bloody well were not."
赫敏眯起眼睛，她肚子里的蝴蝶变成了石头，重重地落下。“不，你不是。”

"Pity," he said, before closing the gap between them to kiss her firmly.
“可惜，”他说，然后拉近了他们之间的距离，用力地吻了她。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Um. Yah. Heh.
嗯。是的。嘿。

Chapter 25
第二十五章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius face the awkward music in the aftermath
赫敏和卢修斯在事后面对尴尬的音乐

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Oh hello! Sorry this chapter is coming a little later than usual. I am *drum roll* moving house! And it's awful. I hate moving with a passion. It does mean there'll be a little period where my updates are knocked off schedule but fear not I'm still writing - slowly- around the chaos.
哦，你好！抱歉，本章比平时晚了一点。我正在*鼓声*搬家！这太糟糕了。我讨厌带着激情搬家。这确实意味着会有一段时间我的更新被打乱，但不要担心，我仍在慢慢地围绕混乱进行写作。

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾Hermione clutched at the porcelain sink of what she knew to be one of many Malfoy Manor bathrooms and stared at herself in the absurdly large, ornate mirror. Mussed hair, swollen lips, flushed cheeks and somewhat guilty eyes stared back at her. 
赫敏紧紧抓住她知道是马尔福庄园众多浴室之一的瓷水槽，盯着那面大得离谱、华丽的镜子里的自己。乱糟糟的头发，肿胀的嘴唇，泛红的脸颊和有些内疚的眼睛回头盯着她。

Clearing her throat and relinquishing the sink with a hesitancy that spoke to her doubt over her ability to keep herself standing, Hermione lifted her knickers from where she’d left them on the marble counter and bent over to step into them. Wrinkling her nose as the now-cold wetness made contact with her skin, she reached for her wand and tapped first the knickers, then her dress. A fresh gust fixed her clothing and Hermione let out a satisfied sigh, her shoulders dropping infinitesimally in response to the comfort of clean dryness.
赫敏清了清嗓子，犹豫地放下了水槽，这表明她对自己是否有能力保持站立的怀疑，赫敏从她留在大理石柜台上的地方拿起她的短裤，弯下腰走进去。当现在冰冷的湿漉漉接触到她的皮肤时，她皱起了鼻子，伸手拿起魔杖，先敲了敲短裤，然后敲了敲她的裙子。一阵清新的风吹来，赫敏满意地叹了口气，她的肩膀无限地垂下，以回应干净干燥的舒适。

Lucius had suggested she take a moment to fix herself and she had seized upon it, leaping from his desk with her underwear still clutched in her fist as she’d bolted around him for the door. A worm of guilt wriggled in Hermione’s stomach – she hadn’t even spared him a glance. 
卢修斯建议她花点时间整理一下自己，她抓住了这个机会，从他的桌子上跳下来，手里还攥着内裤，搂着他冲向门口。一股罪恶感在赫敏的肚子里蠕动着——她甚至没有看他一眼。

Raising a hand to pointlessly pat at her hair, she huffed out a sigh and fixed her wide-eyed reflection with a stern look. “You enjoyed it,” she said firmly, her voice echoing in the cavernous bathroom. “There’s no point in pretending that you didn’t.”
她抬起一只手毫无意义地拍了拍她的头发，叹了口气，用严厉的眼神注视着她睁大眼睛的倒影。“你喜欢它，”她坚定地说，她的声音在洞穴般的浴室里回荡。“假装你没有这样做是没有意义的。”

Hermione watched her stern expression melt, the outer arches of her eyebrows drooping into worry. “I enjoyed it. I really did."
赫敏看着她严厉的表情融化，她的眉毛外侧弯起，担忧地垂下。“我喜欢它。我真的做到了。

“Dear me, how exciting.” Hermione yelped at the sound of the clipped, seemingly female voice, leaping back from the sink. “It’s been some time since we’ve had a crisis in this bathroom. Anything I can help with?”
“亲爱的我，多么令人兴奋。”赫敏听到那个似乎是女性的声音大喊大叫，从水槽里跳了回来。“我们已经有一段时间没有在这个浴室里遇到危机了。有什么我可以帮忙的吗？

Hermione turned on the spot, searching for the source of the voice, until she had turned 360 degrees and was back to where she’d started – staring at her wide-eyed, panicked reflection. 
赫敏当场转过身来，寻找声音的来源，直到她转了360度，回到了她开始的地方——盯着她睁大眼睛、惊慌失措的倒影。

The mirror. The mirror was speaking. 
镜子。镜子在说话。

“You can speak ?” Hermione asked, disbelieving. She stepped forwards again, leaning over the sink to inspect the flat, reflective surface of the mirror as though she might somehow be able to see through it or identify its magic through sight alone. “How long have you been able to do that?”
“你会说话吗？”赫敏不敢相信地问。她再次向前迈步，俯身在水槽上检查镜子平坦、反光的表面，彷佛她或许能以某种方式看穿它，或者仅凭视觉就能识别出它的魔力。“你能做到这一点多久了？”

“Oh, as long as I can remember,” the mirror said conversationally. “Though time isn’t really as much of a thing to a mirror as it is to a human, dear. Quite insensitive of you to bring it up, really – I don’t especially like to linger on my age.”
“哦，只要我还记事就好，”镜子对话般地说。“虽然时间对镜子来说并不像对人类来说那么重要，亲爱的。你提起这件事真是太不敏感了——我不是特别喜欢在我的年龄上逗留。

Stumped, Hermione straightened up to take in the room around her, eyes sweeping over the large free-standing bath and the toilet directly across the room.
赫敏被难住了，直起身来，看着周围的房间，眼睛扫过房间对面的大型独立浴缸和马桶。

“Can you see me?” she finally asked, turning back to the mirror.
“你能看到我吗？”她终于问道，转身看向镜子。

“Quite as well as you can see yourself, I should think. Perhaps better, actually.”
“我想，就你自己能看到的一样好。实际上，也许更好。

Hermione eyed the toilet again over her shoulder nervously, then looked back at the mirror. “But I’ve been…been using the toilet in here. For months.”
赫敏又紧张地回头看了看马桶，然后回头看了看镜子。“但我一直......一直在这里的厕所。几个月。

“Oh pshaw, dear, your habits are no more unusual than anyone else’s. Nowhere near enough for me to actually pay attention. I’m here to offer assurances and recommendations on appearance. And nothing else, as I’ve been repeatedly reminded over the years,” it added resentfully.
“噢，噢，亲爱的，你的习惯并不比别人更不寻常。远不足以让我真正注意。我在这里提供关于外观的保证和建议。没有别的了，这些年来我一直被提醒着，“它愤恨地补充道。

“Well, why have you never offered assurances any other time I’ve been in here?”
“嗯，为什么我来过这里的时候，你从来没有保证过呢？”

“You never asked,” the mirror responded primly, making Hermione tut impatiently, rolling her eyes.
“你从来没问过，”镜子严肃地回答，让赫敏不耐烦地啧啧称奇，翻了个白眼。

“Alright, then” Hermione said, pulling at her fringe to fix it again. “Well, how do I look?”
“好吧，那么，”赫敏说，拉着她的刘海，把它重新固定好。“嗯，我看起来怎么样？”

“Rather more dishevelled than usual,” said the mirror and, to Hermione’s disbelief, she thought she heard a cheeky undertone to it. “Is that the result of the thing you enjoyed by any chance?”
“比平时更蓬头垢面了，”镜子说，令赫敏难以置信的是，她觉得她听到了一种厚颜无耻的意味。“那是你偶然喜欢的事情的结果吗？”

“No!” Hermione said, her raised voice echoing again. 
“不！”赫敏说，她提高的声音再次回荡。

A quiet harumph spoke to the mirror’s irritation. “Well, really, there’s no need to shout. A mirror can’t help you if you’re not even going to be honest with it.”
一声轻声的嘶吼对镜子的恼怒说了出来。“嗯，真的，没必要大喊大叫。如果你甚至不打算诚实地对待它，镜子就帮不了你。

“I don’t need your help,” Hermione said firmly. “I’m fine.”
“我不需要你的帮助，”赫敏坚定地说。“我没事。”

“I can honestly say that in all the years I have spent in this bathroom, there has never been one instance in which someone was gripping the sink and talking to themselves that they were also fine .”
“老实说，在我在这个浴室度过的这些年里，从来没有一个人抓着水槽自言自语说他们也没事。”

Warmth fired up Hermione’s neck and into her cheeks. “However,” the mirror continued, sounding increasingly bored. “If you are unwilling to explore your inner-thoughts and troubles with me then I will simply tell you that you look very pretty, dear. Quite invigorated.”
温暖从赫敏的脖子上涌上来，一直吹到她的脸颊上。“不过，”镜子继续说道，听起来越来越无聊。“如果你不愿意和我一起探索你内心的想法和烦恼，那我就告诉你，你看起来非常漂亮，亲爱的。相当有活力。

“Thank you,” Hermione said quietly, mortified. 
“谢谢你，”赫敏轻声说，感到羞愧。

“Oh, you’re quite welcome.” Hermione nodded and lifted her wand, turning towards the door when the mirror spoke again. “If you do ever need some assistance with your self-reflection please don’t hesitate to return. This job gets very dull, you know, and there are only so many ways to tell people that they never look quite as bad as they fear. I’ve always wanted a below the surface project.”
“哦，不客气。”赫敏点点头，举起魔杖，当镜子再次说话时，她转向门口。“如果你在自我反省方面确实需要一些帮助，请不要犹豫，立即返回。你知道，这份工作会变得非常乏味，而且只有这么多方法可以告诉人们，他们看起来永远不会像他们担心的那么糟糕。我一直想要一个地下项目。

Glancing back at the mirror, Hermione gave another slow nod. “Er, yes,” she added a verbal confirmation, not quite sure how wide the mirror’s view of the room actually was. “Yes, I will.” 
赫敏回头看了一眼镜子，又缓缓地点了点头。“呃，是的，”她口头确认道，不太确定镜子里房间的视野到底有多宽。“是的，我会的。”

Opening the door, Hermione stepped back into the hall and closed it behind her. With a bewildered shake of her head, she let her feet carry her back along the hall while her mind pondered the exact mix of spells that went into making such a mirror. Really, it was quite an impressive feat of transfiguration.
打开门，赫敏走回走廊，在她身后关上了门。她困惑地摇了摇头，让双脚带着她沿着走廊往回走，同时她的脑海中思考着制作这样一面镜子的确切咒语组合。真的，这是一个相当令人印象深刻的变形壮举。

“Did you know that your bathroom mirror can speak?”
“你知道你的浴室镜子会说话吗？”

Lucius, standing before the fire with his hands clasped behind his back, turned on the spot to look at her over the sofa. He blinked once, twice, slowly, as though surprised to see her. 
卢修斯站在火堆前，双手紧握在背后，当场转过身来，隔着沙发看着她。他眨了眨眼，眨了眨眼，慢慢地，仿佛看到她就很惊讶。

“You came back.”
“你回来了。”

“I have been using that bathroom for months,” Hermione said, closing the door to his study, all the while oblivious to his hands dropping to his sides as he watched her with another slow blink. “And I never knew that the mirror could speak, let alone see what I was doing. Why didn’t you tell me?”
“我已经用那个浴室好几个月了，”赫敏说，关上了书房的门，同时忘记了他的手垂到身体两侧，又慢慢地眨了眨眼。“我从来不知道镜子会说话，更不用说看到我在做什么了。你为什么不告诉我？

“You never asked.”
“你从来没有问过。”

Hermione stopped and stared at him before huffing incredulously. “That’s what it said. Why would I ask ? I mean, it’s not such a common thing if you a –”
赫敏停下脚步，盯着他看，然后难以置信地喘着粗气。“它是这么说的。我为什么要问 ？我是说，如果你是——”

“I didn’t expect you to come back.”
“没想到你会回来。”

Mouth still open, Hermione closed it slowly and took him in properly, silhouetted against the fire. The buttons on his shirt that she’d managed to undo were still open and he was frowning at her in the way that he always did when she defied his expectations. Cold dread began to seep into her veins and her hands curled gently, guiding her body into a defensive stance.
赫敏的嘴巴仍然张着，慢慢地闭上，好好地把他带进去，在火堆的映衬下剪影。她设法解开的他衬衫上的纽扣仍然敞开着，他皱着眉头看着她，就像她违背他的期望时他总是做的那样。冰冷的恐惧开始渗入她的血管，她的双手轻轻蜷缩，引导她的身体摆出防御姿态。

“You didn’t want me to come back, you mean?” she asked, chin raised.
“你是说，你不想让我回来吗？”

“I didn’t say that,” he said, a snap of impatience in his tone. “I said I didn’t expect it.”
“我没说过，”他说，语气中带着一丝不耐烦。“我说我没想到。”

“Well…” Hermione frowned, the proud jut of her chin lowering. “Why?”
“嗯......”赫敏皱起眉头，骄傲的下巴低了下来。“为什么？”

“You left in quite a hurry. I thought, perhaps, I had misread…if you have regrets –”
“你走得真匆忙。我想，也许，我看错了......如果你有遗憾——”

Hermione shifted guilty. She had actually considered simply returning home, in large part because she didn’t know what one did after they had been fucked on a person’s desk. Shaking hands and saying ‘well, thanks for a lovely time’ didn’t seem right. But nor did just…hanging around seem appropriate. Escaping to the bathroom had been like taking a chance to breathe after being submerged underwater.
赫敏转而表示内疚。她实际上考虑过简单地回家，很大程度上是因为她不知道一个人在一个人的桌子上被操后会做什么。握手说“嗯，谢谢你度过了美好的时光”似乎不太对劲。但 just 也没有......闲逛似乎很合适。逃到洗手间就像是被淹没在水下后抓住机会呼吸一样。

It just so happened that while she was lost in thought about the mirror, her feet had carried her back to his door and it had felt natural to come back in and ask him about it. It had felt natural to return to his private space and be in it with him. Hermione swallowed, her eyes dropping to the sofa which felt like far too large a gulf between them. 
碰巧的是，当她沉浸在对镜子的思考中时，她的脚已经把她带回了他的门口，很自然地回到了屋里问他这件事。回到他的私人空间，和他在一起感觉很自然。赫敏咽了口口水，她的眼睛落在沙发上，感觉他们之间的鸿沟太大了。

“You didn’t misread it,” she said, eyes flicking up to his. She forced her voice to stay steady as she added, “I don’t regret it.”
“你没看错，”她说，眼睛眨了眨他的眼睛。她强迫自己的声音保持稳定，同时补充道，“我不后悔。

Lucius held her gaze from across the room, his face inscrutable. “Do you ?” Hermione asked, slightly exasperated and exhausted by the continual feeling that she was being exposed in front of him. Good lord, she needed something.
卢修斯从房间的另一头凝视着她，他的脸色高深莫测。“是吗？”赫敏问道，她一直觉得自己在他面前暴露了，这让她略显恼火和疲惫。天哪，她需要点什么。

“No,” he responded quickly. 
“不，”他很快回答。

“Well then,” Hermione said, throwing her hands out and feeling utterly pointless. “Good.”
“好吧，”赫敏说，伸出双手，感觉完全没有意义。“很好。”

“I realised in your absence that I’m not sure what the appropriate etiquette is for the aftermath of such a specific event,” he said, more stiff than she’d heard him sound in weeks.
“我意识到，在你不在的时候，我不确定在这样一个特定事件之后应该有什么适当的礼仪，”他说，比她几周来听到他的声音还要僵硬。

There was a moment in which Hermione simply stared at him, seeing a flash of the mannered aristocrat he’d been raised to be while realising that their concerns had been oddly similar. Then, overwhelmed by the ridiculousness of it all, she giggled and, at the sight of his deepening frown, she giggled harder.
有那么一刻，赫敏只是盯着他看，看到了他被抚养长大的彬彬有礼的贵族的一闪而过，同时意识到他们的担忧竟然奇怪地相似。然后，她被这一切的荒谬所淹没，咯咯地笑了起来，看到他越来越深的眉头，她咯咯地笑得更厉害了。

“I’m sorry,” she said, raising a hand to cover her mouth. “I just…I don’t think there is any etiquette for…that. I thought you seemed very comfortable, actually.”
“对不起，”她说，抬起一只手捂住了她的嘴。“我只是......我不认为有任何礼仪......那。实际上，我觉得你看起来很舒服。

His shoulders dropped and his frown shallowed as he rubbed the side of his forefinger across it. “Well, when you ran off I began to doubt…”
他的肩膀垂下，皱起了眉头，用食指的侧面摩擦着。“嗯，你跑掉后，我开始怀疑......”

“No,” Hermione said, stepping towards the sofa to put her hand on the smooth leather of its back as an alternative to reaching for him. “I had similar concerns.” She shook her head. “I wasn’t sure what I ought to –” Hermione broke off and looked at him appealingly. “This is your space. I don’t think I should be the one to decide whether I stay in it.”
“不，”赫敏说，走向沙发，把手放在沙发背面光滑的皮革上，作为伸手去抓他的替代。“我也有类似的担忧。”她摇了摇头。“我不确定我应该做什么——”赫敏打断了他，诱人地看着他。“这是你的空间。我认为我不应该是决定是否留在其中的人。

At her words, something in his expression slackened and there was a subtle rise in his chest as he took in a breath. “Sit,” he said, gesturing to the sofa. Eyebrows raised, Hermione tilted her head questioningly. “I realise I can either submit to your interrogation about the manor’s enchanted mirrors tonight or at a later point in the week,” he explained. “And I am feeling rather more indulgent towards you now so I recommend that you press your advantage.”
听到她的话，他表情中的某个东西放松了下来，当他吸了一口气时，他的胸口微微起伏。“坐下，”他说，指着沙发。赫敏扬起眉毛，疑惑地歪着头。“我知道我要么在今晚接受你关于庄园魔法镜的审讯，要么在本周晚些时候接受你的审讯，”他解释道。“而且我现在对你感觉更宽容了，所以我建议你利用自己的优势。”

Their eyes met and an understanding passed between them. He didn’t want her to go if she didn’t want to go. At that realisation, Hermione felt a surreal kind of calm pass through her. She didn’t regret what had happened and he wasn’t going to make her regret it. She rather thought she ought to return that comfort.
他们的目光相遇，他们之间传递着一种理解。如果她不想走，他就不想让她走。在意识到这一点时，赫敏感到一种超现实的平静在她身上掠过。她不后悔所发生的事情，他也不打算让她后悔。她宁愿认为她应该回报这种安慰。

A grin creeped its way onto Hermione’s face and, before he could change his mind, she scurried around the sofa and dropped herself onto one of the soft cushions. “I have quite a lot of questions, actually,” she said, making herself comfortable and smoothing the hem of her dress. “The first one being, of course, how many are there?”
赫敏的脸上露出了一丝笑容，在他改变主意之前，她匆匆忙忙地绕过沙发，把自己放在一个柔软的靠垫上。“实际上，我有很多问题，”她说，让自己舒服一点，抚平裙子的下摆。“第一个当然是，有多少？”

Hermione looked up to find him still standing in front of her, looking down at her on his sofa. There was an odd, thoughtful expression on his face and she reached out to place her hand in his. Tugging at it, she pulled him closer and nodded down at the cushion. With a sigh that was almost certainly exaggerated, he turned and lowered himself onto the sofa beside her. A small tremor went through Hermione as the heat of him was once again pressed alongside her.
赫敏抬起头，发现他还站在她面前，俯视着沙发上的她。他的脸上露出一种奇怪的、若有所思的表情，她伸出手来把她的手放在他的手里。她拉扯着它，把他拉近，对着垫子点了点头。他叹了一口气，几乎可以肯定是夸张的，然后转身，把自己放低到她旁边的沙发上。赫敏全身一阵轻微的颤抖，因为他的热度再次被压在她身边。

“The mirrors can be found in several bedrooms and bathrooms in the manor and the bedroom ones are a good deal more irksome,” he said. “Appallingly overfamiliar, if you ask me.”
“庄园的几间卧室和浴室都可以找到镜子，而卧室的镜子要烦人得多，”他说。“如果你问我的话，太熟悉了。”

July 7th
7 月 7 日

 

The bright morning sun forced its way through the gap in Hermione’s bedroom curtains to shine aggressively on her face. Uttering a groggy moan, she shuffled onto her other side so that her back was to the window and batted uselessly at her face. 
灿烂的晨晖阳光从赫敏卧室窗帘的缝隙中射进来，咄咄逼人地照在她的脸上。她发出一声昏昏沉沉的呻吟，拖着脚走到另一边，背对着窗户，徒劳地拍打着她的脸。

After a few more stubborn moments of keeping her eyes squeezed closed in an attempt to get back to sleep, Hermione gave up and, sighing, stretched her lingering tiredness out of her body. 
又顽强地闭上眼睛试图重新入睡一会儿后，赫敏放弃了，叹了口气，将她挥之不去的疲惫从体内伸了出来。

It had been a late night. Or an early morning. Suffice it to say that while she wasn’t entirely sure what time it was, she likely hadn’t had as much sleep as she needed. Tucking half of her face into the softness of her pillow and curling her legs up towards her chest, Hermione stared at the strip of sun shining on her white wall, her mind on the not-unpleasant ache between her thighs. 
那是一个很晚的夜晚。或者一个清晨。可以说，虽然她不完全确定现在几点了，但她可能没有得到她需要的睡眠。赫敏把半张脸埋进柔软的枕头里，把双腿蜷缩到胸前，盯着照在她白色墙壁上的阳光，她的心思放在大腿之间并不难受的疼痛上。

The flat was still and quiet, as was the street outside, with the exception of a bird twittering in a tree somewhere. Hopefully that meant she hadn’t slept too late—she’d agreed the previous week to meet Neville at Hogwarts for another jaunt around the greenhouses and she had no intention of missing it. Especially not if her only truthful excuse was ‘sorry, Neville, overslept after spending most of the night with Lucius Malfoy. No, don’t worry, we only shagged once.’
公寓寂静无声，外面的街道也一样，除了一只鸟在某处的树上叽叽喳喳。希望这意味着她没有睡得太晚——她上周已经约定在霍格沃茨和纳威见面，再去温室里闲逛，她不想错过这个机会。尤其是如果她唯一真实的借口是“对不起，纳威，在和卢修斯·马尔福度过了大半夜之后睡过头了。不，别担心，我们只打过一次。

Snorting out a soft laugh, Hermione burrowed her face further into her pillow and closed her eyes. She was trying extremely hard not to beat herself up about it. They’d done it and she’d enjoyed it. 
赫敏轻声笑了起来，把脸进一步钻进枕头里，闭上了眼睛。她非常努力地不为此自责。他们做到了，她很享受。

Not only that, she’d enjoyed the rest of the night too. After he’d talked her through the various mirrors of the manor, detailing the ones he thought she really ought to avoid while vowing to show her the books containing the theory of their magic, they’d simply continued to talk. Mostly about nothing. Inane things; the books she’d read during her week off, the plants he was growing for Draco, food, magic. It had been oddly easy but, then, they’d practised talking with the most difficult topics first, so was it really so surprising that when they finally moved onto things they enjoyed it felt relatively frictionless? 
不仅如此，她还享受了这个夜晚的剩余时间。在他通过庄园的各种镜子与她交谈，详细说明了他认为她真正应该避免的那些镜子，同时发誓要给她看包含他们魔法理论的书之后，他们只是继续交谈。基本上什么都没有。无聊的东西;她在休息一周里读的书，他为德拉科种的植物，食物，魔法。这本来很容易，但是，他们先练习了谈论最困难的话题，所以当他们最终转向他们喜欢的事情时，感觉相对来说没有摩擦，这真的是不是很令人惊讶？

They even had things in common; he had no patience for divination—though she rather suspected that after his disapproval of the prophecy—and shared her appreciation for Arithmancy; he agreed that white wine was more enjoyable in the heat of the summer but assured her that the only reason she didn’t like Riesling was because she’d been given all the wrong ones, something he was more than happy to fix; and when he’d risen to take some of the books he tended to return to from his personal shelves, they’d both been pleased to find she’d already read most of them. He’d offered to let her spend time in his study to read the others.
他们甚至有一些共同点;他对占卜没有耐心——尽管在他不赞成这个预言之后，她宁愿怀疑这一点——并分享了她对算术的欣赏;他同意白葡萄酒在炎热的夏天更令人愉快，但向她保证，她不喜欢雷司令的唯一原因是她得到了所有错误的雷司令，他非常乐意解决这个问题;当他起身从个人书架上拿起一些他经常回头的书时，他们都很高兴地发现她已经读完了其中的大部分。他提议让她花时间在他的书房里读其他的。

The only reason she’d decided to leave was because she’d found her eyelids drooping against her wishes. As far as she’d been able to tell, Lucius hadn’t been tired at all but, then, she supposed he was very used to keeping unusual hours. She found herself wondering when he actually did sleep and how much of it he tended to get. Would she ever be lying beside him when he did it?
她决定离开的唯一原因是她发现自己的眼睑违背了她的意愿而下垂。据她所知，卢修斯一点也不累，但是，她认为他已经非常习惯了保持不寻常的时间。她发现自己在想他什么时候真的睡着了，他往往会睡多少。当他这样做时，她会躺在他身边吗？

He hadn’t objected when she’d declared her intention to return to her own bed. He hadn’t offered his or another at the manor either and Hermione had actually been glad of that. He’d simply let her go, with a murmured acknowledgement that he’d see her again soon. 
当她宣布打算回到自己的床上时，他并没有反对。他也没有在庄园里提出过他或那个，赫敏实际上很高兴。他只是放开了她，喃喃地承认他很快就会再见到她。

Rolling over, Hermione grabbed her watch from her bedside table and peered at it. 10am and she was meeting Neville at 11. Perfect. Swinging her legs over the side of her bed, she groaned at the ache in her limbs. Glancing down at her bare legs, she saw faint marks on her thighs and, pulling up her t-shirt, her hips. Exhaling shakily, she placed her fingertips against them, imagining they were Malfoy’s. It was going to be hard to keep a clear head.
赫敏翻了个身，从床头柜上拿起她的手表，凝视着它。上午 10 点，她在 11 点与 Neville 见面。完善。她把双腿摆动到床边，四肢的疼痛让她呻吟起来。她低头瞥了一眼她光秃秃的双腿，看到她的大腿上有淡淡的痕迹，拉起她的 T 恤，她的臀部。她颤抖地呼出一口气，将指尖贴在他们身上，想象着他们是马尔福的。要保持清醒的头脑会很困难。

Bending at the waist, Hermione inspected the velvety leaves of Neville’s many dittany plants. She hadn’t spotted any of those in the Malfoy greenhouse. As a plant with healing properties, it would surely be useful to Draco for his potions. On top of that, the idea of presenting Lucius Malfoy with a healing plant that he would have to care for and nurture made a sly smile creep over Hermione’s face. It was so easy to imagine his lip curling before he unleashed some snide comment about sentimentality or a lack of subtlety. 
赫敏弯下腰，检查着纳威的许多白叶植物的天鹅绒般的叶子。她还没在马尔福的温室里看到任何那些东西。作为一种具有治疗特性的植物，它肯定对德拉科的魔药有用。最重要的是，向卢修斯·马尔福赠送一株他必须照顾和培育的治疗植物的想法让赫敏的脸上露出了狡猾的笑容。很容易想象他弯起嘴唇，然后才说出一些关于多愁善感或缺乏微妙的讥讽评论。

“Neville,” Hermione asked, turning her head to look over her shoulder, “is there any chance I could take a cutting of this dittany?”
“纳威，”赫敏问道，转头看向她的肩膀，“我有机会把这个小东西剪下来吗？

“You’re growing?” Neville asked, his voice brimming with enthusiasm as he marched across the room to join her, watering can in hand.
“你在长大吗？”纳威问道，他的声音充满了热情，手里拿着喷壶，穿过房间加入她。

“I’m not,” Hermione said, hesitating. “It’s…er, well, it’d be for the Malfoys. Draco is making potions for St. Mungo’s and his father is growing ingredients in their greenhouse.”
“我不是，”赫敏犹豫着说。“这......呃，嗯，那会是给马尔福家的。德拉科正在为圣芒戈制作药水，他的父亲在他们的温室里种植配料。

“Lucius Malfoy is running a greenhouse?” Neville asked blankly. 
“卢修斯·马尔福在经营一个温室？”纳威茫然地问。

“Well, it’s relatively small. Not as impressive as the Hogwarts greenhouses, that's for sure, but bigger than you’d expect to find in someone’s back garden, if that makes sense.”
“嗯，它相对较小。肯定没有霍格沃茨的温室那么令人印象深刻，但比你想象的在别人的后花园里找到的要大，如果这有意义的话。

“No,” Neville shook his head. “It’s just…I guess I’m surprised that he has the disposition for it, that’s all.”
“不，”纳威摇摇头。“只是......我想我很惊讶他有这样的性格，仅此而已。

Tilting her head, Hermione considered Lucius’ disposition in the context of gardening. He didn’t really strike her as the most natural gardener now that she thought about it. After all, he wore what appeared to be fairly expensive clothes while doing it and he wasn’t exactly a nurturing presence – more of a frost. “I reckon it’s probably touch and go sometimes, to be honest,” Hermione said thoughtfully, “but he seems pretty committed to it. Has an apron and everything.”
赫敏歪着头，思考着卢修斯在园艺方面的性格。现在她想想，他并没有真的觉得她是最自然的园丁。毕竟，他在做这件事时穿着看起来相当昂贵的衣服，而且他并不完全是一个有教养的存在——更像是一个冰霜。“老实说，我估计有时可能是一碰就走，”赫敏若有所思地说，“但他似乎很投入。有围裙和一切。

Neville eyed his dittany with loving concern and glanced up at Hermione. “I suppose I could give you a cutting,” he said, sounding less than certain. “I have some seeds, too, but he’ll need to wait until next spring before planting them.”
纳威用慈爱的眼神看着他的小家伙，抬头看了赫敏一眼。“我想我可以给你剪个剪子，”他说，听起来不太确定。“我也有一些种子，但他需要等到明年春天才能播种。”

“Oh, Neville, that’s so kind of you,” Hermione replied, rising onto the balls of her feet with a smile. 
“哦，纳威，你真是太好了，”赫敏回答，微笑着站起脚掌。

“It’s your kindness,” he assured her. “I’m just facilitating it.” Neville’s face grew troubled as he gazed down at the dittany and back up at Hermione, seemingly internally debating over just how willing he was to part with it for someone like Lucius Malfoy. Sighing through his nose, Neville lifted one shoulder. “It’s kind of hard to do wrong with dittany isn’t it? “
“这是你的好意，”他向她保证。“我只是在促进它。”纳威的脸色变得不安起来，他低头看了看那件小事，又抬头看向赫敏，似乎在心里争论他到底有多愿意为了卢修斯·马尔福这样的人而放弃它。纳威从鼻子里叹了口气，抬起了一侧的肩膀。“用 dittany 做错事有点困难，不是吗？”

Rather than ruin the moment and tell Neville that if anyone could find a way it’d be Lucius Malfoy, Hermione decided to assure him that it’d probably find its way into Draco’s potions and that those definitely were doing good. Setting his watering can down and removing his wand from his pocket, Neville jerked his head at a workbench. 
赫敏没有毁掉这一刻，告诉纳威，如果有人能找到办法，那就是卢修斯·马尔福，而是决定向他保证，它可能会进入德拉科的魔药中，而且那些药剂肯定是好的。放下喷壶，从口袋里掏出魔杖，纳威猛地把头撞向工作台。

“Put some compost in one of those smaller pots. I can take a basal cutting.” 
“在其中一个较小的罐子里放一些堆肥。我可以进行基部切割。

When Hermione had done as Neville asked, she returned to find he’d made a clean cut at the base of the plant. Placing it towards the edge of the pot, he began to pat fresh compost down around it to keep it in place. With a thoughtful frown, Neville picked up his wand again and murmured a couple of spells, making swirling motions over the plant. 
当赫敏按照纳威的要求做了时，她回来发现他在植物的底部做了一个干净的切口。他把它放在花盆的边缘，开始在它周围拍打新鲜的堆肥，以保持它的位置。纳威若有所思地皱起眉头，再次拿起魔杖，喃喃自语了几个咒语，在植物上做出了旋转的动作。

“What are you doing?” Hermione asked, truly interested as an iridescent border formed around the pot and plant.
“你在干什么？”赫敏问道，对花盆和植物周围形成的彩虹色边界感到非常感兴趣。

“We need to keep it kind of moist until you can get it to his greenhouse. That should do it but it’ll only last for a couple of days so try not to hang about.”
“我们需要保持湿润，直到你能把它送到他的温室里。这应该可以，但它只会持续几天，所以尽量不要闲逛。

Hermione nodded fervently, keen to show Neville that she was taking the responsibility seriously. It was rare he was so authoritative and Hermione knew that meant she should listen. He cast a last longing look at the dittany before glancing up at her. 
赫敏热切地点点头，热衷于向纳威表明她正在认真对待这个责任。他很少这么权威，赫敏知道这意味着她应该听。他最后渴望地看了一眼那只小鸡巴，然后抬头看了她一眼。

“I have some books I think he should have as well; they have tips specific to caring for magical herbs for potions. I’ll dig them out when we go up for tea.”
“我有一些书，我想他也应该有;他们有专门照顾药水魔法草药的提示。我们上去喝茶的时候，我会把它们挖出来。

“Oh…er,” Hermione smiled hesitantly, not entirely sure how Lucius would react to receiving instructional books from Neville. Probably not all that well. “That’s nice, thanks Neville.”
“哦......呃，“赫敏犹豫地笑了笑，不完全确定卢修斯收到纳威的指导书会有什么反应。可能不是那么好。“太好了，谢谢纳威。”

“It’s for the plants,” he said firmly. “I want to be sure he’s taking care of them.”
“这是给植物的，”他坚定地说。“我想确保他正在照顾他们。”

“Of course.”
“当然。”

Neville eyed Hermione quietly for a moment. “You said he has an apron,” he said, a small frown pulling his brows together. “For the greenhouse?”
纳威静静地盯着赫敏看了一会儿。“你说他有围裙，”他说，微微皱起眉头。“为了温室？”

“Yes,” Hermione replied, not entirely sure where he might be going with such a question.
“是的，”赫敏回答，不完全确定他会问这样的问题去哪里。

“You actually saw it?”
“你真的看到了？”

“The greenhouse…?”
“温室......？”

“No, the apron.”
“不，围裙。”

“Yes,” Hermione said, even more confused and wondering if greenhouse aprons had to be made from a certain material or ought to meet some kind of quality standard.
“是的，”赫敏说，更加困惑了，想知道温室围裙是不是必须用某种材料制成，或者应该满足某种质量标准。

“And he let you live?”
“他让你活着？”

Hermione’s clouded expression was immediately cleared by the appearance of her wide, bright grin which Neville returned, his shoulders shaking with barely-repressed mirth.
赫敏朦胧的表情立刻被她灿烂而灿烂的笑容所掩盖，纳威回来了，他的肩膀因几乎无法抑制的笑容而颤抖。

“I have been considering having them rewrite my Chocolate Frog card,” Hermione said, leaning forward with a confiding tone, “but I don’t think anyone would believe it. Best just stick with all the Horcrux destroying and dragon riding stuff.”
“我一直在考虑让他们重写我的巧克力蛙卡，”赫敏说，用一种倾诉的语气向前倾，“但我想没有人会相信。最好还是坚持使用所有摧毁魂器和骑龙的东西。

Neville nodded gravely, wearing a look of deep sympathy. “They say it’s the greatest achievements that are the hardest to believe.”
纳威严肃地点点头，露出深深的同情。“他们说，最伟大的成就是最难相信的。”

Catching one another’s eyes they snorted and descended into peels of laughter, Hermione throwing her head back and Neville curling over into himself.
他们四目相接，哼了一声，大笑起来，赫敏把头向后仰，纳威蜷缩着身体。

Straightening up, Neville wiped his shimmering eyes and gave a loud satisfied sigh that suggested he hadn’t laughed so much in a while. For a wild moment, Hermione wondered what would happen if she told him what else she’d seen of Lucius Malfoy. Well, a highly edited version of it. But she couldn’t – keeping it from the Wizengamot meant secrecy overall, even if Neville was kind and understanding. He wouldn’t hate her. Maybe. Or maybe even if she could tell him, it wasn’t worth the risk that he would.  
纳威直起身来，擦了擦他闪闪发光的眼睛，满意地大声叹了口气，这表明他已经有一段时间没有笑了。有那么一刻，赫敏在想，如果她告诉他她还看到了卢修斯·马尔福的什么，会发生什么。嗯，这是它的高度编辑版本。但她不能——不让威森加摩知道这件事意味着总体上是保密的，即使纳威是善良和善解人意的。他不会恨她的。或。或者，即使她能告诉他，他也不值得冒险。

“Tea?” he asked, carefully lifting the dittany pot into his arms and cradling it against his stomach.
“茶吗？”他问道，小心翼翼地把小罐子抱在怀里，把它抱在肚子上。

“Sure,” Hermione said, a somewhat defeated edge to her voice as the moment passed. She wouldn’t—couldn’t—tell him. Not today, at least. 
“当然，”赫敏说，随着时间的流逝，她的声音里有些挫败。她不会——不能——告诉他。至少今天不会。

They moved from the greenhouses to Neville’s office, walking through the empty entrance hall of the castle to get to it. It was so strange to be in Hogwarts during the holidays—the big stone halls were meant to echo with loud, excitable student voices and thundering footsteps moving between classes, rather than quiet conversations between two subdued adults. 
他们从温室搬到了纳威的办公室，穿过城堡空荡荡的门厅才到达办公室。假期里在霍格沃茨真是太奇怪了——巨大的石头大厅里本来是回荡着响亮、兴奋的学生声音和课间雷鸣般的脚步声，而不是两个被压制的成年人之间安静的对话。

Despite knowing that, Hermione wasn’t sure she could ever comfortably return to her schooldays. She thought of walking to classes, anxiously looking back to make sure Ron and Harry were keeping up and not making her late. Or fighting through throngs of other houses on the way out of dinner, trying to make herself heard above the noise, the thought of holding herself up in the quiet of the library or her favourite corner of the common room keeping her sane. 
尽管知道这一点，赫敏还是不确定她是否能舒适地回到她的学生时代。她想着走路去上课，焦急地回头看，确保罗恩和哈利能跟上，不要让她迟到。或者在吃完晚饭的路上穿过成群结队的其他房子，试图让自己的声音盖过喧嚣，一想到要在安静的图书馆或她最喜欢的公共休息室角落里站起来，就能保持理智。

They were fond memories but she wasn’t particularly keen on reliving them. Somehow there was something comforting about that—even if she wasn’t sure exactly what she was supposed to be doing, she’d firmly moved past what she had been doing.
这些都是美好的回忆，但她并不是特别热衷于重温它们。不知何故，这其中有一些令人欣慰的东西——即使她不确定自己到底应该做什么，她已经坚定地超越了她一直在做的事情。

Neville’s office was cosy and warm with squashy chairs and a large number of plants dotted around. It was almost like another greenhouse. The entire wall behind his desk had been taken over by an ivy which, to Hermione’s eye, looked like it was attempting to crawl onto the ceiling, too. He’d probably have to watch that, she thought, having visions of it one day crawling around to block his door.
内维尔的办公室舒适而温暖，有一把南瓜椅子和大量的植物。它几乎就像另一个温室。他桌子后面的整面墙都被一棵常春藤占据了，在赫敏看来，它看起来也好像也想爬到天花板上。他可能得看着那个，她想，有一天他看到它爬来爬去堵住他的门。

Depositing a tray of tea on his desk, Neville shuffled over towards his bookcase and began to pick out the books he’d told her about, occasionally having to gently lift the leaf of a plant out of the way of a title. While he searched, Hermione set about pouring their tea. Neville only took milk but he always had honey for her.
纳威把一盘茶放在书桌上，拖着脚步走向他的书架，开始挑选他告诉她的书，偶尔不得不轻轻地把植物的叶子从书名上掀开。在他寻找的时候，赫敏开始给他们倒茶。纳威只喝牛奶，但他总是给她吃蜂蜜。

“I think these should do the trick,” Neville said, setting four thick tomes on the desk beside her and the still-shimmering dittany cutting. 
“我觉得这些应该能解决问题，”纳威说，把四本厚厚的书放在她旁边的桌子上，还有仍然闪闪发光的碎屑。

“Wonderful. I’ll make sure he gets them.”
“太好了。我会确保他得到它们。

Apparently satisfied that he’d done all he could for Lucius Malfoy’s plants, short of going to Malfoy Manor himself, Neville settled into his chair and pulled his tea towards himself with a murmur of thanks to Hermione for preparing it. They sat in a comfortable silence for a while, Hermione stirring honey into her tea while Neville drank his.
纳威显然对自己为卢修斯·马尔福的植物所做的一切感到满意，除了亲自去马尔福庄园之外，纳威坐在椅子上，把茶拉向自己，低声感谢赫敏准备了茶。他们舒服地沉默了一会儿，赫敏在她的茶里搅拌蜂蜜，而纳威则喝他的茶。

“Hermione,” he said eventually, “can I talk to you about something?”
“赫敏，”他终于说，“我可以和你谈谈什么吗？

Setting her spoon down carefully on her saucer, Hermione nodded and smiled. “Of course, Neville. You don’t have to ask; we can talk about anything.”
赫敏小心翼翼地把勺子放在她的碟子上，点点头，微笑着。“当然，纳威。你不必问;我们可以谈论任何事情。

“It’s about Ron and Hannah.”
“这是关于 Ron 和 Hannah 的。”

Oh . Except that. Don’t get involved, Harry had said. She still agreed with him. “Actually, Neville, I don’t know if that’s the best—”
哦。除了那个。不要卷入其中，哈利说。她还是同意他的看法。“其实，纳威，我不知道那是最好的吗——”

“Please, Hermione,” Neville said, his voice taking on a desperate edge. “I need to talk about this with someone because I can’t keep it in anymore, I just can’t, and I—”
“求求你了，赫敏，”纳威说，他的声音带着绝望的边缘。“我需要和某人谈谈这件事，因为我不能再把它藏在心里了，我就是不能，而且我——”

“Neville ,” Hermione said, alarmed, reaching a calming hand across his desk. “Neville, it’s alright. It’s fine. We can talk. I can listen.”
“纳威，”赫敏惊恐地说，伸出一只安抚他的手。“纳威，没事。没事的。我们可以交谈。我可以听。

“Alright, just…” he took a calming breath, his chest rising and falling slowly. “Just try not to judge me, okay?”
“好吧，就......”他平静地吸了一口气，胸口缓缓起伏。“尽量不要评判我，好吗？”

“Neville, as if I would ever judge you,” Hermione said, feeling increasingly uneasy. What could Neville possibly have done that was putting him so much on edge? 
“纳威，就好像我永远都不会评判你一样，”赫敏说，感觉越来越不安。纳威可能做了什么让他如此紧张？

“I’ve been helping Hannah apply for the matron job at Hogwarts,” Neville said, his face contorting as though he’d just told Hermione that he’d decapitated Hannah and had been keeping her head on his pillow for a week. 
“我一直在帮汉娜申请霍格沃茨的护士长工作，”纳威说，他的脸扭曲了起来，就像他刚刚告诉赫敏，他已经把汉娜斩首了，而且已经把她的头放在他的枕头上一个星期了。

In response, Hermione simply nodded. That was exactly what she’d thought was happening. Rather than appear comforted by her complete lack of surprise, Neville only seemed to grow more anxious.
作为回应，赫敏只是点了点头。这正是她认为正在发生的事情。纳威并没有因为她完全没有惊讶而感到安慰，反而似乎变得更加焦虑了。

“She got the job. McGonagall told her this morning and Hannah owled me. She starts in September and she’ll train under Poppy for a year.”
“她得到了这份工作。麦格今天早上告诉了她，汉娜还欠了我。她从 9 月开始，她将在 Poppy 的指导下训练一年。

Ah , Hermione thought. That meant Ron probably had a very difficult conversation ahead of him when he got home from the shop. He did not do well with difficult conversations after work. Especially on those busy weekend days during the summer holidays; Hermione remembered that well enough from their time together.
啊，赫敏想。这意味着当 Ron 从商店回家时，他可能要进行一场非常艰难的对话。他下班后很难进行艰难的对话。尤其是在暑假期间那些繁忙的周末;赫敏对他们在一起的时候记得很清楚。

“She’ll be delighted, I’m sure,” Hermione said politely, feeling it best not to comment on Ron at all.
“她会很高兴的，我敢肯定，”赫敏礼貌地说，觉得最好不要评论罗恩。

“She is! Of course she is. But, Hermione, Ron didn’t want her to come here,” Neville said, gripping his teacup. “I know he didn’t because he told me. Hannah told me too. But I still helped her even though he’s my mate.”
“她是！她当然是。但是，赫敏，罗恩不想让她来这里，“纳威说，手里拿着他的茶杯。“我知道他没有，因为他告诉我。汉娜也跟我说。但我仍然帮助了她，即使他是我的伴侣。

“Hannah’s your mate too, isn’t she?”
“汉娜也是你的朋友，不是吗？”

“Well, yeah, but Ron was my mate first , Hermione. It’s like…a code, isn’t it? I broke it. I betrayed him.”
“嗯，是的，但罗恩首先是我的朋友，赫敏。就像......一个代码，不是吗？我打破了它。我背叛了他。

“Neville, come on, ‘betrayed’ is a very strong word. I mean, he doesn’t want Hannah to go but that doesn’t mean you betrayed him. It’s not like you’ve…you’ve jumped into bed with her or something,” Hermione laughed disbelievingly, praying that Neville hadn’t jumped into bed with her. “You just helped her interview for a job.”
“纳威，拜托，'背叛'是一个非常强烈的词。我的意思是，他不想让 Hannah 走，但这并不意味着你背叛了他。你又不是......你和她一起跳上床了什么的，“赫敏难以置信地笑了起来，祈祷纳威没有和她一起跳上床。“你刚刚帮她面试了一份工作。”

A strange sort of anguish passed over Neville’s face like a cloud in high winds and he dropped his head into his hands. 
一种奇怪的痛苦像大风中的云一样掠过纳威的脸，他把头埋在手里。

“I did more than that,” he said. Hermione almost dropped her teacup. Bloody hell, had he jumped into bed with her? “I helped her write her application, I coached her for the interview. I even put in a reference for her to McGonagall. I did pretty much everything I could to get her here. The opposite of what Ron wanted.”
“我做的不止这些，”他说。赫敏差点把她的茶杯掉下来。的，他和她一起跳上床了吗？“我帮助她写了申请，我指导她参加面试。我甚至把她提到了麦格。我几乎尽了我所能把她带到这里。这与罗恩想要的相反。

Hermione opened her mouth to point out that this wasn’t about Ron when Neville shook his head. “I am her mate, I know that, but I don’t know if that’s all I want to be and I feel horrible . I tried to get her here because it was what I wanted.”
赫敏张开嘴指出这与罗恩无关，这时纳威摇了摇头。“我是她的伴侣，我知道这一点，但我不知道这是否就是我想要成为的全部，我感到很糟糕。我试图让她来到这里，因为那是我想要的。

Okay, so he hadn’t jumped into bed with her. It was possible he’d just thought that he might one day want to do that. Hermione could handle that, emotionally complicated as it was. 
好吧，所以他没有和她一起跳上床。他可能只是想着，有一天他可能会想这样做。赫敏能应付得了，尽管这在情感上很复杂。

“Neville, look, I can appreciate that you feel guilty over your motivations for helping Hannah but something I think both you and Ron have actually forgotten in this whole thing is Hannah .”
“纳威，听着，我很理解你对自己帮助汉娜的动机感到内疚，但我认为你和罗恩在整件事中实际上都忘记了汉娜。”

Neville glanced up at Hermione wearing a small frown, and she was fairly sure that he was resentfully thinking that the one person he actually couldn’t bring himself to forget was Hannah, thank you very much. 
纳威抬头看了一眼皱着眉头的赫敏，她相当确定他正在愤恨地想，他实际上无法忘记的人是汉娜，非常感谢你。

“She wanted this job,” Hermione explained, “and she was going to try to get it whether you helped her or not. She might well have gotten it whether you helped her or not. You're giving yourself rather a lot of credit. Besides all that, even if you do fancy her, it’s not going to matter a jot if she doesn’t fancy you too. You know that, right?”
“她想要这份工作，”赫敏解释道，“不管你帮不忙，她都会努力得到它。不管你帮不忙，她很可能都明白了。你给了自己相当多的荣誉。除此之外，即使你真的喜欢她，如果她也不喜欢你，那也没关系。你知道的，对吧？

“I—I do,” Neville said with a nod that started uncertain and quickly became more firm. “Of course I do.”
“我——我愿意，”纳威点点头说，开始不确定，但很快就变得更加坚定。“我当然知道。”

“Good.” 
“很好。”

“Ron’s going to be furious, though, isn’t he.” Neville phrased it like a question but said it with the flat tone that tended to accompany resigned certainty. 
“不过，罗恩会很生气的，不是吗。”纳威把这句话说得像个问题，但说起来的语气平淡，往往伴随着无奈的确定。

Hermione faltered, her face screwing up as she considered Ron’s likely reaction. He probably would be furious. And if he found out that Neville had helped Hannah, then it was very possible that Neville would bear the brunt of it. At the heart of the whole thing, however, was the fact that Ron and Hannah weren’t on the same page. That was certainly not Neville’s fault. Eventually Ron would realise that. 
赫敏动摇了，她的脸在思考罗恩可能的反应时变得扭曲。他可能会很生气。如果他发现纳威帮助了汉娜，那么纳威很可能会首当其冲。然而，整件事的核心是 Ron 和 Hannah 并不在同一页面上。那当然不是纳威的错。最终，罗恩会意识到这一点。

“Well, if he is, he won’t be furious forever,” Hermione said, sure to inject some confidence into her voice before taking a sip of her tea. “Neville, if Hannah had come to you for help and you’d turned her away, would you be beating yourself up for that, too?”
“嗯，如果他是的话，他就不会永远生气了，”赫敏说，在喝了一口茶之前，她的声音里肯定会注入一些自信。“纳威，如果汉娜来找你帮忙，而你却把她拒之门外，你也会为此自责吗？”

“Probably,” Neville mumbled, clutching his cup and staring into it morosely. “Sometimes I just get jealous of them, you know?”
“也许吧，”纳威喃喃自语，紧紧攥着杯子，闷闷不乐地盯着杯子。“有时候我就是嫉妒他们，你知道吗？”

“Of who?”
“谁？”

“Couples.” There was a sorrowful tilt to his brows. “It's the way they look at one another. The intimacy, I guess.” 
“情侣。”他的眉头一怜。“这是他们看待彼此的方式。我猜是那种亲密感。

Neville self-consciously shrugged off Hermione’s look of concern. “It can get lonely here, Hermione. I get lonely. I just…I really liked the idea of having someone close to our age here all the time. That doesn’t happen a lot. Y’know, funnily enough, not a lot of people in their twenties want to spend most of their year locked up in a castle teaching people who are sometimes less than a decade younger than them.”
纳威不自觉地对赫敏关切的眼神不屑一顾。“这里会很寂寞的，赫敏。 我感到孤独。我只是。。。我真的很喜欢一直有与我们年龄相近的人在这里的想法。这种情况并不经常发生。你知道，有趣的是，没有多少 20 多岁的人愿意把一年中的大部分时间都关在城堡里，教有时比他们年轻不到十岁的人。

Hermione’s eyes combed Neville’s face, trying to keep the sadness out of her expression. Loneliness. It made sense. Hermione knew that Neville got on well with his fellow teachers as well as his pupils but there was always going to be something of a disconnect.  It felt silly to her now that they’d ever thought their occasional drinks at the Hogshead would be enough. The times when they hadn’t been able to make them and cancelled must have hit Neville particularly hard, not that he’d ever say anything. 
赫敏的眼睛梳理着纳威的脸，试图把悲伤的表情从她的表情中抹去。孤独。这是有道理的。赫敏知道纳威和他的老师同事以及他的学生都相处得很好，但总会有一些脱节。现在她觉得很傻，因为他们曾经认为偶尔在 Hogshead 喝一杯就足够了。他们没能参加并取消的时候对纳威的打击一定特别大，他从来不会说什么。

Through the war, Neville had stopped being someone that needed help and started being someone that helped. It was possible he still hadn’t settled into a balance between the two.
在战争中，纳威不再是一个需要帮助的人，而是开始成为一个乐于助人的人。他可能仍然没有在两者之间取得平衡。

“You know I’ll come whenever you call, Neville,” she assured him. “It doesn’t have to just be those drinks in Hogsmeade; it can be anything. It doesn’t have to just be me and you, either. What about Luna? She’s single too. We could do...something. Something single people do."
“你知道你什么时候打电话我就会来，纳威，”她向他保证。“不一定只是霍格莫德的那些饮料;它可以是任何东西。也不一定只有我和你。露娜呢？她也是单身。我们可以做...东西。单身人士会做的事情。

Neville shook his head. “Bumped into her on a date with Pansy the other day.”
纳威摇摇头。“前几天和潘西约会时碰到了她。”

“Pansy?” Hermione asked, fumbling with her teacup and wincing as some of the hot liquid licked at the edge of her finger. “Pansy Parkinson?”
“三色堇？”赫敏问道，摸索着她的茶杯，当一些热液体舔到她的指尖时，她皱起了眉头。“三色堇帕金森？”

Neville nodded forlornly. “But Luna…” Hermione shook her head. “Luna is far too lovely for Pansy Parkinson .”
纳威悲哀地点点头。“但是露娜......”赫敏摇摇头。“Luna 对 Pansy Parkinson 来说太可爱了。”

“They seemed pretty happy,” Neville said with a shrug. “In their own way. Luna said Pansy just needed someone to encourage her to see beyond what everyone else sees. Pansy said Luna needed someone to tell her when to shut up.” Hermione laughed breathily. “You know Luna – comments like that are water off a Grindylow’s horn. And there was none of Pansy’s usual venom in it.”
“他们看起来挺高兴的，”纳威耸耸肩说。“以他们自己的方式。Luna 说 Pansy 只是需要有人鼓励她超越其他人看到的东西。潘西说卢娜需要有人告诉她什么时候该闭嘴。赫敏气喘吁吁地笑了起来。“你知道的，Luna——像这样的评论简直是 Grindylow 的角上的水。而且里面没有潘西通常的毒液。

“A defanged Pansy,” Hermione said thoughtfully. “Now that is a prospect.” And was it really such an impossible prospect? Hermione felt it would be hypocritical to doubt that Pansy Parkinson could be more than she’d initially appeared when only the night before Hermione had been curled up in Lucius Malfoy’s lap. How much, she wondered, did anyone ever really know about anyone else? 
“一个没有獠牙的三色堇，”赫敏若有所思地说。“现在这是一个前景。”这真的是一个不可能的前景吗？赫敏觉得怀疑潘西·帕金森是否比她最初出现的更多是虚伪的，就在前一天晚上，赫敏还蜷缩在卢修斯·马尔福的腿上。她想知道，有人真的了解过多少其他人？

“Don’t you ever want that intimacy, Hermione?” Neville added, giving her an appealing look. “Do you ever feel jealous?”
“你从来不想要那种亲密吗，赫敏？”纳威补充道，给了她一个诱人的眼神。“你有没有嫉妒过？”

“I—” Hermione broke off, setting her cup on her saucer with exaggerated care so that she could put off looking at Neville. “I don’t know, Neville. Maybe.”
“我——”赫敏打断了她的话，夸张地小心翼翼地把杯子放在她的碟子上，这样她就可以不看纳威了。“我不知道，纳威。也许吧。

Eyeing the milky surface of her tea, Hermione considered his words. What was intimacy, really? Was it physical or mental? Both? Was it knowing someone and letting them know you? There was nothing wrong with wanting that. In a lot of ways, she had it with her friends, with Neville himself, and it was more than enough to satisfy her. But there was another form of intimacy.
看着她茶的乳白色表面，赫敏思考着他的话。什么是亲密关系，到底是什么？是身体上的还是精神上的？双？是认识某人并让他们认识你吗？想要那个并没有错。在很多方面，她和她的朋友们在一起，和纳威本人在一起，这足以让她满意。但还有另一种形式的亲密。

Hermione chewed her lip, her mind going back to the night before. Lucius Malfoy’s arms around her, buried inside her, his words in her ear. Words he’d just seemed to know she’d like to hear. The night they’d spent talking in his study. That was intimacy too, wasn’t it? Her relationship with him was, at that moment, perhaps one of the most intimate she had. How odd. Realising that made her want to keep it to herself, to hold it close and not let anyone else ruin it. Suddenly she was glad she couldn’t tell Neville.
赫敏咬了咬嘴唇，她的思绪回到了前一天晚上。卢修斯·马尔福的手臂搂着她，埋在她体内，他的话在她耳边。他似乎只是知道她想听的话。他们在他的书房里聊天的那个晚上。那也是亲密关系，不是吗？在那一刻，她和他的关系也许是她最亲密的关系之一。真奇怪。意识到这一点让她想把它留给自己，紧紧地抱着它，不让别人毁了它。突然间，她很高兴自己不能告诉纳威。

“You deserve it,” he said. “If you want it. To have that with someone. You're always so kind, Hermione.”
“你活该，”他说。“如果你想要的话。与某人一起拥有它。你总是那么善良，赫敏。

“Oh, I don't think—”
“哦，我不觉得——”

“You are ,” he insisted. “Don’t deny it. All through school you were kind to me. You’re being kind to me now even though I don’t deserve it. I mean, you're sitting there with a plant for Lucius Malfoy of all people.”
“你是，”他坚持说。“不要否认。在整个学校里，你都对我很好。你现在对我很好，即使我不配。我是说，你坐在那里，拿着一棵适合卢修斯·马尔福的植物。

Hermione chuckled uneasily, all too aware that part of her motivation for getting Lucius the plant was because she thought it might annoy him and she still rather enjoyed doing that.
赫敏不安地笑了笑，她太清楚她给卢修斯买植物的部分动机是因为她觉得这可能会惹恼他，而她还是很喜欢这样做。

“Wonder if he gets lonely,” Neville mused, so quiet Hermione would have believed he was talking to himself had he not been looking at her. “Being locked up in his house and that.”
“不知道他会不会感到孤独，”纳威若有所思地说道，如果不是他一直在看着她，赫敏会以为他在自言自语。“被关在他家里等等。”

Yes . He must . “I…I don’t know Neville.”
是的。他必须 .“我......我不认识纳威。

“Is he still being horrible to you?”
“他还对你很糟糕吗？”

Hermione opened her mouth, taking in and holding a breath as she met Neville’s interrogative gaze. “No,” she said on an exhale. “No, he’s…he’s not.”
赫敏张开嘴，深吸一口气，与纳威质问的目光相遇。“不，”她呼出一口气说。“不，他......他不是。

“Good,” Neville said, nodding firmly. “Maybe he’s realised how lucky he is to have anyone there at all.”
“很好，”纳威说，坚定地点了点头。“也许他已经意识到他有任何人在场是多么幸运。”

They lapsed into silence, both sipping their tea and Hermione’s heart beating rapidly. Over Neville’s shoulder on his desk, she watched a flower ensconced in a bell jar sprout from the earth, bloom with beautiful violet petals and wilt all in the space of a minute. 
他们陷入了沉默，两人都啜饮着茶，赫敏的心跳加速。越过纳威的肩膀，她看着一朵花从地里冒出来，花瓣上绽放着美丽的紫罗兰花瓣，在一分钟内枯萎。

It started the process all over again and Hermione inspected it, wondering if it would grow in the exact same way or if there would be variations in its petals or stem. It was only on its fourth cycle that she noticed some faint white stripes through the violet that hadn’t been there before. 
它又重新开始了这个过程，赫敏检查了它，想知道它是否会以完全相同的方式生长，或者它的花瓣或茎是否会发生变化。直到第四个周期，她才注意到紫罗兰中有一些以前没有的淡淡的白色条纹。

“How are you feeling about being made godfather?” Hermione eventually asked, tearing her eyes away from the plant. She wanted to cheer Neville up and reminding him of his deepening connection with the Potters felt like a decent way to try it. “Sunk in yet?”
“你成为教父感觉如何？”赫敏最终问道，把目光从那株植物上移开。她想让纳威振作起来，提醒他他与波特家族的联系越来越深，感觉是一种不错的尝试方式。“沉入水中了吗？”

Looking somewhat less put upon, Neville grinned shyly and shook his head. “Not really. Chuffed, obviously, but to think Harry and Ginny would want to have me …”
纳威看起来不那么拘谨了，害羞地咧嘴一笑，摇了摇头。“不是真的。显然，他很高兴，但想到哈利和金妮会想拥有我......”

“Well, I don’t think they could have picked anyone better, Neville. You’ll be able to spoil him something terrible when he gets to Hogwarts, y’know.”
“嗯，我不认为他们能选出更好的人，纳威。当他来到霍格沃茨时，你可以剧透他一些可怕的东西，你知道的。

“Oh, I’d never,” Neville said with a pleased blush which told Hermione that spoiling Albus Severus was exactly what he intended to do. “It’s great, though. Plus, I kind of like to think Snape would be a tiny bit furious about me being godfather to his namesake. I’m going to help mould him into the kindest and most patient Severus there’s ever been.” 
“哦，我永远不会，”纳威高兴地红着脸说，这告诉赫敏，宠坏阿不思·西弗勒斯正是他打算做的。“不过，这很好。另外，我有点觉得斯内普会因为我成为他同名的教父而有点生气。我要帮忙把他塑造成有史以来最善良、最有耐心的西弗勒斯。

An incredulous laugh burst from Hermione’s lips and she leaned back to assess Neville with raised eyebrows. He gave her a guilty grin in response and shrugged his shoulders. "Even if I do kind of get why he hated teaching sometimes. Did I tell you about the watering can incident with my first years just after the Easter break?"
赫敏的嘴里发出一阵难以置信的笑声，她向后靠去，扬起眉毛打量着纳威。他向她愧疚地笑了笑，然后耸了耸肩。“即使我确实有点明白他为什么有时讨厌教书。我有没有跟你说过我一年级的复活节假期后发生喷壶事件？

Hermione shook her head and leaned forward avidly to listen to Neville recount the tale.
赫敏摇摇头，热情地向前倾，听纳威讲述这个故事。

It had just turned 8pm and Hermione was contemplating the dittany cutting that was rotating in stasis above her dresser. Neville had said to get it to Malfoy quickly so, really, she could just take it to him straight away. It was a good excuse to go. And yet a part of her was holding back. 8pm was an explicitly social visit. She couldn't really pretend she was starting work at 8. There was nothing casual about it
晚上八点刚过，赫敏正在考虑她的梳妆台上方静止旋转的 dittany 剪辑。纳威说过要快点把它交给马尔福，这样，真的，她可以马上把它拿给他。这是一个很好的借口。然而，她的一部分却在退缩。晚上 8 点显然是一次社交访问。她真的不能假装自己 8 岁就开始工作了。这绝非随意

"For Merlin's sake, Hermione, this is pathetic," she muttered.
“看在梅林的份上，赫敏，这太可悲了，”她咕哝道。

A crash from the living room next door jolted Hermione out of her reverie and, with a glance at the dittany to make sure it was stable, she bolted from her bedroom, wand aloft. Arriving in the living room doorway, she peered into the room, not seeing a sign of anything that could have made the noise. Then a tuft of red hair appeared over the edge of her coffee table accompanied by laboured grunts.
隔壁客厅传来的撞击声将赫敏从遐想中惊醒，她看了一眼小瓶子，确保它稳定下来，然后高举着魔杖从卧室里冲了出来。到达客厅门口后，她向房间里看了看，没有看到任何可能发出声音的迹象。然后，一簇红头发从她的咖啡桌边缘冒出来，伴随着费力的咕噜声。

“Ron?” Hermione asked, stepping into the room and lowering her wand. “Is that you?”
“罗恩？”赫敏问道，走进房间，放下了她的魔杖。“是你吗？”

Ron, who had apparently been lying on the floor, peered over the surface of the coffee table before pushing himself into a kneeling position. Taking a fortifying breath, he climbed unsteadily to his feet, his tall body swaying like a spindly sapling in a strong wind.
罗恩显然一直躺在地板上，他从咖啡桌的表面看了一眼，然后把自己推到了跪着的姿势。他深吸一口气，摇摇晃晃地站了起来，他高大的身躯像一棵在强风中摇曳的细树苗。

“I’m so sorry,” he said, sounding faintly bewildered. “I jus’…fell over I think? You’ve got a very slip…sleep…slip-peppery fireplace.” Ron snorted to himself and ran a hand down his face, murmuring something about funny words. 
“我很抱歉，”他说，听起来有点困惑。“我只是......我想摔倒了？你滑得很厉害......睡。。。滑溜溜的壁炉。罗恩哼了一声，一只手顺着他的脸滑过，喃喃自语着一些有趣的话。

Oh god . 
天啊。

“Ron, have you been drinking?” Hermione asked, entering the room properly with her arms crossed.
“罗恩，你喝酒了吗？”赫敏问道，她双臂交叉正确地走进了房间。

“No,” he said staunchly, imitating Hermione’s crossed arms and stern expression. Seeing her raised eyebrows, he shrugged his shoulders defensively. “Maybe. Yes.”
“不，”他坚定地说，模仿赫敏交叉的手臂和严厉的表情。看到她扬起的眉毛，他防御性地耸了耸肩。“也许吧。是的。

Neville’s warning about Hannah getting the job had, it turned out, been extremely timely. In her mind’s eye, Hermione could quite easily see the order of Ron’s day: kissing Hannah goodbye in the morning, working a stressful day in the shop—where he spent more time being security against trouble-making Fred and George aspirants than anything else—before returning home to have a discussion with Hannah that would inevitably escalate into an argument. Then to the pub. Then to Hermione. 
事实证明，内维尔关于汉娜得到这份工作的警告非常及时。在她的脑海中，赫敏很容易就能看出罗恩一天的顺序：早上吻别汉娜，在店里工作一天——他花了更多的时间来防止惹麻烦的弗雷德和乔治有抱负的人——然后回家与汉娜进行讨论，这不可避免地会升级为争吵。然后去酒吧。然后是赫敏。

“Is it Hannah?” Hermione asked, seeing no point in feigning ignorance when Ron was clearly too drunk to appreciate any kind of attempt at subtlety. 
“是汉娜吗？”赫敏问道，她觉得装作无知是没有意义的，因为罗恩显然喝得太醉了，无法欣赏任何形式的微妙尝试。

Without warning, Ron’s lip trembled violently and his eyes filled with tears. “She’s leaving,” he cried, his folded arms unravelling to flop down to his sides. “She’s taking the job at H-Ho-Hogwarts.”
毫无征兆地，罗恩的嘴唇剧烈颤抖，眼中充满了泪水。“她要走了，”他喊道，他交叠的双臂张开，垂到身体两侧。“她要去霍格沃茨上班了。”

“Oh, Ron,” Hermione said, uncrossing her own arms and stretching out a sympathetic hand. Placing it on his shoulder, she guided him away from the fireplace towards the sofa. The soft, safe sofa where there was less of a risk of him toppling headfirst into an injury. 
“哦，罗恩，”赫敏说，松开自己的双臂，伸出一只同情的手。她把它放在他的肩膀上，引导他离开壁炉，走向沙发。柔软、安全的沙发，他头朝下摔伤的风险较小。

“And I told her,” he hiccuped, allowing Hermione to lead him to the sofa without fuss. ”I told her that I didn’t want her to go. I - I sh-said it’s me or the job, Hannah, and d’you know what she said?”
“我告诉过她，”他打了个嗝，让赫敏毫不犹豫地把他带到沙发上。“我告诉她，我不想让她走。我——我害羞地说这是我还是这份工作，Hannah，你知道她说什么吗？

Reaching the sofa, Hermione pressed Ron towards it so that the seat of it hit the backs of his knees and caught his falling body with a muffled thump .  
走到沙发前，赫敏把罗恩压向它，让沙发的座椅碰到他的膝盖后部，用一声闷闷的砰砰声接住他坠落的身体。

“What?” Hermione asked warily, staring down at him. To her mind, saying something like that to a Hufflepuff could go go one of two ways: either they’d defer to please and simmer with a quiet resentment or they’d blow their fucking top at the injustice of it. 
“什么？”赫敏小心翼翼地问道，低头盯着他。在她看来，对赫奇帕奇说这样的话可能有两种方式之一：要么他们听从取悦，带着无声的怨恨煽动起来，要么他们他妈的对它的不公正感到愤怒。

“She said it wasn’ a job, it was a c-calling and if I understood that then I wouldn’t ask her to— hic —choose.”
“她说这是一份工作，这是一次 c-calling，如果我明白这一点，那我就不会要求她——嘿嘿——选择。”

So what did you say?” she asked, trying not to sound as tired as she felt. The fact that Ron was in her flat, stinking drunk, meant that his response had probably been less fair.
所以你说什么呢？“她问道，尽量不让自己听起来像她感觉的那样疲惫。事实上，罗恩在她的公寓里，喝得酩酊大醉，这意味着他的反应可能不太公平。

“I sh-said if she actually loved me then it wouldn’ even be a ch-choice.”
“我害羞地说，如果她真的爱我，那甚至不会是一个 ch 选择。”

“Oh, Ron ,” Hermione groaned, sinking onto the sofa beside him and dropping her head into her hands. 
“哦，罗恩，”赫敏呻吟着，瘫倒在他旁边的沙发上，把头埋在手里。

“She ch-chose the job,” he said, his voice high and disbelieving. “Didn’ even have to— hic — think about it.”
“她选择了这份工作，”他说，他的声音高亢而难以置信。“甚至不需要——嘿——考虑一下。”

Hermione sighed, frustrated. It sounded to her like Hannah had given Ron a choice too and he hadn’t even recognised it. 
赫敏叹了口气，沮丧不已。在她看来，汉娜也给了罗恩一个选择，而他甚至没有意识到这一点。

“Do you know the worsht th-thing?” he continued, becoming unexpectedly enraged. “ Neville helped her, Herm—Hermio—” Ron gave up trying to pronounce her name, his tongue stumbling and falling at the last hurdle. “Neville! Neville!” He leaned into her, his eyes wide. “Neville!”
“你知道这是什么鬼吗？” 他继续说，出乎意料地变得愤怒起来。“纳威帮了她，赫尔姆——赫尔米奥——”罗恩放弃了念出她的名字，他的舌头在最后一道障碍上跌了下来。“纳威！纳威！他靠在她身上，睁大了眼睛。“纳威！”

“Ron, stop saying Neville.” 
“罗恩，别再说纳威了。”

“But he was the one that helped her g-get it! The job. Tha’s part of why she was vis’ting him the weekend of the baby shower. Neville! He’s my mate! ” Ron shook his head, hands coming up to grip his hair as though he might start tearing at it. “Knew he had a thing for her,” Ron muttered darkly. “Always asking ‘bout her. He jus’ wants to spirit her away to a mag-mag-magical castle and keep her to himself. She’s my princess .”
“但他是帮助她 g 得到它的人！工作。这是她在迎婴派对的周末去看他的原因之一。内维尔！他是我的伙伴！“罗恩摇摇头，双手伸过来抓住他的头发，仿佛他要开始撕扯它。”知道他对她有好感，“罗恩阴沉地咕哝着。“总是问她。他想把她带到一座 mag-mag-magical 城堡，把她留给自己。她是我的公主。

Oh for goodness’ sake . It was rather galling that Neville had called it better than she had. “Ron, I hardly think that Hannah is even thinking—”
哦，看在老天爷的份上。纳威说得比她自己还好，这真是令人沮丧。“罗恩，我几乎不认为汉娜在想——”

“You heard what he said. H-hard to meet people up there! Had to bring himself a ready made girlfriend, didn’t he? Mine ! Well, he can fuck off .” 
“你听到他说了什么。H-很难在那儿认识人！他必须给自己带来一个现成的女朋友，不是吗？ 矿山！好吧，他可以滚蛋。

Ron sprayed spit with the vehemence of his curse but there was a pathetic slump to his shoulders that made Hermione sigh. Hannah deserved to take the job she wanted and had spent years training for without him guilt-tripping her and making ultimatums. 
罗恩猛烈地咒骂着喷了口唾沫，但他的肩膀可怜地瘫软了下来，这让赫敏叹了口气。汉娜应该得到她想要的工作，并且已经为此训练了多年，而他却没有内疚地绊倒她和发出最后通牒。

Long distance was perfectly possible, especially in the wizarding world, but that wasn’t what Ron wanted, she knew. He wanted closeness and comfort, a home where they’d both live together and see one another at the end of each day. That wasn’t wrong, Hermione thought, it was just incompatible with what Hannah wanted. 
远距离是完全可能的，尤其是在魔法世界，但她知道，这不是罗恩想要的。他想要亲密和舒适，一个他们俩住在一起并在每天结束时看到彼此的家。这没有错，赫敏想，只是和汉娜想要的不相容。

She and Ron had had a similar problem—being discontented and unsettled in her work had made Hermione discontented and unsettled at home. When Ron had casually suggested marriage as though it was some kind of solution, Hermione had baulked. Something about falling into her job at the Ministry and going through the motions without ever feeling truly appreciated or like she was achieving her full potential had been reflected in her relationship with Ron. It had taken a proposal - such as it was - for her to see that. The fallout had been terrible for a time but he’d come to understand and Hermione was sure the same would happen for him and Hannah.
她和罗恩也有类似的问题——对她的工作不满意和不安，这让赫敏在家里感到不满和不安。当罗恩随口提出结婚，仿佛这是某种解决方案时，赫敏拒绝了。她在魔法部的工作中，走过场，却从未感到真正被欣赏，或者像她正在充分发挥自己的潜力，这反映在她与罗恩的关系中。她需要一个提议——就像它一样——才能看到这一点。后果一度很可怕，但他已经明白了，赫敏确信同样的事情也会发生在他和汉娜身上。

Ron wanted to be the highest priority in someone’s life—their first and only concern. It tended to make him uncompromising, even slightly short-sighted, and therefore not entirely capable of returning the selfless devotion he desired. It didn’t, however, feel like the right time to have that chat with him.
Ron 想成为某人生活中最优先的时刻——他们首先也是唯一关心的问题。这往往使他不妥协，甚至略显短视，因此不能完全回报他所渴望的无私奉献。然而，现在感觉不是和他聊天的合适时机。

“Look, Ron,” Hermione said, placing a stabilising hand on his shoulder as he slumped towards her. “It’s awful just now. I know it is. But it’ll look different in the morning. Is there anything I can do to help you? Apart from getting you some water?”
“听着，罗恩，”赫敏说，一边把一只手放在他的肩膀上，一边瘫倒在地向她靠拢。“刚才太糟糕了。我知道是的。但早上看起来会有所不同。我能做些什么来帮助您吗？除了给你弄点水？

Hermione rose to do just that and she was only half-way to her feet when Ron grabbed her arm and pulled her back down. Falling with a surprised oomph , Hermione turned to tell Ron off and found his face alarmingly close to hers.
赫敏站起来做了这件事，她才站了一半，罗恩就抓住了她的手臂，把她拉了回来。赫敏惊讶地倒下了，转身想告诉罗恩，却发现他的脸离她很近。

“Have sex with me,” he said, his alcohol-scented breath puffing into her face. 
“和我做爱，”他说，他那带有酒精香味的气息吹到她的脸上。

Recoiling to the other side of the sofa, Hermione stared at Ron open-mouthed and wide-eyed. “Please?” he asked.
赫敏缩到沙发的另一边，张大了嘴巴，瞪大了眼睛盯着罗恩。“拜托？”

“No !” 
“不！”

“You asked if you could help.”
“你问你能不能帮忙。”

“I didn’t mean like that , Ron. Christ! What are you thinking?”
“我不是那个意思，罗恩。基督！你在想什么？

“Please? I rea—” He hiccuped, his eyes closing momentarily as he brought his fist up to his mouth. “R eally think it’d make me feel better. Get over Hannah. Rip the bandage off, y’know?”
“求求你了？我真的——“他打了个嗝，把拳头举到嘴边，眼睛瞬间闭上了。“我真的觉得这会让我感觉好些。克服汉娜。把绷带扯下来，你知道吗？

“Ron!"
“罗恩！”

“You mus’ need’t too. You’re not shagging anyone . Haven’t in ages .” Hermione drew herself up, her expression growing more livid by the second. “Too busy living in— hic —other people’s lives these days. No time for your own. Lot of pent up fr’stration, I bet.”
“你也不必。你没有在惹任何人。好久没了。赫敏站起身来，她的表情在下一秒变得更加生动。“这些天我忙于生活在别人的生活中。没有时间属于你自己。我敢打赌，很多被压抑的朋友。

He raised his eyebrows and tapped the side of his nose twice knowingly—missing it entirely the second time—apparently oblivious to Hermione’s gritted teeth and furious glare. She was tempted to tell him exactly who she’d just shagged and how much better he’d been at bringing her to orgasm than him. Aside from anything else stopping her, she strongly suspected the Cruciatus curse would be a more efficient way of achieving the same result.
他扬起眉毛，故意轻敲了两下自己的鼻子侧面——第二次完全错过了——显然没有注意到赫敏咬牙切齿和愤怒的目光。她很想告诉他她刚刚干了谁，以及他比他更擅长让她达到高潮。除了其他任何阻止她的事情之外，她强烈怀疑十字架诅咒会是达到相同结果的更有效方法。

“It’ll be good for us. Both of us. S’not like we haven’t already done it after the break up.”
“这对我们来说是好事。我们俩。就像我们在分手后还没做过一样。

“Ron, we slept together once a year after we broke up and we were extremely drunk when we did it.”
“罗恩，我们分手后每年睡一次，当我们这样做时，我们喝得酩酊大醉。”

“I’m extremely drunk,” he said with a hopeful smile.
“我喝得酩酊大醉，”他带着希望的微笑说。

“Well, I’m not .”
“嗯，我不是。”

“Can I get you a drink?” he asked, with the lopsided smile that had once made her heart melt. A very long time ago. 
“我能帮你喝一杯吗？”他问道，脸上带着一度让她的心融化的不平衡的笑容。很久以前了。

Still, Hermione snorted, her stony face breaking into a reluctant smile. “Ron, you’ll regret suggesting this in the morning. You’re just drunk and upset.”
尽管如此，赫敏还是哼了一声，她那张坚硬的脸上露出了不情愿的笑容。“罗恩，你会后悔早上提出这个建议的。你只是喝醉了，心烦意乱。

“ Won’t ,” he insisted, bottom lip drooping into a pout. “I feel like I’ll always come back to you in the end. You’re so comforting . Like a cosy jumper. Not one of those itchy ones m’mum knits, either.”
“不会的，”他坚持道，下唇下垂成一个噘嘴。“我觉得我最终总会回到你身边。你真是令人欣慰。就像一件舒适的毛衣。我妈妈编织的那些痒痒的也没有。

How flattering . “That’s not a good thing. We weren’t good together. Have you honestly forgotten that? All the fighting and the crying at the end?”
多么讨人喜欢。“这不是一件好事。 我们在一起并不好。你真的忘记了吗？最后所有的战斗和哭泣？

“No,” his face crumpled with the suddenness of a demolished building. “We weren’t, were we? I think I made you sad sometimes.”
“不，”他的脸因为一栋被拆除的建筑的突然而皱了起来。“我们不是，对吧？我想我有时让你难过。

Hermione ran a frustrated hand through her hair. “You didn’t make me sad, Ron. A lot of things made me sad at that time but you weren’t one of them, okay?” Not always . “After the war was a difficult time. For all of us.” 
赫敏沮丧地用一只手抚摸着她的头发。“你没有让我难过，罗恩。那时很多事情都让我难过，但你不是其中之一，好吗？ 不总是 .“战后是一段艰难的时期。为了我们所有人。

Ron nodded, looking thoroughly pathetic and Hermione sighed. “Look, why don’t you sleep on the sofa and head in the morning? I’m not going to let you apparate like this and frankly I think it’s a miracle you made it here through the Floo.”
罗恩点点头，看起来非常可怜，赫敏叹了口气。“你看，你为什么不睡在沙发上，早上就去呢？我不会让你像这样幻影，坦率地说，我认为你通过飞路来到这里是一个奇迹。

“Thought when you kissed my head in St. Mungo’s that maybe you…that we…”
“当你在圣芒戈亲吻我的头时，我想也许你......我们......”

Hermione’s heart dropped. That had just been affection between friends. At least, that’s what she’d intended it to be. Not that her and Ron had ever really just been friends. First, they’d been friends with a chance of something more and now they were friends between whom there had been something more. Affection never had been and never would be simple between them. Ron was not Harry and sometimes, in her gladness to be his friend again, Hermione knew she forgot that. 
赫敏的心一沉。那只是朋友之间的感情。至少，这就是她想要的样子。并不是说她和罗恩真的只是朋友。起初，他们是有机会获得更多东西的朋友，现在他们是朋友，他们之间有更多的东西。他们之间的感情从来都不是，也永远不会是简单的。罗恩不是哈利，有时候，赫敏很高兴能再次成为他的朋友，她知道她忘记了这一点。

“I’m sorry, Ron. That was just...thoughtless. I was caught up in the moment and so happy about the baby and you were so upset over losing that money.”
“对不起，罗恩。那只是......轻率。我沉浸在那一刻，为这个孩子感到非常高兴，而你却因为失去了那笔钱而感到非常难过。

“All those galleons,” he mumbled sadly. “It was so many galleons.”
“那些大帆船，”他悲伤地咕哝道。“好多帆船。”

“I thought a bit of affection would make you feel better.”
“我以为一点点爱意会让你感觉好些。”

“It did.”
“确实如此。”

“But it wasn’t anything more than that.”
“但仅此而已。”

Ron nodded. ”Feel stupid now,” he mumbled. Hermione inched a bit closer to him, her hand stretched out to comfort him when he burped, making her stop in her tracks. “And a bit sick.”
罗恩点点头。“现在感觉很蠢，”他喃喃自语。赫敏稍微靠近了他一点，当他打嗝时，她伸出手来安慰他，让她停下了脚步。“而且有点病。”

“Toilet,” she said, gripping him and hoisting him off the sofa towards the hallway. “Toilet! Take as long as you need. I’ll be here when you’re done.”
“厕所，”她说，抓住他，把他从沙发上抬起来，朝走廊走去。“厕所！根据需要服用。你完成后我会在这里。

On hearing the bathroom door close, Hermione got to her feet and cringed at the ominous retching sounds coming from behind it. She prayed he’d made it to the bowl. Opening the hallway cupboard, Hermione extracted some blankets, piling them onto the sofa to create a makeshift bed before going into her bedroom to fetch one of her pillows for him. 
听到浴室的门关上了，赫敏站了起来，对后面传来的不祥的干呕声感到畏缩。她祈祷他能活到碗里。赫敏打开走廊的橱柜，拿出一些毯子，堆在沙发上，做成一张临时的床，然后进卧室给他拿了一个枕头。

Ron emerged from the bathroom twenty minutes later looking grey, exhausted and slightly more sober. Hermione guided him gently back to the sofa.
二十分钟后，罗恩从浴室里出来，脸色灰暗，疲惫不堪，稍微清醒了一些。赫敏轻轻地把他带回沙发上。

“You stay here,” she said, her voice soft. “Sleep it off.”
“你留在这里，”她说，声音轻柔。“睡一觉。”

Mumbling incoherently, Ron collapsed onto the sofa face first, not bothering to remove his shoes. Sighing, Hermione went into the kitchen and filled a glass of water from the tap for him. Setting it beside him on the coffee table, she glanced at his prone form, now curled up on its side, and gently swept some of his hair from his face. 
罗恩语无伦次地喃喃自语，脸先瘫倒在沙发上，懒得脱鞋。赫敏叹了口气，走进厨房，从水龙头里给他倒了一杯水。她把它放在他旁边的咖啡桌上，瞥了一眼他俯卧的身影，现在蜷缩在一边，轻轻地扫了他脸上的一些头发。

“You’re a bloody idiot sometimes, Ron.”
“你有时候是个的白痴，罗恩。”

He mumbled something incomprehensible about spiders, snakes and Neville, his forehead creasing as he pulled his head away from her hand. 
他喃喃自语着一些关于蜘蛛、蛇和纳威的难以理解的话，当他把头从她的手上拉开时，他的额头皱了起来。

Retreating to her bedroom, Hermione closed the door and turned to look at the dittany plant. Too busy living in other people’s lives these days , Ron’s words echoed in her head. No time for your own . Was that true? Was that what she was really doing? Hermione frowned at the dittany, gnawing at her lip. How much credit was she really willing to give to the wisdom of a drunk Ron Weasley?
回到卧室，赫敏关上门，转身看向那棵白菊。 这些天忙于过别人的生活，罗恩的话在她的脑海中回荡。 没有时间属于你自己的。这是真的吗？那是她真正在做的事情吗？赫敏皱着眉头看着这个小家伙，啃咬着她的嘴唇。她真的愿意把多少功劳归于一个喝醉了的罗恩·韦斯莱的智慧呢？

Hermione withdrew her pyjamas from under her pillow and pulled back her bedsheet forcefully. She’d take the plant to Lucius tomorrow. It was what she wanted to do. 
赫敏从枕头下抽出睡衣，用力拉开床单。她明天会把植物带到卢修斯那里。这就是她想做的。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Seriously everyone THANK YOU! I haven't responded to every comment on the last chapter but I appreciate every single one of them. Glad the appreciation for a bit of desk sex and praise is widespread, too. The good the world needs.
真的，大家谢谢你们！我没有回复上一章的每一条评论，但我感谢他们中的每一位。很高兴对一点桌面性爱和赞美的赞赏也很普遍。世界需要的美好。

Chapter 26
第二十六章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione returns to the manor to give Lucius his dittany and gets an unexpected dinner invitation
赫敏回到庄园，把他的小酒杯交给卢修斯，并收到了一份意想不到的晚餐邀请

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾July 8th
7月8日

When Hermione couldn’t find Lucius in the library, didn’t spy him in the grounds through the large window in the corridor and found his study completely empty, she decided she’d have to try the greenhouse. Perfect really , she thought, adjusting the dittany in her arms. 
当赫敏在图书馆找不到卢修斯，没有通过走廊的大窗户在院子里偷看他，发现他的书房完全空无一人时，她决定她必须试试温室。 真的完美，她想着，调整着怀里的。

As Hermione strolled down the familiar corridor that ran outside his office, the sound of a gentle cough stopped her in her tracks. Knowing exactly where the cough had come from, she turned to look at the space where she knew Sabine’s portrait to be and found the woman looking at her expectantly. 
当赫敏漫步在办公室外熟悉的走廊上时，一阵轻柔的咳嗽声让她停下了脚步。她确切地知道咳嗽是从哪里来的，她转头看向她知道萨宾娜画像所在的空间，发现那个女人正期待地看着她。

“Hermione Granger,” Sabine said, stepping forward towards her frame. “It’s been a while since our last conversation.”
“赫敏·格兰杰，”萨宾说，一边向前迈步走向她的身躯。“距离我们上次谈话已经有一段时间了。”

“Hello, Sabine,” said Hermione with a smile. “How are you?”
“你好，萨宾，”赫敏笑着说。“你好吗？”

“You’ve learned my name, have you?” asked Sabine, giving Hermione an appraising look. 
“你知道我的名字了，对吧？”萨宾问道，赞赏地看了赫敏一眼。

“It’s only polite,” Hermione replied with a shrug. “Isn’t it?”
“这只是礼貌而已，”赫敏耸耸肩回答。“不是吗？”

Sabine hummed, absentmindedly combing her fingers through the long tresses that sat over her shoulders. “I suppose I prefer Sabine to Mrs Malfoy,” she said, her nose wrinkling in distaste. “Yes, you may use it.” 
Sabine哼着歌，心不在焉地用手指梳理着披在肩膀上的长发。“我想我更喜欢萨宾而不是马尔福夫人，”她说，她的鼻子不悦地皱了起来。“是的，你可以用它。”

“Thank you,” Hermione said graciously. “And how are you?”
“谢谢你，”赫敏亲切地说。“你好吗？”

Sabine’s eyes refocused on Hermione and she tilted her head curiously when she saw the potted dittany. “I’m wondering why you’re carting a pot of dirt around this manor.”
萨宾的眼睛重新聚焦在赫敏身上，当她看到那盆栽白鹭时，她好奇地歪了歪头。“我想知道你为什么要在这个庄园周围运一罐泥土。”

“Oh, it’s a dittany plant.” Hermione held it out so that Sabine could better see the flash of colour from the plant’s leaves. “It’s a gift for Lucius.”
“哦，这是一株白菜。”赫敏把它拿出来，这样萨宾就能更好地看到植物叶子上闪现的色彩。“这是送给卢修斯的礼物。”

Sabine was in the process of leaning forward to peer distastefully down at the plant but seemed to freeze when Hermione said ‘Lucius’, her eyes flicking up. “Taking it to Lucius ,” Sabine said with a single nod as a smile slowly crept its way onto her face. “Are you really?” 
萨宾正准备向前倾身，不愉快地低头看着那棵植物，但当赫敏说出“卢修斯”时，她似乎僵住了，她的眼睛眨了眨。“把它交给卢修斯，”萨宾娜点头说，笑容慢慢地爬上了她的脸。“你真的吗？”

Feeling unaccountably exposed, Hermione drew the plant back towards herself, hugging it to her middle. “Yes. He’s not in his study so I’m going down to the greenhouses. I’m guessing that’s where he is?”
赫敏莫名其烦地感到自己暴露了，她把植物拉回自己身边，把它抱在了中间。“是的。他不在书房里，所以我要去温室。我猜他就在那儿？

“Oh, I have no idea, dear,” Sabine said, the smile—wider than ever and beginning to grate on Hermione—still on her face. “You’d know better than I. All I can tell you is that he passed here around an hour ago.”
“哦，我不知道，亲爱的，”萨宾说，她的脸上仍然露出笑容——比以往任何时候都更灿烂，开始对赫敏产生怨恨。“你比我更清楚。我只能告诉你，他大约一个小时前经过这里。

“Alright, well…” Hermione shifted from foot to foot, lifting the plant again slightly as though to explain her eagerness to leave. “I’ll just go and find him then. Thanks, Sabine.”
“好吧，好吧......”赫敏从一只脚挪到另一只脚，再次轻轻地抬起植物，仿佛在解释她急于离开的原因。“那我就去找他。谢谢，Sabine。

“He was in an unusually genial mood when he passed me,” Sabine called at Hermione’s retreating back, a smile audible in her voice. “Even said ‘hello’. I’m sure you’ll find him receptive to your visit.”
“他经过我的时候，心情异常和蔼可亲，”萨宾对着赫敏后退的背影喊道，她的声音里带着微笑。“甚至说了'你好'。我相信你会发现他很愿意接受你的来访。

For once, Hermione rather thought she understood what Lucius had meant when he’d said guests to the manor had found Sabine overly forward—her smile had been too knowing by half. 
这一次，赫敏宁愿以为她明白了卢修斯说庄园的客人发现萨宾过于前卫时的意思——她的笑容已经太清楚了。

As she’d expected, Hermione found Lucius in the greenhouse at his usual workstation. Not wishing to take him by surprise, she tried to make a reasonably large amount of noise as she approached and he turned to face her as she pushed a curtain-like leaf out of her path. 
正如她所料，赫敏在温室里找到了卢修斯，在他平常的工作站上。不想让他措手不及，她试图在靠近时发出相当大的声音，当她把一片窗帘状的叶子推开时，他转过身来面对她。

On meeting his eyes, a tight short-of-breath feeling developed in her chest, making a short “hi” the only thing she felt confident saying. Ludicrous. 
在与他的眼睛对上时，她的胸口产生了一种紧绷的呼吸急促感，使短促的“嗨”成为她唯一有信心说的话。荒唐的。

“Hermione,” he said, the small smile he offered her helping to subdue the panic elicited by his obvious surprise at seeing her, “you’re here.” His eyes drifted down to the pot she was holding and his smile slipped into a grimace of bemusement. “With a terribly sad looking plant.” 
“赫敏，”他说，他向她微微一笑，帮助平息了他看到她时明显的惊讶所引起的恐慌，“你在这儿。他的目光飘向她手里的罐子，他的笑容滑落成了困惑的鬼脸。“长得可怕可悲。”

“It’s for you,” Hermione said, stepping forward and holding it out.
“这是给你的，”赫敏说，走上前去，把它伸出来。

“For me.” Lucius’ eyes flicked up to hers and he raised an eyebrow but didn’t move forward, patently unwilling to claim ownership of something he found so underwhelming.
“对我来说。”卢修斯的眼睛瞥向她，他扬起眉毛，但没有向前移动，显然不愿意声称拥有他认为如此平淡无奇的东西。

“Yes.” Hermione nodded fervently. “It’s dittany. Well, a cutting. You’ll have to help it flourish here before it can be planted outside. I brought some seeds that you can plant next year too.”
“是的。”赫敏热切地点点头。“这太麻烦了。嗯，剪报。在它被种植在室外之前，你得帮助它在这里茁壮成长。我带来了一些种子，你明年也可以种下。

A look of understanding flashed over his face and he crossed his arms over his chest. “Dittany,” he said flatly. She nodded again, smiling encouragingly as though it’d help him get her point. “A healing plant. You brought me a healing plant. To help it… flourish .”
他的脸上闪过理解的神情，双臂交叉在胸前。“Dittany，”他平淡地说。她再次点头，露出鼓励的微笑，仿佛这会帮助他明白她的意思。“一种治愈的植物。你给我带来了一株治愈植物。为了帮助它...繁荣。

“That’s right,” she said cheerily.
“没错，”她高兴地说。

There was a pause in which Lucius drummed his fingers against his biceps, his eyes travelling between the plant and her face. “How embarrassingly sentimental of you,” he finally said.
停顿了一下，卢修斯用手指敲打着他的二头肌，他的眼睛在植物和她的脸之间来回穿梭。“你多愁善感真尴尬，”他终于说。

Hermione laughed delightedly, rolling up onto the balls of her feet and holding the pot closer to her chest as he watched her bemusedly. “I knew you’d say that,” she crowed, approaching his workstation and setting the dittany down carefully to stand on the opposite side of the table to him. “Or something like that anyway. Thank you for never disappointing me.”
赫敏高兴地笑了起来，滚到她的脚掌上，把罐子举得更靠近她的胸口，他困惑地看着她。“我就知道你会这么说，”她叫道，走近他的工作台，小心翼翼地放下小桌子，站在桌子对面。“或者反正类似的东西。谢谢你从来没有让我失望。

He raised his eyebrows at her and Hermione’s cheeks grew warm when she re-considered her own words. “You know I endeavour to please,” he said, suggestion laced through the words.
他朝她扬起眉毛，赫敏的脸颊在重新考虑自己的话时变得温暖起来。“你知道我努力取悦你，”他说，话语中夹杂着暗示。

“Yes, well.” Hermione looked down under the pretence of inspecting the dittany to hide what she was sure were fairly pink cheeks. “I think this will please Draco. Having dittany at his disposal will be essential if he wants to expand his potions repertoire for St. Mungo’s.”
“是的，好吧。”赫敏低头看了看，假装检查了一下那些小鸡巴，以掩盖她确信是相当粉红色的脸颊。“我觉得这会让德拉科高兴。如果他想为圣芒戈扩大他的魔药库，那么拥有他可以使用的 dittany 是必不可少的。

“And where did you get it?” Lucius asked, reaching out to rub his thumb gently over one of the velvety leaves.
“你从哪里弄来的？”卢修斯问道，伸出拇指轻轻地在一片天鹅绒般的叶子上摩擦。

“The Hogwarts greenhouses.”
“霍格沃茨的温室。”

He withdrew his hand and gave the plant an appraising look. “Mr Longbottom, then?” he asked, glancing up at her from under his brows.
他收回手，赞赏地看了一眼那棵植物。“那么，隆巴顿先生呢？”他问道，从眉毛下抬头瞥了她一眼。

“That’s right.”
“没错。”

“And he is aware of its…intended recipient?”
“他知道它......预期的接收者？

“He is,” Hermione said, a small smile on her face. Leaving off Neville’s not-insignificant reluctance to give the plant to Lucius was an easy thing to do. Lucius looked down at the plant thoughtfully and nodded once. 
“他是，”赫敏说，脸上露出一丝微笑。不让纳威不情愿地把植物送给卢修斯是一件容易的事。卢修斯若有所思地低头看着这棵植物，点了点头。

“He also gave me some books he thought you might like,” Hermione offered, her doubt over whether or not he’d actually want them clear in her voice. “They’re fairly, er, basic but he seemed intent on it.”
“他还给了我一些他觉得你可能会喜欢的书，”赫敏提议道，她怀疑他是否真的想用她的声音把它们说清楚。“他们说得还算，呃，很基本，但他似乎是有意的。”

“Oh?” Lucius’ eyes flicked up from the plant again and he raised his head fully, his tone sharpening. “How basic?”
“哦？”卢修斯的眼睛再次从植物上抬起，他完全抬起头，语气变得尖锐起来。“有多基本？”

“Oh, you know,” Hermione said hurriedly, waving a dismissive hand. “Gwendock’s Common Greenhouse Gotchas, Herbology and the Seasons…” Hermione grew more quiet as Lucius arched an unamused brow and she mumbled, “Botanical Basics for Beginners…”
“哦，你知道的，”赫敏急忙说，不屑一顾地挥了挥手。“格温多克的常见温室陷阱、草药学和季节......”赫敏变得更加安静，卢修斯不高兴地扬起眉毛，她喃喃自语道，“初学者的植物学基础......”

“A list composed by a man hoping to idiot proof a greenhouse,” Lucius said, crossing his arms and narrowing his eyes. “Longbottom has turned into a surprisingly audacious young man, hasn’t he?”
“一个男人写的清单，希望能证明一个温室的白痴，”卢修斯说，交叉双臂，眯起眼睛。“隆巴顿已经变成了一个令人惊讶的大胆年轻人，不是吗？”

“He’s just trying to help.”
“他只是想帮忙。”

“I don’t think he’d be nearly as ‘helpful’ as he has been were I not confined to this manor.”
“如果我不局限在这个庄园里，我认为他不会像以前那样'乐于助人'。”

“You don’t have to take them Lucius,” Hermione said, rolling her eyes. 
“你不必带他们去，卢修斯，”赫敏说，翻了个白眼。

“No, I certainly don’t,” said Lucius sniffily. “In fact, I won’t.”
“不，我当然没有，”卢修斯轻描淡写地说。“事实上，我不会。”

“Maybe I’ll just leave them in case you change your mind, though.”
“不过，也许我会留下它们，以防你改变主意。”

“Maybe I’ll just burn them when I don’t.”
“也许我不会烧掉它们。”

“Don’t be such a child, Lucius.”
“别这么孩子，卢修斯。”

“A child is what I’d have to be in order to glean anything of value from those books.”
“我必须成为一个孩子，才能从那些书中收集到任何有价值的东西。”

"Surely you're now aware that it's never too late to learn." Hermione suspected that her smirk was teeth-grindingly superior but she was glad to have the immediate curl of Lucius' lip to prove it.
“你现在肯定知道，学习永远不会太晚。”赫敏怀疑她的笑容太优越了，但她很高兴卢修斯的嘴唇立即卷曲来证明这一点。

" You are very close to learning what happens when you sever the thread that is my last nerve, Hermione. Desist."
“赫敏，你很快就要知道了当你切断我最后的神经时会发生什么。停止。

Hermione snorted, stuck between amusement and exasperation. “Alright,” she said, holding up a hand in surrender, “let’s just…move on. No more talk of textbooks.” 
赫敏哼了一声，在逗乐和愤怒之间挣扎。“好吧，”她说，举起一只手投降，“我们就......冘。不要再谈论教科书了。

Lucius settled for a dignified, if slightly irritable, silence in which Hermione took the opportunity to eye the pots that he had been working with on her arrival. There were a large number of them of varying sizes, some empty and some containing plants with black stems bearing the weight of white, drooping flowers. 
卢修斯沉默了一会儿，虽然有点烦躁，但赫敏趁机盯着她到来时一直在处理的花盆。它们数量众多，大小不一，有些是空的，有些是植物，黑色的茎承受着白色下垂的花朵的重量。

“What are you doing anyway?” she asked.
“你到底在做什么？”

“Repotting Moly,” he replied, pulling an empty pot and a smaller but still-full pot towards himself. “Would you like to help?”
“给莫利换盆，”他回答道，把一个空罐子和一个更小但仍然装满的罐子拉向自己。“你愿意帮忙吗？”

“Help?” Hermione asked, her voice dripping with faux incredulity. “Did I just hear you say ‘help’? In your greenhouse?”
“救命？”赫敏问道，她的声音里带着假装的怀疑。“我刚才听到你说'救命'了吗？在你的温室里？

“And already I regret it,” he said with an exasperated sigh as he pulled an apron from under the workbench to hold it out to her. 
“我已经后悔了，”他恼怒地叹了口气，从工作台下面拉出一条围裙递给她。

“Another apron ?” Hermione exclaimed, lifting a hand to her chest in shock. “Lucius, are you just trying to make me forget the mucus attack from the last time?”
“另一条围裙？”赫敏惊呼道，震惊地将一只手举到她的胸前。“卢修斯，你只是想让我忘记上次的粘液发作吗？”

“It’s Draco’s,” Lucius said stiffly, refusing to hold it out to her any longer and dropping it onto the table with a thwap . “He’s started working here with me and he insisted on having one. You are as bad as each other.”
“这是德拉科的，”卢修斯僵硬地说，拒绝再把它递给她，砰地一声把它扔在桌子上。“他开始和我一起工作，他坚持要有一个。你们和彼此一样糟糕。

Hermione sauntered round the table to stand beside him, rising onto her tiptoes and lowering again as she picked up the apron. “I think that’s excellent,” she said, unfolding the apron to pull it over her head. 
赫敏绕着桌子走来走去，站在他身边，踮起脚尖，又放下了围裙。“我觉得这太好了，”她说，一边展开围裙，把它拉过头顶。

It wasn’t strictly her place to comment on his relationship with his son but she knew working with Lucius in the greenhouse was something that would please Draco. It was a breakthrough and she didn’t think there was anything wrong with voicing her approval of it. 
严格来说，这不是她评论他和他儿子的关系的地方，但她知道在温室里和卢修斯一起工作是让德拉科高兴的事情。这是一个突破，她认为表达她对此的赞同并没有什么错。

As she slid her hands under her hair to free it from the neck strap of the apron, Lucius stepped in behind her and lifted the waist straps which came down to her hips as it was slightly too large for her. 
当她把手滑到头发下面，想从围裙的颈带上解脱出来时，卢修斯走到她身后，掀开了一直到臀部的腰带，因为它对她来说有点太大了。

Holding still, Hermione felt him move slowly, deliberately, as he tied them, the backs of his knuckles brushing against her lower back. The fluttering that erupted in her lower stomach was frankly embarrassing. Bringing her hands up, she pressed the tips of her fingers against the surface of the workbench to steady herself and allowed her eyes to drop closed. Looping the straps around into a bow, Lucius finished it off with an unexpectedly sharp tug that made Hermione start, her eyes flying open. 
赫敏一动不动，感觉到他在绑住他们时缓慢地、刻意地移动，他的指关节后部擦过她的下背部。坦率地说，她下腹部爆发的颤动令人尴尬。她抬起双手，将指尖按在工作台表面以稳定自己，然后闭上眼睛。卢修斯把带子绕成一个蝴蝶结，用一个出乎意料的猛烈拉扯结束了它，这让赫敏吓了一跳，她的眼睛飞快地睁开了。

“You’ve gone very quiet all of a sudden,” he said, stepping back to his place beside her, his left hand drifting across her back as he went. Hermione didn’t need to look at him to know he was wearing a knowing smirk. 
“你突然变得非常安静，”他说，一边退到她身边的位置上，左手一边走一边滑过她的背。赫敏不需要看他就知道他带着会心的笑容。

“I thought you'd prefer it when I was quiet.”
“我以为你更喜欢我安静的时候。”

“Not always , as it happens,” he murmured, pulling some empty pots over the table to slide them towards her while ignoring her sidelong smile. 
“不总是这样，”他喃喃自语着，从桌子上拉出一些空罐子，让它们滑向她，同时无视她侧身的笑容。

They worked in companionable silence for a time, both occupied by their respective tasks. To her surprise, Hermione began to find the process somewhat soothing. She’d never seen Herbology as much more than an academic necessity at Hogwarts—a subject that it was good and sensible to do rather than one she especially enjoyed—but, as she repotted the black roots of the Moly, she realised how one could get lost in the physicality of it. 
他们默默地工作了一段时间，两人都忙于各自的任务。令她惊讶的是，赫敏开始发现这个过程有点舒缓。她从来没有把草药学看作是霍格沃茨的学术必需品——一门很好、很明智的学科，而不是她特别喜欢的学科——但是，当她把莫利的黑色根重新装上盆时，她意识到一个人怎么会迷失在它的物理性中。

Recalling her conversation with Neville, Hermione allowed her eyes to drift over to Malfoy and observed him taking great care with the delicate white flower of the plant, his hands speckled with earth. 
回想起她和纳威的谈话，赫敏让她的目光飘向马尔福，看着他非常小心地呵护着那朵娇嫩的白色花朵，他的手上沾满了泥土。

“Lucius,” she asked, pausing in her work, “do you like this? The gardening?”
“卢修斯，”她问道，停顿了一下她的工作，“你喜欢这个吗？园艺？

His hands stilled and he turned his head slightly to look at her out of the corner of his eyes, a small frown creasing his forehead. “What makes you ask that?”
他的手停了下来，微微转过头，用眼角的余光看着她，额头上皱起了小小的眉头。“你为什么这么问？”

Hermione shrugged. “Just wondering, I suppose.” When he raised a doubtful eyebrow she grinned sheepishly. “You’re not the most natural fit for working the earth.”
赫敏耸耸肩。“我想，只是想知道。”当他疑惑地扬起眉毛时，她害羞地咧嘴一笑。“你不是最适合在地球上工作的人。”

He sharply exhaled a laugh through his nose and brushed his hands together to wipe off some of the dirt. “Fair enough. I was driven to it by a desperation to do something, anything, connected to magic. That made me hate it for a time, actually, but now…well, I don’t dis like it.”
他从鼻子里猛地吐出一声笑声，然后用手拂去一些污垢。“很公平。我被一种绝望所驱使，想做一些事情，任何事情，与魔法有关。实际上，这让我有一段时间讨厌它，但现在......嗯，我不喜欢它。

“What do you like about it?”
“你喜欢它的什么地方？”

Lucius cleared his throat and leaned his hands against the workbench, head bent as he considered the plant in front of him. “It allows me to support Draco’s work, first and foremost. It makes me feel like there might, at least, be one worthwhile reason for him to remain in the manor beyond his misguided determination to keep an eye on me.”
卢修斯清了清嗓子，双手靠在工作台上，低着头，看着眼前的植物。“首先，它让我能够支持 Draco 的工作。这让我觉得，至少，除了他被误导的监视我的决心之外，他可能还有一个值得留在庄园的理由。

“Lucius—”
“卢修斯——”

“My mistakes dictated many years of his life, Hermione,” Lucius said with a sharp tone that warned her he would hear no further argument. “I’d rather that didn’t continue.”
“我的错误决定了他多年的生活，赫敏，”卢修斯用尖锐的语气说，警告她他不会再听到更多的争论了。“我宁愿这种情况不要继续下去。”

There was a brief silence in which Hermione fidgeted with her own fingers, eyes cast down. Draco remained in the manor because he loved his father, she knew, but also because he still considered it his home and, more than anything, he needed home. Lucius’ guilt-ridden but well-meaning attempts to push him out had probably done more harm than good. She only hoped that their newfound common ground in the greenhouse would take things back in the right direction.
在短暂的沉默中，赫敏用自己的手指坐立不安，眼睛垂下。德拉科留在庄园里是因为他爱他的父亲，她知道，但也因为他仍然认为这是他的家，最重要的是，他需要家。卢修斯充满罪恶但善意地试图将他赶出去，这可能弊大于利。她只希望他们在温室里新找到的共同点能把事情带回正确的方向。

“Besides that.” He cleared his throat. “The seasonal nature of it has helped make the passing of time in the manor feel less…gelatinous.” Lucius patted down some of the soil into the final Moly pot and lifted it across the workbench to sit it with the others. 
“除此之外。”他清了清嗓子。“它的季节性有助于让庄园里时间的流逝感觉不那么......凝胶状的。卢修斯将一些泥土拍入最后一个钼罐中，然后将其抬到工作台上，与其他人一起坐下。

Picking up a damp cloth from the table, he wiped his hands clean and dried them on a linen towel that hung on the side of the table. “And after so many years of watching my life crumble around me, it’s become soothing to me to finally see things grow steadily out of my efforts.”
他从桌子上拿起一块湿布，把双手擦干净，然后用挂在桌边的亚麻毛巾擦干。“在看着我的生活在我身边崩溃这么多年之后，终于看到我的努力使事情稳步发展，这让我感到欣慰。”

“That’s veering dangerously close to sentimentality,” Hermione said, a teasing smile rising to her face. “I wouldn’t deem it embarrassing, though.”
“那已经危险地接近多愁善感了，”赫敏说，脸上浮现出一个戏谑的笑容。“不过，我不会觉得这很尴尬。”

Slowly, Lucius turned to face her and crossed his arms, his lips pursed. “You’re very lucky I enjoy that smart little mouth of yours, I hope you know that.”
卢修斯慢慢地转过身来面对她，交叉双臂，抿起嘴唇。“你很幸运，我喜欢你那张聪明的小嘴，我希望你知道。”

Hermione’s smile widened and she inched closer to him, stopping when the tips of her scuffed white trainers were just shy of his shiny dragon skin Oxfords. “You’re very lucky I let you enjoy it,” she said, her voice soft and her face turned up to his. “I hope you know that .”
赫敏的笑容更灿烂了，她慢慢靠近他，当她磨损的白色运动鞋的尖端刚好接近他闪亮的龙皮牛津鞋时，她停了下来。“你很幸运，我让你享受它，”她说，她的声音柔和，她的脸转向他。“我希望你知道。”

Lucius exhaled a laugh through his nose as he raised a hand to her face, his fingers sliding around to curl at the nape of her neck while his thumb stroked the line of her jaw. Hermione kept her eyes fixed on his as he slid his hand around and, when the pad of his thumb brushed just under the curve of her bottom lip, warmth pooled in her belly. 
卢修斯从鼻子里吐出一声笑声，他抬起一只手放在她的脸上，他的手指滑来滑去，蜷曲在她的后颈上，同时他的拇指抚摸着她的下巴线条。赫敏的眼睛一直盯着他，他把手滑来滑去，当他的拇指腹刚好擦过她下唇的曲线时，温暖在她的肚子里积聚。

“I think we both know this is closer than entirely appropriate given where we are, Lucius,” Hermione said, her chiding tone somewhat undermined by its breathiness. 
“我想我们都知道，考虑到我们现在的位置，这比完全合适更接近，卢修斯，”赫敏说，她的责备语气被它的气息所削弱。

Lucius hummed, his eyes flicking upwards in an ‘I don’t particularly care right now’ roll. Hermione found it much easier to keep her hands to herself, all too aware that where he had cleaned his hands, hers were still covered in earth. Even if he was more fond of her now than he had been, Hermione got the distinct impression Lucius would not appreciate dirt on his white shirt.
卢修斯哼了一声，他的眼睛向上眨了眨，“我现在不是特别在乎”。赫敏发现把自己的手留给自己要容易得多，她太清楚了，他洗手的地方，她的手还被泥土覆盖着。即使他现在比以前更喜欢她，赫敏也明显感觉到卢修斯不会喜欢他白衬衫上的污垢。

She raised the offending hands up into his eyeline and wriggled her fingers, smiling fondly as he released her face and took a wary step back. 
她把冒犯的手举到他的视线里，扭动着手指，当他松开她的脸并小心翼翼地后退一步时，她深情地微笑着。

“I assume you didn’t come here today solely to torment me,” he said, reaching over to pick up the damp cloth and hand it to her. “Will you be working in the library?”
“我猜你今天来这里不仅仅是为了折磨我，”他说，伸手捡起湿布递给她。“你会在图书馆工作吗？”

Hermione nodded, scrubbing her hands assiduously. 
赫敏点点头，勤奋地搓搓着双手。

“Late?”
“迟到？”

“I imagine so,” Hermione said, an anticipatory squirming sensation accompanying the heat in her belly when she sensed where he was leading the conversation. “I have quite a lot I want to do.”
“我想是的，”赫敏说，当她感觉到他把话题引向哪里时，一种期待的蠕动感伴随着她肚子里的热度。“我有很多想做的事情。”

“Why don’t you join me in my study when you’re finished?” he suggested. It was a perfectly innocent invitation but Hermione didn’t miss the significance in his look. 
“你吃完了以后，为什么不和我一起去我的书房呢？”这是一个完全无辜的邀请，但赫敏并没有错过他眼神中的意义。

“I can do that.”
“我能做到。”

Hermione sat back in her seat and stretched out her hand with a satisfied sigh, surveying the work she’d gotten through over the course of the afternoon and evening.
赫敏坐回座位上，伸出手，满意地叹了口气，审视着她下午和晚上所做的工作。

Nothing pleased her quite as much as rolls of ink-covered parchment and a few uninterrupted hours had been all she’d really needed to make good progress. With her interviews with Lucius close to completion, a structure in place and a start made, she thought she might finally be at the point of owling out proposals.
没有什么比一卷沾满墨水的羊皮纸和几个不间断的小时更让她高兴的了，这正是她取得良好进展真正需要的全部。随着她对 Lucius 的采访接近完成，结构就位并开始，她认为她可能终于到了提出提案的地步。

Hermione was just reaching out to pick her quill up from the table to carry on with her writing when Letty appeared with a crack by her elbow. As the elf descended into a deep curtsey, Hermione smiled kindly. 
赫敏正伸手从桌子上拿起她的羽毛笔继续写作，这时莱蒂的胳膊肘出现了。当精灵深深地行完屈膝礼时，赫敏和蔼地笑了笑。

“Letty, what can I do for you?”
“莱蒂，我能为你做些什么？”

“Letty has been asked to bring Miss to dinner,” the house elf squeaked, rising from her curtsey with an authoritative nod that indicated she had been told not to take ‘no’ for an answer.
“莱蒂被要求带小姐去吃晚饭，”家养小精灵吱吱作响，从屈膝礼中站起来，权威地点头，表明她被告知不要把“不”当作答案。

“Bring me to…dinner?” Hermione asked, turning more fully in her seat to face Letty properly. “I think there’s been a mistake Letty, I didn’t agree to –”
“带我去......晚餐？赫敏问道，在座位上更充分地转过身来，好好面对莱蒂。“我觉得有个错误，莱蒂，我不同意——”

“No mistake, miss.” Letty shook her head vigorously, her ears flapping. “The family is waiting.”
“没错，小姐。”莱蒂用力摇头，耳朵拍打着。“家人在等。”

“The family ?” Hermione exclaimed, her mouth suddenly losing all moisture. “Letty, I really don’t think –”
“那家人？”赫敏惊呼道，她的嘴巴突然失去了所有的水分。“莱蒂，我真的不觉得——”

Clearly feeling she’d adequately explained herself, Letty reached out and took Hermione’s wrist. With astonishing strength, the elf pulled Hermione out of her seat and towards the door. Struggling, Hermione finally wrenched her wrist free as they got to the library threshold. 
显然，她觉得自己已经充分地解释了自己，于是伸手抓住了赫敏的手腕。小精灵以惊人的力量，把赫敏从座位上拉了起来，朝门口走去。赫敏挣扎着，终于在他们走到图书馆的门槛时挣脱了她的手腕。

“Letty!” she exclaimed, stopping just short of stamping her foot. “That’s quite enough. Please.”
“莱蒂！” 她喊道，刚要跺脚就停了下来。“这就够了。拜托了。

The elf turned, her eyes wide and anxious. “Miss is resisting but Letty was told. Miss is to eat with the family and Letty is to get miss.”
妖精转过身来，睁大了眼睛，焦急不安。“小姐在反抗，但莱蒂被告知了。小姐要和家人一起吃饭，莱蒂要找小姐。

Stumped, Hermione sighed and took in Letty’s increasingly fretful face. She hadn’t been invited to dinner and she hadn’t asked to attend. Surely there had to be some kind of mistake. The idea of showing up at the Malfoy’s dining room, unexpected and unwanted, was nothing short of mortifying. 
赫敏被难住了，叹了口气，看着莱蒂越来越烦躁的脸。她没有被邀请参加晚宴，也没有要求参加。肯定有某种错误。出现在马尔福家的餐厅，出乎意料，不受欢迎，简直令人羞愧。

For one thing, Hermione thought with a glance down at her shorts and peasant blouse, she wasn’t really dressed for the kinds of dinners she assumed the Malfoys had. A banquet was unlikely but somehow Hermione found it hard to believe that they’d have microwave meals on their laps with a book balanced on the arm of the sofa like she was planning to do. 
首先，赫敏低头看了一眼她的短裤和农民衬衫，心想，她并没有真正穿上她以为马尔福家吃的那种晚饭。宴会不太可能，但不知何故，赫敏发现很难相信他们会像她打算的那样，把一本书放在膝盖上吃微波炉饭菜。

Clearly, however, based on Letty’s resolute insistence, someone had decided she ought to join them. As mad as that seemed. Sighing, her shoulders drooping in defeat, Hermione stepped towards Letty. “Alright, Letty, show me the way. I don’t want to be late.”
然而，显然，根据莱蒂的坚决坚持，有人决定她应该加入他们。尽管这看起来很疯狂。赫敏叹了口气，挫败地垂下了肩膀，向莱蒂走去。“好了，莱蒂，给我带路。我不想迟到。

Her lined face cracking into a beaming, relieved smile, Letty turned with a beckoning hand and led Hermione out of the library and through some less familiar hallways of the manor. 
莱蒂的脸上露出灿烂的、如释重负的笑容，她转过身来，用一只招手的手，领着赫敏走出了图书馆，穿过了庄园里一些不太熟悉的走廊。

The walk to the dining room was long. Oddly so. It struck Hermione that they appeared to be keeping to the edges of the house and while she wouldn't dare to presume that she knew more about the layout of the manor better than the house elf that worked in it, she couldn't help but notice that it was almost ten minutes later that they arrived at the set of double doors leading to the dining room. 
到餐厅的路很长。奇怪的是。赫敏突然发现，他们似乎一直躲在房子的边缘，虽然她不敢假设她比在庄园里工作的家养小精灵更了解庄园的布局，但她还是忍不住注意到，差不多十分钟后，他们才来到通往餐厅的那组双开门前。

The doors were already open and Letty marched in first, leaving Hermione to peer around the doorframe after her. She spied a long table at which Draco, Lucius and Astoria were already seated. 
门已经开着，莱蒂先走了进来，留下赫敏在她身后从门框上偷看。她瞥见一张长桌，德拉科、卢修斯和阿斯托利亚已经坐在那里。

“Hermione Granger is here,” said Letty proudly, gesturing to the doorway where Hermione continued to linger, only half of her body in view. The Malfoys all turned to look at her and Hermione involuntarily gulped. 
“赫敏·格兰杰来了，”莱蒂自豪地说，指着赫敏继续徘徊的门口，只看到了她身体的一半。马尔福一家都转头看向她，赫敏不由自主地咽了口口水。

They made for a fairly intimidating sight at their beautifully laid dinner table, all nicely dressed and straight-backed. Lucius and Draco were placed at either end of the table whilst Astoria was at one side between them, facing towards the door and Hermione. 
他们在摆放精美的餐桌上显得相当吓人，所有人都穿着得体，背挺挺的。卢修斯和德拉科被放在桌子的两端，而阿斯托利亚在他们之间的一侧，面向门和赫敏。

“For Merlin’s sake, Granger, get in here. We won’t bite,” Draco snapped, glaring at her from his seat at the end of the table. “Although your dawdling has left me famished, mind, so maybe I shouldn’t make any promises,” he added with an audible mutter.
“看在梅林的份上，格兰杰，进来吧。我们不会咬人的，“德拉科厉声说，从桌子尽头的座位上瞪着她。“虽然你的拖延让我感到饥饿，但请注意，所以也许我不应该做出任何承诺，”他喃喃自语着补充道。

Lucius’ head whipped round at the other end of the table and he fixed his son with a stern look. “ Manners , Draco.” 
卢修斯在桌子的另一端转了转头，用严厉的眼神盯着他的儿子。“礼仪，德拉科。”

Expression no less stern, he turned back to Hermione. “But, yes, do try to pick up the pace, Hermione. The sun is close to setting." Lowering his gaze, Lucius unfolded the napkin that had been arranged elaborately on his plate and placed it carefully across his lap. “And I’m sure you have far more interesting things to do with your night.”
他的表情同样严厉，转身看向赫敏。“但是，是的，试着加快步伐，赫敏。太阳快落山了。卢修斯低下头，展开盘子里精心摆放的餐巾，小心翼翼地放在膝盖上。“而且我敢肯定，你的夜晚还有更多有趣的事情要做。”

Draco shot a questioning glance at his father who ignored it in favour of neatening the arrangement of his cutlery. Draco then tried Astoria with a ‘did you hear him?’ look but found his wife was too busy directing an encouraging smile at Hermione to notice him. 
德拉科质疑地瞥了他父亲一眼，他没有理会，反而把他的餐具整理好了。然后德拉科用“你听到他了吗”的眼神试探阿斯托利亚，但发现他的妻子正忙着对赫敏露出鼓励的微笑，而没有注意到他。

“Don’t worry about them, Hermione,” she said gently. “Come in, please. We’re having salmon.”
“别担心他们，赫敏，”她温柔地说。“请进来。我们有鲑鱼。

Like a wild animal being coaxed from a safe hiding space, Hermione fully stepped into the doorway and slowly entered the room. She did like salmon. The question was, did she like it enough to go through whatever weird dynamic this meal was going to involve? She liked all of these people individually – in vastly different ways, admittedly – but together? Well, that was an unpredictable mix. 
就像一只野生动物被哄出安全的藏身处一样，赫敏完全踏进了门口，缓缓地走进了房间。她确实喜欢鲑鱼。问题是，她是否足够喜欢这顿饭，以至于经历了这顿饭将涉及的任何奇怪动态？她喜欢所有这些人——诚然，她喜欢的方式大不相同——但在一起呢？嗯，这是一个不可预测的组合。

Reaching the empty seat across from Astoria that was clearly intended for her, Hermione risked a glance at Lucius and met his eyes. He slowly raised his eyebrows and lowered his gaze to the seat, directing her wordlessly. If he was at all perturbed by the turn of events, he didn’t show it. Trying to take comfort in this, Hermione lowered herself into her seat and pulled her napkin down to lay it across her lap.
赫敏走到阿斯托利亚对面显然是给她准备的空座位上，冒险地瞥了卢修斯一眼，与他的眼睛对上了。他慢慢地扬起眉毛，低头看向座位，一言不发地引导着她。如果他对事态的转变感到不安，他并没有表现出来。赫敏试图从中得到安慰，她把自己放到座位上，把餐巾纸拉下来放在腿上。

“I hope you don’t mind us wrenching you away from your work, Hermione,” Astoria said, arranging her own napkin. “Only it’s getting late and we thought it unlikely you’d taken time to eat.”
“我希望你不介意我们把你从工作中赶走，赫敏，”阿斯托利亚说，整理了一下自己的餐巾纸。“只是天色已晚，我们认为你不太可能花时间吃饭。”

With a mildly embarrassed smile, Hermione glanced around the table and swallowed her natural urge to snap that she was perfectly capable of taking care of herself. It was kindness, they were being kind. 
赫敏略带尴尬地笑了笑，环顾了一下桌子，忍住了她天生的冲动，想啪地说她完全有能力照顾好自己。这是善良，他们就是善良。

“You’re right,” she said. “I hadn’t. This is…very kind, Astoria.” Hermione cleared her throat, her gaze drifting over to Lucius of its own accord to find him watching her with an unreadable expression. “Thank you.” 
“你说得对，”她说。“我没有。这是。。。非常善良，阿斯托利亚。赫敏清了清嗓子，她的目光不由自主地飘向卢修斯，发现他正用一种难以捉摸的表情看着她。“谢谢你。”

“Don’t be offended by how stilted she sounds, dear,” Draco drawled in a bored tone to Astoria. “Granger struggles with accepting nice things.” On seeing Hermione’s resentful glare, Draco rolled his eyes and added, “Need I remind you of your protestations about the library?”
“别被她听起来多么生硬而生气，亲爱的，”德拉科用无聊的语气对阿斯托利亚说。“格兰杰很难接受美好的事物。”看到赫敏不满的目光，德拉科翻了个白眼，补充道，“我需要提醒你关于图书馆的抗议吗？

“That’s one example,” Hermione said sniffily. “Hardly enough evidence to support your accusation.”
“这是一个例子，”赫敏轻蔑地说。“几乎没有足够的证据来支持你的指控。”

“Yes, well, you’re a Gryffindor aren’t you?” Draco asked, shrugging and reaching out to take a sip of his wine. “Terribly martyrish, the lot of you. You’ll never admit it, I’m sure, but you’d have gotten some kind of perverse kick out of us leaving you to starve up there.”
“是的，嗯，你是格兰芬多学生，不是吗？”德拉科问道，耸耸肩，伸手抿了一口他的酒。“可怕的殉道者，你们中的很多人。我敢肯定，你永远不会承认，但你会从我们这里得到某种反常的踢，让你在那儿挨饿。

Before Hermione could snap at Draco, Astoria spoke up, her voice slightly raised to cut off the argument she obviously sensed was brewing. 
在赫敏对德拉科大发雷霆之前，阿斯托利亚开口了，她的声音微微提高，打断了她显然感觉到正在酝酿的争论。

“And how is your work going, Hermione?” Her tone was polite but her pointed look at Draco reminded Hermione quite strongly of Mrs Weasley when she was attempting to quell one of her husband’s more long-winded effusions about Muggle technology.
“那你的工作进展如何，赫敏？”她的语气很有礼貌，但她尖锐的眼神让赫敏强烈地想起了韦斯莱夫人，当时她正试图平息她丈夫对麻瓜技术的啰嗦喋喳喋。

At that moment, the very fine but empty china plate in front of Hermione emitted a small ting that made her flinch and look down sharply. When she did, Hermione was greeted by the welcome sight of steaming hot seared salmon mounted on a mound of lemon risotto. Her stomach clenched and growled with sudden longing and she leaned forward to inhale the delicious smell. A meal wouldn’t be so bad. Better than her microwavable cottage pie she could grudgingly admit.
就在那一刻，赫敏面前那个非常细腻却空空如也的瓷盘发出了一声细小的叮叮当当，让她畏缩了一下，猛地低下头。当她这样做时，赫敏受到了欢迎的景象，热气腾腾的烤鲑鱼放在一堆柠檬烩饭上。她的肚子紧缩着，突然发出渴望的咆哮，她向前倾身，吸入了美味的气味。一顿饭不会那么糟糕。她可以勉强承认，这比她那可微波炉吃的小屋馅饼要好。

“It’s going well, I think,” Hermione finally replied, picking up her cutlery just after the Malfoys had done the same. “I’d gone into the whole thing with a very solid view of how I was going to do things but that’s changed over recent months. Mostly thanks to my interviews with Draco and Lucius.” Hermione looked up from her dinner to give them both grateful smiles. 
“我觉得进展顺利，”赫敏终于回答道，在马尔福夫妇做完同样的事情后，她拿起了她的餐具。“我对自己将如何做事有一个非常扎实的看法，但最近几个月情况发生了变化。这主要归功于我对 Draco 和 Lucius 的采访。赫敏从晚餐中抬起头来，对他们俩都露出感激的微笑。

“How so?” Astoria asked, buttering a piece of bread that had appeared on her side plate, her eyes bright and interestedly fixed on Hermione. 
“怎么会这样？”阿斯托利亚问道，一边在她侧盘上的一块面包上涂上黄油，她的眼睛明亮而感兴趣地盯着赫敏。

“Oh.” Hermione hurriedly chewed and swallowed the salmon she’d just placed in her mouth so that she wasn’t leaving too long a silence, ignoring the way it burned the roof of her mouth. “Well, initially I’d just planned to have a chapter dedicated to each interview but recently I’ve decided it might be nice to take a more…patchwork approach. I think I’m going to make it a progression through time—you know, first war, through the intervening period and into the second—and weave the various perspectives through it. A sort of journey through time using many eyes, if that makes sense.”
“哦。”赫敏急忙咀嚼并吞下了她刚刚放进嘴里的鲑鱼，这样她就不会沉默太久，无视它烧焦她上颚的方式。“嗯，最初我只是计划用一章专门介绍每次采访，但最近我决定多花点时间可能会更好......拼凑方法。我想我会让它随着时间的推移——你知道的，第一次战争，穿过中间的时期，然后进入第二次——并通过它编织各种观点。一种用许多人的眼睛穿越时间的旅程，如果这有意义的话。

“That sounds interesting”, said Astoria with a generous smile and a glance at Draco. “Doesn’t it, Draco?”
“听起来很有趣，”阿斯托利亚说，带着慷慨的微笑，看了德拉科一眼。“不是吗，德拉科？”

Draco hummed his agreement. “Try to use my words over Potter’s wherever you can, Granger; I’m fairly certain that I’m the more insightful of the two of us. Oh, and if you dare to draw any kind of parallel between myself and Weasley – any Weasley – I’m afraid I’ll never talk to you again.”
德拉科哼着赞同的歌。“只要你能用，就尽量用我的话而不是波特的话，格兰杰;我相当确定我是我们两个人中更有洞察力的那个。哦，如果你敢把我和韦斯莱——任何韦斯莱——相提并论——恐怕我再也不会和你说话了。

Hermione laughed and took a drink of her wine. “Mm, I’ll try to avoid it but you’re all really just so similar.” Draco shot her a narrow-eyed sneer, his mouthful of risotto rendering him unable to speak, and Hermione grinned, relaxing infinitesimally. “You might be glad to know that I’m finally ready to shop it around as you were pushing me to do.”
赫敏笑了起来，喝了一口她的酒。“嗯，我会尽量避免它，但你们真的都太相似了。”德拉科眯起眼睛冷笑，他那满嘴的意大利调味饭让他说不出话来，赫敏咧嘴一笑，无限放松。“你可能会很高兴知道我终于准备好了，就像你催促我做的那样。”

“Finally!" Draco exclaimed. “Let us know if we can help; we’d be glad to look up some old contacts, isn’t that right, father?”
“终于！”德拉科惊呼道。“如果我们能帮忙，请告诉我们;我们很乐意查阅一些旧的联系方式，不是吗，爸爸？

“Certainly,” Lucius said. His voice was light but Hermione thought his face looked somewhat tight, like the idea of reaching out to any of his old contacts was less than appealing to him. That wasn't entirely surprising.
“当然，”卢修斯说。他的声音很轻，但赫敏觉得他的脸看起来有些紧绷，就像联系他的任何旧朋友的想法对他来说都没什么吸引力。这并不完全令人惊讶。

Before Hermione could assure both of them that, while the offer was kind, it really wouldn’t be necessary, Lucius turned his gaze to her fully and changed the subject entirely. “What do you think of the wine, Hermione?”
在赫敏向他们俩保证，虽然这个提议是善意的，但真的没有必要之前，卢修斯将目光完全转向她，完全改变了话题。“你觉得这酒怎么样，赫敏？”

Raising her eyebrows at the unexpected question, Hermione looked down into the glass she was holding, realising she hadn’t really thought about it. “It’s good, I think,” she said, pausing to take a more careful experimental sip. “I like it. Very dry. I don’t think I’ve ever had anything like it before.”
赫敏对这个出乎意料的问题扬起眉毛，低头看向她手里的玻璃杯，意识到她并没有真正考虑过这个问题。“我觉得这很好，”她说，停下来更仔细地试探性地啜了一口。“我喜欢它。 非常干燥。我认为我以前从未有过这样的事情。

“It’s a Riesling,” he said, meeting her eyes with a triumphant undertone to his voice. “That kind you so detest.” 
“这是雷司令，”他说，与她的眼睛对上，他的声音里带着胜利的意味。“你真讨厌那种。”

Hermione huffed out a laugh and placed her glass back on the table. “I should have known. Alright then, you were right; it was just that I hadn’t tried the right ones. You’re going to be insufferable now, aren’t you?”
赫敏大笑起来，把杯子放回桌子上。“我早该知道的。好吧，你是对的;只是我没有尝试正确的方法。你现在要忍受了，不是吗？

“No more than usual,” Lucius said, setting his own glass down, eyes flicking up to meet hers. “Certainly no more than you.”
“不会比平时更多，”卢修斯说，放下自己的酒杯，眼睛眨了眨，与她的对视。“当然不会比你多。”

“I doubt that somehow.”
“我不知何故怀疑这一点。”

Lucius’ responding smile was smug but he didn’t say anything more, simply taking a bite of salmon and lifting one shoulder. 
卢修斯的笑容得意洋洋，但他没有再说什么，只是咬了一口鲑鱼，抬起了一只肩膀。

Suddenly aware of the depth of the silence from the other part of the dinner table, Hermione turned her head to see Draco sitting with his fork halfway to his open mouth while Astoria, head bent, smiled demurely down at her plate. 
赫敏突然意识到餐桌另一边的沉默有多深，她转过头来，看到德拉科坐着，叉子半开着，而阿斯托利亚则低着头，对着她的盘子闷闷不乐地笑了笑。

Cheeks pinkening, Hermione cleared her throat and directed a strained smile at Draco and Astoria. “Malfoy, I forgot to tell you,” she said, her voice sounding awfully loud to her own ears in the large dining room. “I brought you a dittany cutting today.”
脸颊泛红，赫敏清了清嗓子，对德拉科和阿斯托利亚露出一个紧张的笑容。“马尔福，我忘了告诉你，”她说，她的声音在大餐厅里听起来非常响亮。“我今天给你带来了一个 dittany 剪发。”

With a lingering, scrutinising look at his father, Draco turned his gaze to her, the faint remainder of a frown visible between his brows. “Very generous of you I dare say, Granger. Where did you come by that?”
德拉科用一种挥之不去的、审视的眼神看着他父亲，将目光转向她，在他的眉毛之间可以看到淡淡的皱眉。“我敢说你非常慷慨，格兰杰。你从哪儿来的？

“Neville,” Hermione said. Then, when Malfoy didn’t say anything else, she added, “Neville Longbottom. He teaches Herbology at Hogwarts now.”
“纳威，”赫敏说。然后，当马尔福没有说别的话时，她又补充道，“纳威·隆巴顿。他现在在霍格沃茨教草药学。

Looking mildly uncomfortable, Draco nodded and swallowed another bite of his food. “I see. Well, good to know he doesn’t hold a grudge, I suppose. Always rather worrying when the boy you picked on for years grows up to show an aptitude for decapitating snakes.”
Draco看起来有点不舒服，他点点头，又咽了一口食物。“我明白了。嗯，我想他不记仇是件好事。当你多年来挑选的男孩长大后表现出斩首蛇的本领时，总是相当令人担忧。

Hermione snorted while Astoria cast a reproachful look at Draco. “Perhaps you should write to say thank you, Draco,” she suggested, her voice soft so as not to carry. “Or to apologise.”  
赫敏哼了一声，而阿斯托利亚则责备地看了德拉科一眼。“也许你应该写信说谢谢你，德拉科，”她建议道，她的声音轻柔得不至于带着。“或者道歉。”

Staring thoughtfully at his fork for a moment, Draco glanced sideways at Hermione, who tactfully averted her gaze, and then over to his wife. “Perhaps I will,” he said, his voice low. 
德拉科若有所思地盯着他的叉子看了一会儿，侧头看了赫敏一眼，赫敏巧妙地移开了她的视线，然后看向了他的妻子。“也许我会的，”他低声说。

Smiling, Astoria reached across the table and Draco did the same to meet her in the middle, their hands joining and visibly squeezing for a moment. Folding her lips between her teeth at the sight of such intimate affection – a kind that she had never seen Draco engage in – Hermione looked down at her dinner and then glanced around at Lucius to see his eyes fixed on his son and daughter-in-law, his face a mask. 
阿斯托利亚微笑着把手伸到桌子对面，德拉科也做了同样的事情，在中间遇到了她，他们的手合在一起，明显地挤压了一会儿。赫敏看到如此亲密的爱意——她从未见过德拉科有过这种爱——她咬牙切齿地抿着嘴唇，低头看了看她的晚餐，然后环顾了一下卢修斯，发现他的眼睛盯着他的儿子和儿媳，脸上戴着面具。

Perhaps feeling her eyes on him, Lucius blinked and turned his gaze to Hermione. It was hard to read his face but Hermione considered the eight years he had spent locked in the manor — half of them without his wife — and wondered how regularly eating his meals with a young couple so clearly in love had been for him. 
也许是感觉到她的目光在看他，卢修斯眨了眨眼，把目光转向赫敏。很难读懂他的脸色，但赫敏想起了他被锁在庄园里的八年——其中一半没有他的妻子——并想知道和一对如此明显地相爱的年轻夫妇一起吃饭对他来说是多么频繁。

Initially she’d have thought seeing his son – who looked so much like himself – seated like his mirror image, basking in the affection of a young, pretty witch who made him happy, would have pleased Lucius. It was just as possible, though, that the sight also served as a reminder of how miserable Draco had once been and how Lucius hadn’t been the one to make it better. Perhaps it even reinforced his own sense of isolation. 
最初，她以为看到他的儿子——长得和他自己长得太像——像他的镜像一样坐着，沐浴在一个让他开心的年轻漂亮的女巫的爱意中，卢修斯会很高兴。不过，这个景象也有可能提醒我们，德拉科曾经有过多么悲惨，而卢修斯却没有成为那个让它变得更好的人。也许这甚至加强了他自己的孤立感。

Resisting the urge to reach her own hand across the table to Lucius, Hermione instead lowered her eyes to her plate and lifted a forkful of risotto to her lips. Attraction was all very well and discreet but sympathy and a desire to comfort were not feelings she felt able to flaunt at the dinner table. She wasn’t entirely sure she’d even come to terms with them.
赫敏强忍着想把手伸到桌子对面的卢修斯面前的冲动，反而把眼睛低头看向她的盘子，把一叉烩饭举到嘴边。吸引力很好，也很谨慎，但同情和安慰的愿望并不是她觉得能够在餐桌上炫耀的感觉。她甚至不完全确定自己是否接受了他们。

The rest of the meal passed without incident and, though she could hardly believe it, Hermione rather enjoyed herself. Astoria bombarded her with questions about Ginny, Harry and Albus Severus, clearly far more delighted than Draco that their children would be attending Hogwarts together. Hermione, of course, happily engaged, always pleased to enthuse about her favourite people. She quizzed Draco on which potions he planned to make with his new dittany plant, debating the merits of growing it from a cutting versus seeds, and vowed to Astoria that a lemon cake would be with her next week. 
剩下的饭菜顺利地过去了，虽然她几乎不敢相信，但赫敏还是很享受。阿斯托利亚用关于金妮、哈利和阿不思·西弗勒斯的问题轰炸了她，显然比德拉科高兴得多，因为他们的孩子能一起上霍格沃茨。当然，赫敏很高兴地参与其中，总是很高兴地为她最喜欢的人感到兴奋。她问德拉科他打算用他的新白花制作哪些魔药，争论着用扦插种植和种子种植的好处，并向阿斯托利亚发誓，下周她会有一个柠檬蛋糕。

Lucius wasn’t particularly talkative through the meal, seemingly content to speak when spoken to. Draco and Astoria’s acceptance of this suggested to Hermione that was their usual dynamic at meals together. More than once, however, Hermione felt his eyes lingering on her and, when she was sure that Draco and Astoria were occupied by one another or their food, she’d cast him a smile to convey that she was comfortable. Sometimes he answered it with a subtle nod, other times he appeared more thoughtful, like he was looking through her rather than at her. 
卢修斯在用餐过程中并不是特别健谈，似乎很满足于和他说话。德拉科和阿斯托利亚接受了这一点，这让赫敏觉得这是他们一起吃饭时的惯常动态。然而，赫敏不止一次感觉到他的目光在她身上徘徊，当她确定德拉科和阿斯托利亚被彼此或他们的食物占据时，她向他投来一个微笑，以表示她很舒服。有时他会微妙地点头来回答这个问题，有时他显得更加深思熟虑，就像他在看她而不是看着她。

Their promise to meet later hung between them and though neither of them had explicitly stated their intentions, Hermione knew what it was: a repeat. It made her nervous and excited in equal measure – fluttery. It was something she hadn’t felt to any real degree in quite a long time. Certainly not since the early days of her relationship with Ron. 
他们之间约定稍后见面，虽然他们都没有明确表示过自己的意图，但赫敏知道那是什么：重复。这让她既紧张又兴奋——飘飘飘。这是她很久没有真正感受到的东西。当然，从她和罗恩交往的早期开始就没有了。

“Perhaps you’d like to finish your wine on the terrace.”
“也许你想在露台上喝完你的酒。”

Hermione looked up from her now empty plate to see that Lucius was looking directly at her, clearly having addressed her and her alone. 
赫敏从她现在空的盘子里抬起头，看到卢修斯正直视着她，显然是在对她和她单独说话。

Glancing around at Draco and Astoria, she found them giving her curious looks in return. Draco’s wine glass was empty and Astoria had nothing more than water. Hermione, however, still had a third of a glass of wine like Lucius. She turned to him with a smile. “Yes, that’d be nice. Thank you.” 
她环顾四周，发现他们也给了她好奇的眼神。德拉科的酒杯是空的，阿斯托利亚除了水之外什么都没有。然而，赫敏仍然像卢修斯一样喝了三分之一杯酒。她转过身来，微笑着看着他。“是的，那就太好了。谢谢你。

After thanking Draco and Astoria for a lovely meal, Hermione followed Lucius out of the dining room and onto the terrace with her wine. Darkness was just beginning to creep in and the air was much cooler than it had been during the day, causing gooseflesh to rise on Hermione’s bare legs. 
在感谢了德拉科和阿斯托利亚的美味佳肴后，赫敏跟着卢修斯走出了餐厅，端着她的酒来到了露台上。黑暗刚刚开始悄悄溜进来，空气比白天凉爽得多，导致赫敏光着的腿起了鸡皮疙瘩。

Lucius walked across the terrace to the stone balustrade on the right hand side of the stairs, leaving Hermione to trail after him. When they reached it, they stood shoulder-to-shoulder and Lucius set his wine on the stone, his hand coming to rest on the base of the glass to keep it steady. Hermione took another sip of hers, then breathed in the summer air as she lowered the glass, her eyes closed. She liked the smell of summer at night. It was fresher, slighter wetter than the day. Peaceful. 
卢修斯穿过露台，走到楼梯右侧的石栏杆前，留下赫敏跟在他后面。当他们走到石头前时，他们肩并肩地站着，卢修斯把酒放在石头上，他的手放在玻璃杯的底部，以保持酒的稳定。赫敏又喝了一口，然后闭上眼睛放下杯子，呼吸着夏日的空气。她喜欢夜晚的夏日气味。天气比白天更清新，略微潮湿。和平。

“Well,” Hermione finally said, brushing a curl displaced by the soft breeze from her face. “That was unexpected.”
“嗯，”赫敏终于说了，拂过被微风吹过的卷发。“这太出乎意料了。”

“Quite,” said Lucius on a tired exhale. He raised his glass to his lips and took a drink through pursed lips.
“没错，”卢修斯疲惫地呼出一口气说。他把酒杯举到嘴边，抿着嘴喝了一口。

“Who do I have to thank for such a lovely meal?”
“这么美味的饭菜我该感谢谁？”

“Letty.”
“莱蒂。”

Hermione cast him a narrow-eyed look which told him that she didn’t find him nearly as amusing as he thought he was. “Very good. Who do I have to thank for my invitation, then?”
赫敏眯起眼睛看了他一眼，这告诉他，她并不觉得他像他想象的那么有趣。“非常好。那么，我该感谢谁的邀请呢？

Lucius uttered a faint sigh. “Astoria has previously suggested on nights where you are working late that you might join us for dinner. This time I relented to her badgering.”
卢修斯发出一声淡淡的叹息。“Astoria 之前曾建议，在您工作到很晚的晚上，您可以和我们一起吃晚饭。这一次，我对她的纠缠心软了。

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“I thought it might please her.”
“我想这可能会让她高兴。”

Raising an eyebrow, Hermione turned her head fractionally towards Lucius. “And you’re looking to please Astoria?” She was sure Astoria would be surprised by that revelation. 
赫敏扬起眉毛，微微把头转向卢修斯。“那么你想取悦阿斯托利亚吗？”她确信阿斯托利亚会对这个发现感到惊讶。

“I’m looking to please Draco,” Lucius said firmly. “That is a surefire way to do it.”
“我想取悦德拉科，”卢修斯坚定地说。“这是万无一失的方法。”

Hermione smiled down into her wine, shaking her head slightly. Though she couldn’t be certain, she got the impression that Lucius viewed Astoria as some kind of competitor for Draco’s affection and wondered if the young woman was even aware of it. Admittedly, it seemed to Hermione that, now, Lucius was changing his approach; he intended to use Astoria rather than fight her. An even more twisted dynamic, certainly, but potentially more peaceful and gratifying for everyone involved.
赫敏对着她的酒笑了笑，微微摇了摇头。虽然她不能确定，但她觉得卢修斯将阿斯托利亚视为德拉科感情的某种竞争者，并想知道这个年轻女子是否意识到了这一点。诚然，在赫敏看来，现在，卢修斯正在改变他的方法;他打算利用阿斯托利亚而不是与她战斗。当然，这是一种更加扭曲的动态，但对所有相关人员来说可能更加平静和令人满意。

“Fair enough,” she said with a shrug. Taking a deep breath and leaning her elbows on the balustrade, she found the stone still held some of the heat from the day. “It’s nice out here at night.”
“很公平，”她耸耸肩说。她深吸一口气，将手肘靠在栏杆上，发现这块石头仍然保持着白天的一些热量。“晚上这儿真好。”

Lucius nodded his agreement. “I come out most evenings in the summer. Sometimes Draco joins me but I believe this evening he has opted to stare at us from inside the manor.” 
卢修斯点头表示同意。“我在夏天的大部分晚上都出来。有时德拉科会加入我，但我相信今天晚上他选择在庄园里盯着我们看。

“What?” Hermione asked, her voice rising in surprise. She started to turn her head to look back into the manor when Lucius brought a warning hand down onto her portion of the balustrade, his head jerking sharply. 
“什么？”赫敏问道，她的声音惊讶地提高了。她开始转头回头看向庄园，这时卢修斯将一只警告的手放在她的栏杆上，他的头猛地抽搐着。

“Don’t ,” he hissed. “Good grief, you have all the subtlety of a giant in a fairy nest.”
“别，”他嘶吼道。“天哪，你有仙女巢里的巨人的所有微妙之处。”

“Well, how am I supposed to know if he’s looking at us?”
“嗯，我怎么知道他是不是在看我们呢？”

“You take my word for it,” Lucius replied stiffly, taking a sip from his wine.
“你相信我的话，”卢修斯僵硬地回答，啜了一口酒。

“And how do you know?”
“那你怎么知道的？”

“I just do.”
“我就是喜欢。”

Hermione made an aggravated ‘ tch’ sound and, before Lucius could stop her, she spun 180 degrees to face in the direction of the manor. Leaning her elbows on the balustrade, she lifted her chin to look at the starry sky. 
赫敏发出了一声恼怒的“啧啧”声，在卢修斯阻止她之前，她转身180度面向庄园的方向。她将手肘靠在栏杆上，抬起下巴望着星空。

The whole motion was fluid and looking at the sky appeared to be what she’d been aiming to do all along but Hermione managed to catch a fleeting glimpse through the open doors of the manor.  Just as Lucius had said, Draco and Astoria were peering interestedly out at them from the dining room. Though Hermione pretended she hadn’t noticed them, more interested in the emerging stars, they turned hurriedly in the opposite direction and made for the exit as though they had been caught misbehaving.
整个动作很流畅，看着天空似乎是她一直以来的目标，但赫敏设法透过庄园敞开的门短暂地瞥了一眼。正如卢修斯所说，德拉科和阿斯托利亚正从餐厅里饶有兴趣地望着他们。尽管赫敏假装没有注意到他们，但对那些冉冉升起的明星更感兴趣，他们还是匆匆忙忙地转向相反的方向，像是被抓到行为不端一样向出口走去。

Hermione giggled to herself, feeling Lucius’ glare on the side of her head. Her eyes slid over to his and she straightened her hanging forearms to raise her palms in a ‘what?’ motion. “I thought that was kind of subtle.”
赫敏咯咯地笑着，感觉到卢修斯的目光在她的头侧。她的眼睛滑向他，伸直了悬垂的前臂，以“什么”的动作举起手掌。“我觉得这有点微妙。”

“Hardly,” he said with a scoff. 
“几乎不会，”他嘲笑着说。

“Why do you think he’s so interested in what we’re doing?”
“你觉得他为什么对我们正在做的事情这么感兴趣？”

Lucius looked at her closely, as though trying to work out if she was being deliberately obtuse to annoy him. She sort of was but she also wanted to see if his theories on Draco’s curiosity matched hers. “I imagine he’s rather intrigued by our newfound civility,” Lucius finally said. “And perhaps by the fact that we’re on first-name terms.”
卢修斯仔细地看着她，似乎在试图弄清楚她是不是故意迟钝地惹恼他。她有点像，但她也想看看他对德拉科的好奇心的理论是否与她的一致。“我想他对我们新发现的礼貌很感兴趣，”卢修斯终于说。“也许是因为我们是直呼其名的事实。”

“Hm.” Hermione nodded, satisfied that their reading of the situation was fairly similar. “That is quite the development since the last time he sat in a room with us, I suppose. Do you think he suspects anything?”
“嗯。”赫敏点点头，满意地看到他们对情况的解读相当相似。“我想，自从他上次和我们坐在一个房间里以来，情况已经有了很大的发展。你觉得他怀疑什么吗？

“No,” Lucius said, his voice firm and certain enough to alleviate the concern that had started tugging insistently in Hermione’s stomach. “Why would he?”
“不，”卢修斯说，他的声音坚定而坚定，足以缓解赫敏肚子里开始持续拉扯的担忧。“他为什么会呢？”

“I don’t know, you edged towards flirtation in there, Mr Malfoy,” Hermione said teasingly.
“我不知道，你在那儿快要调情了，马尔福先生，”赫敏调侃地说。

“Oh, please. I did no such thing.” His posture was rigid and his tone confident but Hermione thought she spied a flash of concern in the way his eyes darted down to look at her.
“哦，拜托了。我没有做过这样的事情。他的姿势很僵硬，语气很自信，但赫敏觉得她从他低头看她的眼神中窥见了一丝担忧。

“Well, what more interesting things do you think I have to do with my night? You left the room wondering. Me most especially.”
“嗯，你觉得我晚上还有什么更有趣的事情要做呢？你离开房间时心里纳闷。尤其是我。

“I meant nothing by that,” he said sharply. 
“我没什么意思，”他尖锐地说。

“Oh.” Hermione pushed her lower lip out in a mock display of disappointment. “Pity. I was rather keen on hearing your ideas.”
“哦。”赫敏把下嘴唇张开，假装失望。“可惜。我很想听听你的想法。

Lucius’ responding sigh was long-suffering, his glare searing, and Hermione decided that she had pushed enough buttons for an evening. “It was fine,” she said reassuringly. “You were fine. I think he was thrown but he has no reason to suspect anything. It would be quite a leap to make.”
卢修斯回应的叹息是持久的，他的目光炙热，赫敏决定她已经按下了一个晚上的按钮。“没事，”她安慰地说。“你没事。我认为他是被扔出去的，但他没有理由怀疑任何事情。这将是一个相当大的飞跃。

“Indeed,” Lucius said dryly. “I’ve never shown any masochistic inclinations before so I can’t imagine anyone would easily believe me drawn to such an irritant.”
“确实，”卢修斯干巴巴地说。“我以前从未表现出任何受虐狂的倾向，所以我无法想象有人会轻易相信我被这种刺激物所吸引。”

Hermione nudged his elbow with hers. “Careful, you’re flirting again.”
赫敏用她的胳膊肘轻推了一下。“小心，你又在调情了。”

His shoulders lifted with a single, throaty chuckle and Hermione grinned. Using her elbows to push herself off the stone railing, Hermione turned and leaned on it again, this time facing in the same direction as Lucius. Her elbow brushed against his but she resisted leaning her head on his arm.
他抬起肩膀，发出一声嘶哑的笑声，赫敏咧嘴一笑。赫敏用手肘把自己从石栏杆上推开，然后转过身来，再次靠在上面，这一次和卢修斯面对着同一个方向。她的手肘碰到他，但她忍住了，把头靠在他的手臂上。

“Have you thought about how he might take it?” she asked. “If he found out?”
“你有没有想过他会怎么接受？”“如果他发现了？”

“Yes,” he said, turning his glass on the stone. “I think his reaction would be dependent on a number of factors. Some of which are out of my control. I have yet to land on the best way to broach the matter.”
“是的，”他说，一边把酒杯对准石头。“我认为他的反应将取决于许多因素。其中一些是我无法控制的。我还没有找到解决这个问题的最佳方式。

The idea that he had considered how he might tell Draco at all made Hermione’s stomach clench. It meant it was something to him, whatever it was that they were doing.
他考虑过怎么告诉德拉科的想法让赫敏的胃紧缩。这意味着这对他来说就是什么，无论他们在做什么。

“This is for the best just now,” she said. “While I’m advocating for you.”
“现在这是最好的，”她说。“当我为你辩护时。”

Lucius murmured his agreement and raised his glass to his lips. “And how is that going?” he asked before taking a drink.
卢修斯喃喃地表示同意，并将酒杯举到嘴边。“那怎么样？”

“I’ve written a plea and I intend to send it to Kingsley tomorrow. He’ll send it on to the Wizengamot with his own assessment of the situation. You can read it if you like.”
“我已经写了一份认罪书，我打算明天把它寄给金斯利。他会把它连同他自己对情况的评估一起送到威森加摩。如果你愿意，你可以读它。

He looked as though he was itching to say yes but, to Hermione’s surprise, he shook his head. “I will trust your judgement.” He glanced down at her shocked face and smiled tightly. “You know the lay of the land at the Ministry better than I do these days.”
他看起来好像很想说“是”，但出乎赫敏意料的是，他摇了摇头。“我会相信你的判断。”他低头看了一眼她震惊的脸，紧紧地笑了笑。“你现在比我更了解魔法部的情况。”

“I wouldn’t be so sure about that,” Hermione said darkly. “You weren’t all that wrong when you called it a cesspit. How can anyone claim to know their way around one of those?”
“我不太确定，”赫敏阴沉地说。“你说它是粪坑并没有错。怎么会有人声称自己知道其中之一的办法呢？

“To think you gave the impression you quite firmly disagreed with my assessment,” he said, his tone amused and doubtful. “What I will say is that in my day your Freedom of Labour Act would never have made it out of your department, never mind through the Wizengamot. That’s only partly because I would have put all my efforts and a good deal of my galleons into stopping it.” Lucius swirled the last of his wine before raising his glass to his lips and finishing it one gulp. “Clearly things have changed in my absence. I will refrain from commenting on whether it’s for better or worse.”
“想想你给人的印象是你非常坚决地不同意我的评估，”他说，他的语气既有趣又怀疑。“我要说的是，在我那个时代，你的《劳动自由法》永远不会通过你的部门，更不用说通过威森加摩了。那只是部分原因，因为我愿意付出我所有的努力和大量的大帆船来阻止它。卢修斯漩了漩最后一瓶酒，然后把酒杯举到嘴边，一口喝完了。“显然，在我缺席期间，情况发生了变化。我不会评论它是好是坏。

Turning her head, the ends of her hair trailing along the stone, Hermione considered him. Maybe things had changed. She’d always viewed the Ministry as a stagnant mess incapable of progress but it was possible that it had shifted at least a little. Evolution rather than revolution. Maybe he was in a better position to see that than her, his view being more far-reaching, at least in a temporal sense.
赫敏转过头，发梢沿着石头拖曳，看着他。也许情况已经发生了变化。她一直认为魔法部是一个停滞不前的烂摊子，无法进步，但它可能至少已经发生了一点变化。进化而不是革命。也许他比她更能看到这一点，他的视野更深远，至少在时间意义上是这样。

Hermione rubbed her hand over the smooth railing beneath her hand, her forefinger stopping to prod and scratch at a tiny dent in the stone. If she took Kingsley up on his offer to change the Pure-blood laws, she thought, she might be able to change things even further. Even more dramatically. Maybe it was actually possible. If her relationship with Lucius Malfoy could transform to the degree that it had, surely anything was possible. 
赫敏用手在手下光滑的栏杆上摩擦，食指停下来戳戳和抓挠石头上的一个小凹痕。她想，如果她接受金斯利的提议来改变纯血法，她也许能够进一步改变事情。甚至更戏剧化。也许这真的是可能的。如果她和卢修斯·马尔福的关系能够发展到现在的程度，那肯定是一切皆有可能的。

Watching Lucius as he stared out over his darkening grounds, Hermione wondered what he’d say if she told him about what Kingsley wanted her to do. It was hard to imagine him taking it especially well. Just because he liked her did not, she thought, mean he would take kindly to having his privileges removed, just as it clearly hadn’t warmed him towards her Freedom of Labour Act. Hermione realised she didn’t even know what the Pure-blood privileges were – what did these laws actually cover? Did Lucius even know? Would he miss them?
看着卢修斯盯着他那片黑暗的土地，赫敏想知道如果她告诉他金斯莱希望她做什么，他会怎么说。很难想象他会特别好。她想，仅仅因为他喜欢她并不意味着他会善意地接受取消他的特权，就像这显然没有让他对她的《劳动自由法》感到温暖一样。赫敏意识到她甚至不知道纯血统特权是什么——这些法律实际上涵盖了什么？卢修斯知道吗？他会想念他们吗？

“Kingsley told me it can take a while for the Wizengamot to feed back on these things,” she finally said. “Maybe a month. I’ll let you know as soon as I hear anything.”
“金斯利告诉我，威森加摩可能需要一段时间才能对这些东西进行反馈，”她最后说。“也许一个月。我一听到什么就告诉你。

“I should think so,” Lucius said, drawing back his shoulders to stand taller before sighing. “It does concern me, after all.” He turned towards the manor and jerked his head towards the door. “Shall we? I think I ought to return you to the library.” 
“我应该这么认为，”卢修斯说，把肩膀往后拉，让自己站得更高，然后叹了口气。“毕竟，这确实让我很担心。”他转向庄园，猛地把头转向门口。“好吗？我想我应该把你送回图书馆去。

Hermione blinked at him, now wondering if she should tell him about the Pure-blood laws. 
赫敏朝他眨了眨眼，现在想知道她是否应该告诉他关于纯血法的事。

It does concern me, after all . 
毕竟，这确实让我感到担忧。

The sound of him clearing his throat prompted her to come out of her head, smiling weakly and nodding as she followed him. There was no point in telling him before she’d agreed to anything. It was a conversation for another day.
他清清嗓子的声音让她从脑海中走出来，虚弱地笑着，跟着他点头。在她同意任何事情之前告诉他没有任何意义。这是另一天的谈话。

As Hermione followed Lucius along the same twisting, turning path from the dining room to the library that Letty had led her through, she recalled her sense that it felt needlessly circuitous. So many corners to turn. It was only when they’d passed through their third set of double doors taking them towards the front of the house, rather than through its middle, that she commented on it.
当赫敏跟着卢修斯沿着莱蒂带她穿过的那条蜿蜒曲折的小路从餐厅走到图书馆时，她想起了自己的感觉，感觉毫无必要地迂回曲折。有太多的弯道可以转弯。直到他们穿过第三组双扇门，带他们走向房子的前面，而不是中间，她才对它发表了评论。

“Do you really walk this path every evening to get to dinner?” she asked, swinging her arms by her sides and looking around the still-unfamiliar hallway with interest. “It feels very long. Although I suppose it works up an appetite?”
“你真的每天晚上都走这条路去吃晚饭吗？”她问道，双臂在身体两侧摆动，饶有兴致地环顾着仍然陌生的走廊。“感觉很长。虽然我想这能让人胃口大开？

Lucius glanced down at her from the corner of his eyes and rolled his shoulders, straightening his already perfect posture. “That’s because we’re taking the long route.”
卢修斯用眼角的余光低头看了她一眼，转动了一下肩膀，挺直了他本来就完美的姿势。“那是因为我们走的是漫长的道路。”

“Why?”
“为什么？”

Sighing softly through his nose, Lucius seemed to consider his next words, his gaze lifting from her and fixing straight ahead. “There is a shorter path," he began slowly, "but it passes through the drawing room.”
卢修斯从鼻子里轻轻地叹了口气，似乎在考虑他接下来的话，他的目光从她身上移开，直直地盯着前方。“有一条较短的小路，”他慢慢地开始说，“但它穿过客厅。

Hermione’s stomach dropped violently, her steps slowing. Lucius subtly slowed his pace to keep in step with her. “I had thought, when you said you still dreamed of – I thought you might dislike having it sprung on you but if you feel rea–”
赫敏的肚子猛地下垂，她的脚步放慢了脚步。卢修斯巧妙地放慢了脚步，与她保持同步。“我曾想过，当你说你还在做梦时——我以为你可能不喜欢它突然出现在你身上，但如果你觉得真的——”

“No,” Hermione said firmly with a sharp twitch of her head. “No, you thought right.” Her chest inflated as she took a deep breath and looked up at him. “This is preferable. For today.”
“不，”赫敏坚定地说，她的头猛地抽搐着。“不，你没想对。”她的胸口鼓胀着，深吸一口气，抬头看着他。“这样可取。为了今天。

It was incredible, really, that the drawing room hadn’t occurred to her. In her early visits, she’d felt it in the house like another presence, even if she hadn’t been entirely sure where it was located. It had echoed to her. 
真的，她竟然没有想到客厅，真是不可思议。在她早期的访问中，她感觉到它在房子里就像另一个存在，即使她并不完全确定它在哪里。它向她发出了回响。

Over the course of the time she had been visiting, though, it had been pushed further and further to the back of her mind. She’d stopped hearing it. That was, she supposed, probably in part due to the fact that she’d never had to face it. The manor that contained the drawing room had somehow become separate to the manor in which she spent so much of her time. 
然而，在她探访的这段时间里，它已经越来越被推到她的脑海中。她已经听不见了。她想，这可能部分是因为她从来没有面对过它。包含客厅的庄园不知何故与她花费了大量时间的庄园分开了。

Frowning slightly, Lucius glanced down at her again with a single stiff nod. “If you change your mind, you need only tell me. I should like for you to feel comfortable exploring the manor. The whole manor.”
卢修斯微微皱眉，再次低头看了她一眼，僵硬地点了点头。“如果你改变主意，你只需要告诉我。我希望您在探索庄园时感到舒适。整个庄园。

“Thank you,” Hermione said softly, looking down at her trainers. 
“谢谢你，”赫敏低头看着她的运动鞋，轻声说。

Lucius cleared his throat. It was a gentle, uncomfortable sound. “Don’t thank me, Hermione,” he said. “Please.”
卢修斯清了清嗓子。那是一种温柔、令人不舒服的声音。“别感谢我，赫敏，”他说。“求你。”

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Thank you all for your kind wishes on the move! It's going pretty well, remarkably. Well enough that I was able to sit down and edit this chapter to post it :D It was originally around 16,000 words ahahaha so I've halved it. Hope you enjoy smut because that'll be the majority of chapter 27 I'm afraid *hides head in hands* Sex really bumps up a word count.
感谢大家在旅途中的美好祝愿！进展得相当顺利，非常了不起。好吧，我能够坐下来编辑这一章并将其发布到:D它最初大约有 16,000 个单词啊哈哈哈，所以我把它减半了。希望你喜欢色情内容，因为这将是第 27 章的大部分 恐怕 *把头藏在手里* 性爱真的会增加字数。

Chapter 27
章 27Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius continue to get acquainted - it has its highs and its lows
赫敏和卢修斯继续相识——它有高潮也有低谷

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Friday feels like a smut day, right? I strongly feel like Friday is a smut day. So, as promised, here we are. Smut. And conversation. But predominantly smut.
周五感觉像个色情日，对吧？我强烈地觉得星期五是个色情的日子。所以，正如承诺的那样，我们来了。黑穗病。还有对话。但主要是色情内容。

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾Lucius led Hermione along the hallways towards the library, seemingly oblivious to how overwhelmingly aware she was of his arm just inches from her own.  As they entered the hallway that led towards his study and the library, Hermione caught, from the corner of her eye, the figure of Sabine watching them carefully from her portrait. Turning her head fractionally, Hermione guiltily met Sabine’s overtly interested gaze and then looked down, using her next two steps to put another inch between herself and Lucius. Bloody Sabine.  
卢修斯领着赫敏沿着走廊走向图书馆，似乎忘记了她对他的手臂的压倒性关注，就在她自己的手臂上。当他们走进通往他的书房和图书馆的走廊时，赫敏用眼角的余光捕捉到了萨宾从她的画像上仔细注视着他们的身影。赫敏微微转过头，愧疚地与萨宾明显感兴趣的目光相遇，然后低下头，用接下来的两步在自己和卢修斯之间又拉了一英寸。血腥的萨宾。

Passing the door to Lucius’ study, grateful that they were out of Sabine’s eyeline, Hermione slowed them to a stop just past the door of the guest room that Letty had placed her in so many weeks before. Eyeing the door to the bedroom, Hermione glanced at Lucius and found his gaze already on her, expectant and curious.
赫敏穿过卢修斯书房的门，庆幸他们没有躲过萨宾的视线，赫敏放慢了他们的速度，在经过莱蒂许多周前安置她的客房门口时停了下来。赫敏盯着卧室的门，瞥了一眼卢修斯，发现他的目光已经注视着她，既期待又好奇。

Shifting nervously, she turned to face him fully, channelling all of her Gryffindor bravery. 
她紧张地转过身来，完全面对他，将她所有的格兰芬多勇气都发挥出来。

“We could meet here, when I’m finished in the library,” she said, her eyes cutting to the door mostly because she thought prolonged eye contact with Lucius Malfoy when she was overtly propositioning him might kill her.
“等我在图书馆里完了，我们可以在这里见面，”她说，她的眼睛盯着门，主要是因为她觉得在她公开向卢修斯·马尔福求婚时，与他长时间的眼神交流可能会杀死她。

“We could,” he agreed with a single nod of his head.
“我们可以，”他点了点头同意。

“When would you prefer?”
“你更喜欢什么时候？”

“Midnight?”
“午夜？”

A titter bubbled up Hermione's throat and she brought a hand up to her mouth to muffle it. She was growing nervous and that combined with the wine she’d consumed at dinner made it so much harder to stay measured.
赫敏的喉咙里冒出一阵咕噜咕噜，她把一只手凑到嘴边，想把它压住。她越来越紧张，再加上她在晚餐时喝的酒，让保持有节制变得更加困难。

“Something amusing?” Lucius drawled, looking weary.
“有什么好笑的吗？”卢修斯抽了抽身子，看起来疲惫不堪。

Hermione shrugged, a bright grin developing on her face. “It’s just very dramatic, isn’t it? Midnight. I might turn into a pumpkin.”
赫敏耸了耸肩，脸上露出了灿烂的笑容。“这非常戏剧化，不是吗？午夜。我可能会变成一个南瓜。

Lucius rolled his eyes and crossed his arms. She suspected he had no idea what she was referencing but knew her well enough to realise that it was something Muggle. “Would a minute past take the edge off?”
卢修斯翻了个白眼，交叉着双臂。她怀疑他不知道她指的是什么，但对她足够了解，意识到这是麻瓜的东西。“一分钟过去会让你失去优势吗？”

Hermione laughed aloud at that, her head dropping back. The laugh became an alarmed squeak when Malfoy gripped her upper arm and pushed her towards the room they’d just been discussing. “Lucius!”
赫敏听到这话大笑起来，她的头向后仰。当马尔福抓住她的上臂，把她推向他们刚刚讨论的房间时，笑声变成了警觉的吱吱声。“卢修斯！”

Opening the door to the bedroom, he shoved her bodily inside and stepped in after her, closing the door with a heavy thunk . Hermione stumbled, trying to get her bearings in the relative darkness. A shaft of moonlight shone through a gap in one of the heavy curtains, giving the room a pale glow. 
他打开卧室的门，把她的身体推了进去，然后跟着她走了进去，砰的一声关上了门。赫敏跌跌撞撞，试图在相对黑暗中找回方向。一缕月光从其中一扇厚重的窗帘的缝隙中照进来，给房间带来了苍白的光芒。

“Lucius, that was completely unnecessary,” she snapped, spinning on her heel to face him while rubbing at the arm he’d grabbed. “What did you do that for?”
“卢修斯，那完全没有必要，”她厉声说，一边用脚后跟转身面对他，一边摩擦着他抓住的手臂。“你这样做是为了什么？”

Lucius stepped forward from his shadowy place at the door, sauntering slowly towards her and into the light. “Perhaps,” he said smoothly, “since midnight is so amusing to you, you’d prefer to meet right now instead.”
卢修斯从门口阴暗的地方走了出来，慢慢地向她走来，走进了光明。“也许吧，”他平静地说，“既然午夜对你来说太有趣了，你宁愿现在就见面。

As he drew closer, that familiar fizzing feeling rushed through her limbs and up to her head with a force that made her worry it might pop off her neck. He didn’t scare her any more in the least but she couldn’t deny that he cut an intimidating figure moving through the pale moonlight. There was a sort of feline deliberateness to each step that made her feel he was perfectly capable of pouncing on her.
当他靠近时，那种熟悉的嘶嘶声从她的四肢冲过来，以一种让她担心它会从她的脖子上弹出的力量冲向她的头。他丝毫没有吓到她，但她不能否认，他在苍白的月光下划过一个令人生畏的身影。每一步都有一种猫科动物的刻意，让她觉得他完全有能力扑向她。

He stopped, leaving a few inches between them, and Hermione fidgeted with her hands behind her back. “I was only laughing because it was funny,” she pointed out, lowering her gaze. “You could do with taking yourself less seriously.”
他停了下来，在他们之间留出了几英寸的距离，赫敏双手背在背后坐立不安。“我只是因为好笑才笑的，”她低下头指出。“你可以把自己看得不那么严肃。”

“I’m not really in the mood to make you laugh right now, Hermione,” he said, reaching out to place a finger under her chin and raise her head so that she was forced to look at him. “Do you want to meet me right now or not?”
“我现在真的没心情让你笑，赫敏，”他说，伸出一根手指放在她的下巴上，抬起头来，让她不得不看着他。“你现在想见我还是不想？”

Hermione worried at her lower lip with her teeth and swallowed hard, wondering if he would feel the corresponding movement in her neck on the pad of his finger. He lifted an eyebrow in an expectant arch and she squeezed her toes down flat in her shoes as a throb of need went through her. God, what does this say about me?  
赫敏用牙齿担心着她的下唇，用力咽了咽口水，想知道他是否会在指腹上感觉到她脖子上相应的动作。他扬起眉毛，以期待的方式拱起眉毛，她把脚趾平放在鞋子里，一阵需要的悸动贯穿了她。 天哪，这说明了我什么？

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“Good,” he said softly, withdrawing his hand from her to begin unbuttoning his waistcoat. “Get undressed.”
“很好，”他轻声说，把手从她身上收回来，开始解开他的背心扣子。“脱掉衣服。”

Hermione dropped her hands from their place behind her back so that they swung heavily at her sides but didn’t move otherwise. After their last encounter—which certainly ranked among the most passionate she’d had in her life—she hadn’t expected anything quite so…clinical from him. It was like he was telling her to prepare for a meeting. Perhaps seeing her reticence, he slowed his movements and fixed her with a curious look.
赫敏把手从背后放下，这样它们就会在她的身体两侧重重地摆动，但除此之外没有移动。在他们最后一次相遇之后——这无疑是她一生中最热情的一次相遇——她没想到会如此......临床从他。就像他在告诉她准备开会一样。也许是看到了她的沉默，他放慢了动作，用好奇的眼神盯着她。

“Problem?”
“问题？”

“Well…” Hermione hesitated, hardly able to believe this was a conversation she was having with Lucius Malfoy. “Shouldn’t we…undress each other? Don’t you think – wouldn’t that be more…intimate?”
“嗯......”赫敏犹豫了一下，几乎不敢相信这是她和卢修斯·马尔福的对话。“我们不应该......互相脱衣服？你不觉得吗 - 那不是更......亲密的吗？

Lucius halted his movements entirely, his hand lowering to his side as he looked down at her, a small frown between his brows. Hermione chanced a glance up at him and shrugged diffidently into the silence that had fallen between them. 
卢修斯完全停下了他的动作，他的手垂到身体两侧，低头看着她，眉头紧皱。赫敏偶然抬头看了他一眼，对他们之间的沉默犹豫不决地耸了耸肩。

“Is that what you expect from me?” he asked, his previous certainty replaced with wariness as his eyes searched her face. 
“这就是你对我的期望吗？”他问道，当他的眼睛在她的脸上寻找时，他之前的确定被警惕所取代。

Hermione considered his question, her gaze running up and down his tall, broad frame. Once, the only connection she’d ever have made between Lucius Malfoy and the word intimate would have been to declare them antonymous. 
赫敏思考着他的问题，她的目光在他高大宽阔的身躯上下扫视。曾经，她把卢修斯·马尔福和亲密这个词联系起来的唯一联系就是宣布他们是反义词。

It was possible that it was only her conversation with Neville that was making her give whatever was happening between them so much thought but, actually, she rather thought she would like intimacy. More intimacy. Denying it would have been simpler but after their dinner — after seeing Draco and Astoria together — Hermione was beginning to wonder if it was not something that Lucius might also want himself.
可能只是她和纳威的谈话让她对他们之间发生的任何事情都考虑了这么多，但实际上，她宁愿认为她想要的是亲密关系。更亲密。否认这本来会更简单，但在他们吃完晚饭之后——看到德拉科和阿斯托利亚在一起之后——赫敏开始怀疑这是否不是卢修斯自己也想要的东西。

“It’s what I want from you,” she said, hesitantly stepping forward to close the space between them. “I think.”
“这就是我想从你这里得到的，”她说，犹豫着向前走一步以拉近他们之间的距离。“我想。”

Lucius watched wordlessly as Hermione lifted her hands to his waistcoat and finished undoing the buttons by herself. As she undid the last one and let it fall open, she peered up at him and found a somewhat muddled expression on his face.
卢修斯无言地看着赫敏把手举到他的背心上，自己解开了纽扣。当她解开最后一个并让它打开时，她抬头凝视着他，发现他脸上露出有些困惑的表情。

“Is that okay?” she asked.
“没问题吗？”

In response, Lucius reached out and began roughly tugging her peasant blouse from the waistband of her shorts. “I will say, as desires go, it’s very on theme for you today.”
作为回应，卢修斯伸出手，开始粗暴地从短裤的腰带上扯下她的农民衬衫。“我会说，就愿望而言，今天对你来说非常符合主题。”

“And what’s today’s theme?” Hermione asked, her heart rate picking up as she followed his prompt to raise her arms over her head so that he could pull her blouse over it.
“那么今天的主题是什么？”赫敏问道，她的心跳加快了，她按照他的提示将手臂举过头顶，这样他就可以把她的衬衫拉过来。

“Embarrassingly sentimental.”
“令人尴尬的多愁善感。”

Hermione laughed aloud as her blouse was pulled over her head. Lucius cast it to the floor, pulling her in for a firm kiss that sealed his lips over hers and silenced her. “I thought I told you I wasn’t in the mood to make you laugh?” he asked when he drew away, still holding her tightly.
赫敏大声笑了起来，她的上衣被拉到头上。卢修斯把它扔在地板上，把她拉进去，用力吻了一下，他的嘴唇盖住了她的嘴唇，让她安静了下来。“我以为我跟你说过我没心情逗你笑呢？”他问道，他走开了，仍然紧紧地抱着她。

“Then stop being funny ,” she said, panting slightly and scrabbling for the buttons of his shirt.
“那就别开玩笑了，”她说，微微喘着粗气，摸索着他衬衫的纽扣。

“I truly don’t think anyone has ever described me as funny before.”
“我真的认为以前没有人说我很有趣。”

“Well, you’re not always intentional about it.”
“嗯，你并不总是故意的。”

Rather than deign to respond, Lucius slid his hand up her back until he reached the clip of her bra, swiftly undoing it and pulling it down her arms. Hermione drew in a sharp breath as his hands encased her waist and ran upwards to cup her breasts, his palms brushing across her nipples. When his eyes fell on the scar that ran between her breasts, purple like the flaming curse that had caused it, he ran a gentle thumb over it, drawing a delicate shiver from Hermione. 
卢修斯没有屈尊回应，而是把手滑到她的背上，直到他碰到她胸罩的夹子，迅速解开它，把它拉到她的手臂上。赫敏猛地吸了一口气，双手搂住她的腰，向上跑去搂住她的乳房，他的手掌拂过她的。当他的目光落在她乳房之间的伤疤上时，紫色的就像导致它的火焰诅咒一样，他用拇指轻轻地抚摸着它，让赫敏微微地颤抖起来。

“It wasn’t you,” she offered weakly, seeing the inquisitive frown that had formed between his brows. 
“不是你，”她虚弱地提议，看到他眉间好奇的皱眉。

“I didn’t think it was,” he murmured, his eyes still intent on the scar. “I wasn’t ever particularly fond of going on the offensive as a first port of call. Certainly not in a manner that would a scar like this. Who?”
“我不觉得是，”他喃喃自语，眼睛仍然盯着那道疤痕。“我从来都不是特别喜欢把进攻作为第一站。当然不会以这样的疤痕的方式。谁？

Hermione swallowed, her attention drawn to where his hand had moved to cup her breast again. Dipping his head, Lucius pressed a light kiss against the scar and Hermione drew in a breath, sure that she was imagining the return of the painful burning that had first accompanied it. 
赫敏咽了口口水，她的注意力被他的手再次移到了她的乳房上。卢修斯低下头，在伤疤上轻轻地吻了一下，赫敏吸了一口气，确信她正在想象最初伴随着它的痛苦灼烧的回归。

“Dolohov,” she said, her tongue oddly thick in her mouth. “In the Department of Mysteries.”
“多洛霍夫，”她说，她的舌头在嘴里奇怪地粗。“在神秘事务司。”

Lucius straightened up and looked down at her, his hands stroking down her skin to settle on her waist. “So I was there at the very least,” he said, eyeing the scar again with a more clinical, closed expression. “Yes, I recall that was a particular favourite of Antonin’s. Quite deadly in the right circumstances. Yet here you are."
卢修斯直起身来，低头看着她，他的手抚摸着她的皮肤，落在她的腰上。“所以我至少在那儿，”他说，再次以一种更加临床、封闭的表情注视着那道疤痕。“是的，我记得那是安东宁特别喜欢的。在适当的情况下是相当致命的。但你在这里。

“I silenced him,” Hermione explained, wishing they could just go back to kissing rather than spend another second bringing up the memories of an awful night where things had gone terribly wrong for both of them. “It didn’t have its full effect.”
“我让他安静下来，”赫敏解释道，希望他们能回到接吻中，而不是再花一秒钟回忆起那个可怕的夜晚，他们俩都经历了可怕的事情。“它没有发挥出全部效果。”

A sly grin crept over Lucius’ face and Hermione squeaked as he used the waistband of her shorts to jerk her back against him before snaking his arm around her and capturing her lips in a kiss. “Clever, clever witch,” he said against her lips. 
卢修斯的脸上浮现出狡猾的笑容，赫敏吱吱作响，他用她短裤的腰带把她的背猛地拉到他身上，然后用手臂蜿蜒着搂住她，吻住了她的嘴唇。“聪明，聪明的女巫，”他贴着她的嘴唇说。

He began running kisses along her jaw and Hermione tipped her head back and to the side with a pleased hum. As his lips reached her ear, he nipped at it with his teeth, raising goosebumps on her skin. “I wonder,” he said, his breath tickling her ear, “what it would have been like if we'd duelled even once in all those years."
他开始沿着她的下巴亲吻，赫敏高兴地哼了一声，把她的头向后仰和向一侧。当他的嘴唇碰到她的耳朵时，他用牙齿咬住它，让她的皮肤起鸡皮疙瘩。“我想知道，”他说，他的呼吸在她的耳朵上搔痒，“如果我们在这么多年里决斗哪怕一次，那会是什么样子。

Hermione stiffened in his arms, her eyes that had been closed in pleasure opening to find him watching her with a bright, almost mischievous curiosity. “That is…entirely inappropriate,” she said. “I think? I’m not really sure.”
赫敏在他的怀里僵硬着，她本来因快乐而闭着的眼睛睁开了，发现他用一种明亮的、近乎调皮的好奇心看着她。“那是......完全不合适，“她说。“我想？我不太确定。

“Is it?” he asked, his voice light. He reached up to tuck one of her curls behind her ear, his head tilting. “It might have been enjoyable. Especially with you pulling wily little tricks like that. I did so appreciate a touch of magical creativity; the old shield, stun, repeat routine got dull very fast.”
“是吗？” 他问道，声音很轻。他伸手把她的一头卷发塞到耳后，头歪着。“这可能很愉快。尤其是你用这种狡猾的小把戏。我确实很欣赏一点神奇的创造力;旧的盾牌、眩晕、重复程序很快就变得迟钝了。

“I think you’re forgetting that you weren’t just stunning,” Hermione grumbled as she removed his hands from her to push his waistcoat from his shoulders to the floor and continued to undo his shirt, snapping at the final few buttons with a vehemence that surprised even her. He didn’t resist, letting her unveil his lean torso inch by inch. “And I don’t particularly enjoy duelling anyway.”
“我想你忘了，你不仅仅是令人惊叹，”赫敏抱怨道，她把他的手从她身上移开，把他的背心从肩膀上推到地板上，继续解开他的衬衫，猛烈地啪啪作响，连她自己都感到惊讶。他没有反抗，让她一寸一寸地揭开他瘦削的躯干。“反正我也不是特别喜欢决斗。”

“No?”
“没有？”

“You sound surprised.”
“你听起来很惊讶。”

“You’re good at fighting, Hermione. Surviving. Most people like the things they're good at.”
“你很擅长战斗，赫敏。生存。大多数人都喜欢他们擅长的事情。

As she pushed his shirt fully open, he allowed her to see that he had scars of his own. A surprising number of them for a man who was so notoriously slippery – some large and others barely visible. Her fingers traced them, drawn to those highlighted by the glow of the moonlight.
当她把他的衬衫完全推开时，他让她看到他自己也有伤疤。对于一个出了名的滑溜溜的人来说，数量之多令人惊讶——有些很大，有些几乎看不见。她的手指划过它们，被月光的光芒所吸引。

“Good at surviving” she repeated softly, her eyes briefly darting up to meet his. “I could say the same for you, I suppose.”
“善于生存，”她轻声重复道，她的眼睛短暂地抬起头来与他对视。“我想，我也可以对你说同样的话。”

“There are differences in our methods,” he said, his voice low as he watched her trace his scars. “Tell me, do you think you could have beaten me?”
“我们的方法不同，”他说，看着她描摹他的伤疤，他的声音很低。“告诉我，你觉得你能打败我吗？”

Inhaling sharply through her nose, Hermione paused in her exploration of him and looked up into his face to find a knowing, mocking smirk there, as though he doubted it. Sometimes, even when she liked him, she remembered all the reasons she had not to.
赫敏用鼻子猛地吸了一口气，停下了对他的探索，抬头看着他的脸，发现那里露出一个会心的、嘲讽的笑容，仿佛他对此表示怀疑。有时，即使她喜欢他，她也会记住所有她不必记住的理由。

“Yes,” she said, eyes locking firmly with his.
“是的，”她说，眼睛紧紧地盯着他。

A white grin flashed over his face and Hermione pressed her fingers down into his flesh, her eyes narrowing slightly. “Such confidence, Miss Granger,” he said. “Verging on arrogance.”
他的脸上闪过一丝白皙的笑容，赫敏将手指压入他的肉中，她的眼睛微微眯起。“真有信心，格兰杰小姐，”他说。“近乎傲慢。”

“It’s like you said: I’m good at surviving. And I think we both know my life would have depended on beating you, Mr Malfoy .”
“就像你说的：我很擅长生存。我想我们都知道我的生命将取决于打败你，马尔福先生。

A part of Hermione knew it was the wrong thing to say. The sharp, pointed, ugly thing to say. But there were times when talking to Lucius felt like engaging in a duel and in duelling she’d learned that, in order to get the upper hand — to survive — sometimes it was better to do the wrong thing fast than the right thing slowly. It was a hard lesson to unlearn.
赫敏的一部分知道说这话是错误的。说起来尖锐、尖锐、丑陋。但有时候，和Lucius交谈感觉就像在进行一场决斗，在决斗中，她学到了，为了占上风——为了生存——有时快点做错事总比慢慢做对事要好。这是一个难以忘却的教训。

She wasn’t surprised, then, when the smile slipped from Lucius' face. Without warning, he moved forward. He backed her up to the bed until her knees hit the edge of it, forcing her to drop into a sitting position with a heaviness that made her bounce on the mattress with a winded ‘ umph’ . 
那么，当 Lucius 的脸上滑落时，她并不感到惊讶。毫无征兆地，他向前走。他把她靠在床上，直到她的膝盖碰到床的边缘，迫使她沉重地坐着，使她在床垫上弹跳，发出一声蜿蜒的“呜呜”声。

Hermione swallowed, eyeing him from her lower position and realising that it made her quite vulnerable. Heart racing, her fingers curling into the thick duvet beneath her, she lowered her eyes to his legs, looking past them to where her top had been carelessly cast onto the floor.
赫敏咽了口口水，从较低的位置看着他，意识到这让她变得相当脆弱。心跳加速，她的手指蜷缩在身下厚厚的羽绒被里，她低头看向他的双腿，目光越过双腿，看向她的上衣被粗心地扔在地板上的地方。

Then, quite against her expectations, his stance shifted and she stared, wide-eyed, as he lowered himself to his knees. His still, inscrutable face came into view before her and his hands curved around her calves, his fingers stroking the delicate skin around her ankles with a gentleness that sent a shiver racing through her. 
然后，出乎她意料的是，他的立场发生了变化，她睁大了眼睛盯着他，看着他跪了下来。他那张静止的、高深莫测的脸出现在她面前，他的手在她的小腿上弯曲，他的手指抚摸着她脚踝上娇嫩的皮肤，温柔地让她全身颤抖。

“I suspect you could have brought me to my knees,” he said quietly. “And, do you know, Hermione, I believe a small part of you would have enjoyed it.”
“我怀疑你会让我跪下，”他轻声说。“而且，你知道吗，赫敏，我相信你中的一小部分人会喜欢它。”

Hermione swallowed the saliva she hadn’t even realised had been gathering in her mouth. “Enjoyed what exactly?”
赫敏吞下了她甚至没有意识到已经聚集在她嘴里的唾液。“到底享受了什么？”

“Having me at your mercy.” Hermione was just starting to shake her head when he nodded his disagreement. “Oh, yes. You would have. You have that in you. We all do. The question is: would you have been merciful?” 
“让我任你摆布。”赫敏刚开始摇头，他就点头表示不同意。“哦，是的。你会的。你有这种能力。我们都是这样。问题是：你会怜悯吗？

Even with Lucius kneeling before her in the pale light of the bedroom, Hermione struggled to imagine how it would have felt to have the old him – the cold, sneering superior version of him that she didn’t know or like at all – brought to his knees before her. It would have been a responsibility she wouldn’t have wanted. One she wouldn’t have been prepared for. But if it had happened?
即使卢修斯跪在卧室苍白的灯光下，赫敏也难以想象如果那个老的他——那个她根本不认识或根本不喜欢的冷酷、冷嘲热讽的优越版本——在她面前跪下会是什么感觉。这将是她不想要的责任。她不会为此做好准备。但如果它真的发生了呢？

“Yes,” she said, meeting his eyes. “Of course.”
“是的，”她说，与他的眼睛对上。“当然。”

His responding smile was grim, thin, even slightly regretful, but there was some satisfaction in it too. “What a relief it might have been to be at the mercy of someone who actually had it to give.”
他回应的笑容是严峻的、稀薄的，甚至略带遗憾，但其中也有一些满足。“如果任由一个真正有钱的人摆布，那将是一种多么大的解脱。”

Head bent, he trailed his hands down her legs and slipped her trainers from her feet. Hermione watched him in stunned silence, her heart hammering. “Lie back, Hermione.” 
他低着头，双手顺着她的腿滑下，把她的运动鞋从她的脚上滑下来。赫敏目瞪口呆地看着他，她的心怦怦直跳。“躺下吧，赫敏。”

She hesitated but when he glanced up and raised his eyebrows admonishingly she relented, her upper body lying across the bed while her legs continued to dangle over the side. Reaching up, he undid the button on her shorts and began drawing them down with her knickers. An involuntary groan escaped her as his fingertips skimmed her bare skin.
她犹豫了一下，但当他抬起头来，告诫地扬起眉毛时，她心软了，她的上半身横躺在床上，而她的双腿继续悬在床边。他伸手解开了她短裤上的纽扣，开始用她的短裤把它们拉下来。当他的指尖滑过她裸露的皮肤时，她不由自主地发出了呻吟。

“Hips up,” he murmured. Breath speeding up rapidly, Hermione helped him, raising her hips from the bed. “That’s it. Good.”
“翘起臀部，”他喃喃自语。赫敏呼吸急促，帮助他，从床上抬起臀部。“就是这样。很好。

Hermione swallowed hard at the sound of his softly uttered praise, her eyes fixed firmly on the dusky pink canopy above her as he drew her shorts down her legs. It made her feel strange – a mixture of gratified and embarrassed. She so rarely received any kind of approbation now that she’d left Hogwarts. If anything, she was continually doing the things that people didn’t want. Leaving Ron, leaving the Ministry, interviewing Malfoys…never mind anything else. Quiet disapproval had become her life. Yet here she was, pleasing a man she had once thought incapable of feeling pleasure. Of feeling anything positive.
赫敏听到他轻柔的赞美，用力咽了口口水，她的眼睛紧紧地盯着头顶上暗淡的粉红色天篷，他把她的短裤拉到她的腿上。这让她感到奇怪——既满足又尴尬。自从她离开霍格沃茨以来，她很少得到任何形式的认可。如果有的话，她一直在做人们不想要的事情。离开罗恩，离开魔法部，采访马尔福......别的都别管。无声的不赞成已经成为她的生活。然而她就在这里，取悦着一个她曾经认为无法感受到快乐的男人。感觉任何积极的东西。

Feeling a chill pass over her thighs, a discordant heat travelled from the top of Hermione’s head down to her toes as she realised she was entirely exposed to him for the first time. Every bit of her. Leaning up on her elbows, she looked down just in time to find him placing his hands on her knees, preparing to part her legs. She’d desired intimacy but this felt too…almost too much . How long had it been since she’d been so exposed? To anyone?
感觉到一股寒意从她的大腿上掠过，一股不和谐的热量从赫敏的头顶一直传到她的脚趾，因为她意识到她第一次完全暴露在他面前。她的每一点。她靠在她的手肘上，低头看去，正好发现他把手放在她的膝盖上，准备分开她的双腿。她渴望亲密，但这也感觉......几乎太多了。她有多久没有这么暴露了？对任何人？

“Lucius –” she began hurriedly. 
“卢修斯——”她急忙开口。

“Lie back,” he said sternly.
“躺下，”他严肃地说。

“Lucius you really don’t have to –”
“卢修斯，你真的不必——”

“Goodness, Hermione, am I to understand that my son was, in fact, right? That you really can’t simply accept nice things?”
“天哪，赫敏，我能明白我的儿子其实是对的吗？你真的不能简单地接受美好事物吗？

Opening and closing her mouth several times, Hermione finally let out a frustrated huff and lifted her elbows so that she dropped back on the bed with a hard thump . How dare he use Draco against her? She could accept nice things; his son was just a snide bloody git . A trait that was clearly hereditary. 
赫敏张开又闭上嘴巴好几次，终于沮丧地喘了口气，抬起手肘，狠狠地砰的一声倒在了床上。他怎么敢利用德拉科来对付她？她可以接受美好的事物;他的儿子只是一个冷嘲热讽的血腥 git。这种特征显然是遗传的。

A low, rumbling chuckle from Lucius brought her brows low in a frown. “I’m going to teach you to be less manipulable,” he said, “but for now I’ll enjoy it.”
卢修斯低沉而隆隆的笑声使她皱起了眉头。“我要教你不要那么容易纵，”他说，“但现在我会享受它。

A spike of irritation immediately halted when she felt his lips against the bare skin of her calf. With a sharp intake of breath, Hermione forced herself to close her eyes and restrained her instinct to jerk away like a skittish animal.
当她感觉到他的嘴唇贴在她小腿裸露的皮肤上时，一股恼怒立即停止了。赫敏猛地吸了一口气，强迫自己闭上眼睛，克制住自己像一只轻快的动物一样猛地抽搐的本能。

He was soft at first, his lips working their way up her leg, nuzzling the crook of her knee. Then he lightly bit her inner thigh and lathed the affected area with his tongue, eliciting a soft groan from her as he rose higher and higher. Without even thinking about it, Hermione parted her legs wider to give him more access. 
起初他很柔软，他的嘴唇顺着她的腿向上滑，轻抚着她的膝盖弯。然后他轻轻地咬住她的大腿内侧，用舌头在受影响的区域起泡，随着他越来越高，她发出了轻柔的呻吟。赫敏想都没想，就把她的双腿分开了，让他有更多的机会。

“Am I right in thinking that you want me to keep going?” he asked, a definite tremble of amusement in his voice. 
“我这么想你希望我继续下去是对的吗？”他问道，声音里带着明显的逗乐。

“Yes,” she replied, breathless. 
“是的，”她气喘吁吁地回答。

He continued to work his way up and manoeuvred her legs so that they went over his shoulders, her heels brushing against his back and his fingers spanning her hips. Her hands tightened into fists when she felt the heat of his breath against her core and then, before she could change her mind, he licked her in one smooth motion.  Hermione whined, her hips jerking, and he tightened his hold on her to keep her in place. As his tongue danced over her clit, Hermione gripped the duvet beneath her in both fists, soft pleas escaping her lips. 
他继续往上走，操纵她的双腿，让它们越过他的肩膀，她的高跟鞋擦过他的背，他的手指跨过她的臀部。当她感觉到他的呼吸对她的核心的热度时，她的手紧握成拳头，然后，在她改变主意之前，他以一个流畅的动作舔了舔她。赫敏呻吟着，她的臀部抽搐着，他紧紧抓住她，让她保持在原地。当他的舌头在她的阴蒂上跳舞时，赫敏用双拳紧紧抓住她身下的羽绒被，轻柔的恳求从她的嘴唇中逸出。

It was hard for her to fully comprehend that Lucius Malfoy was the person kneeling between her spread legs, feasting on her like a man starving but oh did she feel good about it. He grazed his teeth over her clit, making her hips jerk violently upward, and he chuckled darkly against her.  
她很难完全理解卢修斯·马尔福就是那个跪在她张开的双腿之间，像个饥饿的男人一样大快朵颐的人，但哦，她对此感觉很好。他用牙齿擦过她的阴蒂，让她的臀部猛烈地向上抽搐，他对着她暗暗地笑了起来。

“Is this intimate enough, Hermione?” he asked, replacing his tongue on her clit with his thumb as he spoke.
“这够亲密吗，赫敏？”他问道，一边说一边用拇指代替了她的阴蒂上的舌头。

“Yes,” Hermione gasped at the canopy, raising her head an inch or two to glare down at him. “Just keep going .” 
“是的，”赫敏对着天篷喘着粗气，抬起头看了他一两英寸。“继续前进。”

She felt as much as heard his soft laugh as he returned to her, the vibrations of it passing through her pleasurably. Hermione had thought she couldn’t feel much better, a telling coil tightening in her belly, when he eased a finger into her. 
当他回到她身边时，她感觉到他轻柔的笑声，它的振动愉快地穿过她。赫敏以为她感觉好不到哪里了，当他把一根手指伸进她身上时，她的肚子里有个明显的线圈在收紧。

Crying out, she grabbed more tightly at the bed and one of her legs lifted off his shoulder, drawn up towards her body as though on a marionette string. Not to be distracted, Lucius slid his hand from her hip to her thigh and held her leg in place around his head, his finger curling inside her while his tongue danced against her.
她大声喊叫，更紧地抓住床，她的一条腿从他的肩膀上抬起，像牵着木偶绳子一样向她的身体拉去。为了不分心，卢修斯将手从她的臀部滑到她的大腿上，将她的腿绕在他的头上，他的手指蜷曲在她体内，同时他的舌头在她身上跳舞。

“Will you speak to me again?” she asked, eyes tight shut as she tried to focus on bringing her orgasm closer. 
“你还会再和我说话吗？”她问道，紧闭着眼睛，试图集中精力让她的高潮更近。

Lucius stopped his ministrations with his tongue, replacing it with his thumb again. “My mouth is rather busy at the moment,” he said, sounding somewhat short of breath.
卢修斯停止了他用舌头的侍奉，再次用拇指代替了它。“我现在的嘴巴很忙，”他说，听起来有点喘不过气来。

A desperate, mortified laugh escaped her mouth and she clapped a hand over her eyes. “Yes, obviously. No. Never mind. Keep going.”
她绝望而羞愧的笑声从她的嘴里逸出，她用一只手捂住了自己的眼睛。“是的，显然。不。没关系。继续前进。

Lucius’ finger continued to curl inside her, his thumb circling her clit languidly. It was enough to feel pleasurable but not enough to take her as close to the edge as she’d been before.  “Why don’t you try?”
卢修斯的手指继续在她体内蜷曲，他的拇指懒洋洋地绕着她的阴蒂。这足以让她感到愉悦，但不足以让她像以前一样接近边缘。“你为什么不试试呢？”

“Try what?” she asked distractedly, shifting her hips to try to make him move faster.
“试试什么？”她心不在焉地问道，摆动着臀部，试图让他移动得更快。

“Talking. I told you I want to know what you like, whether you know it or not. Just…speak. And listen to yourself.”
“说话。我告诉你我想知道你喜欢什么，不管你是否知道。只是......说。听你自己说。

“I don’t know if I –” Her breath hitched as he increased the pressure and speed of his thumb. “Can.”
“我不知道我是不是——”随着他加大拇指的压力和速度，她的呼吸急促起来。“可以。”

“Tell me what you want,” he said. “I refuse to believe a witch as bossy as you can’t do that.”
“告诉我你想要什么，”他说。“我拒绝相信像你这样专横的女巫不能那样做。”

“Shut up,” Hermione snapped, raising her head an inch to look down at him.
“闭嘴，”赫敏厉声说，抬起头一英寸低头看着他。

“See?”
“看到了吗？”

Hermione’s head dropped back onto the bed, her laugh garbled by a moan as Lucius returned his mouth to her with greater assiduousness than before. “Just keep doing that,” she said, her hand grabbing at the duvet beneath her. “But faster,” she added after a moment of consideration, her brow furrowed with concentration. 
赫敏的头落回床上，她的笑声被呻吟弄得乱七八糟，卢修斯比以前更加努力地把嘴还给她。“继续这样做，”她说，她的手抓着她下面的羽绒被。“但更快，”她考虑了片刻后补充道，她的眉头因专注而皱起。

Good as his word, Lucius obliged and Hermione’s mouth dropped open, her back arching from the bed. “More,” she groaned.
正如他所说的那样，卢修斯答应了，赫敏张大了嘴巴，她的背从床上拱了起来。“更多，”她呻吟道。

The stretch as he slid a second digit into her was delicious and Hermione reached down, her hand coming to his head in a blessing. With two fingers, he was able to press more against the spot inside of her that made her vision blur. 
当他将第二个手指滑入她体内时，这种伸展很美味，赫敏伸出手来，她的手以一种祝福的方式伸向他的头。他用两根手指，能够更多地按压她体内使她视线模糊的地方。

Doing her best to listen to nothing but her own gasps of pleasure, Hermione tried to focus on the building pressure, picturing it as a bubble ready to burst. “Please just keep going,” she said, the words all coming out in a desperate rush. “It feels so good. You’re so good. Please.”
赫敏尽力只听她自己快乐的喘息声，她试图把注意力集中在建筑的压力上，把它想象成一个准备破裂的泡沫。“请继续，”她说，这些话都是在绝望的匆忙中说出来的。“感觉真好。你太棒了。拜托了。

Hermione cried out as he sucked at her clit and the bubble burst. Pleasure rushed out across her body from her centre as her legs tightened around Lucius’ head. Words of adoration tumbled out of her mouth as he licked her through her orgasm, the movements of his fingers slowing when she squeezed vice-like around them.
赫敏吮吸着她的阴蒂喊道，泡沫破灭了。当她的双腿紧紧地缠住卢修斯的头时，快感从她的身体中心涌出。当他舔舐她达到高潮时，崇拜的话语从她的嘴里滚出，当她像虎钳一样挤压他们时，他的手指动作放慢了。

Body heavy and tired, Hermione relaxed against the bed, whining as Lucius withdrew his fingers from her. Distantly, she could hear him getting to his feet but she wasn’t especially interested in what he was doing, wrapped as she was in the warm, pleasant afterglow of her orgasm. 
赫敏的身体沉重而疲惫，放松地靠在床上，当卢修斯将手指从她身上抽出时，他发出了呻吟。在远处，她可以听到他站起来的声音，但她对他在做什么并不特别感兴趣，因为她被包裹在高潮的温暖、愉快的余晖中。

“Make some room.” 
“腾出一些空间。”

Hermione’s eyes flickered open to find that, as she’d thought, Lucius had risen to his feet and was looking down on her as he undid the buttons on his trousers. Hermione mumbled incoherently, her muscles feeling more like a viscous liquid than anything that she could rely on for movement. 
赫敏睁开眼睛一闪而过，发现正如她所想的那样，卢修斯已经站了起来，在解开裤子上的纽扣时俯视着她。赫敏语无伦次地喃喃自语，她的肌肉感觉更像是一种粘稠的液体，而不是她可以依靠的任何运动。

“Don’t be lazy, Granger. I’m certainly not through with you yet.”
“别偷懒，格兰杰。我肯定还没和你说完。

A thrum of desire went through Hermione at his words, strong enough to give her the motivation to roll onto her stomach and rise onto her knees so that she could crawl further onto the bed to make room for him. 
赫敏听到他的话，一阵欲望涌上心头，强烈到足以让她有动力趴下，跪在地上，这样她就可以进一步爬到床上，为他腾出空间。

“Wait,” came Lucius’ voice from behind just as she began her crawl, facing away from him. “Stay there.”
“等等，”就在她开始爬行时，卢修斯的声音从背后传来。“待在那里。”

Hermione looked over her shoulder with a frown to see him divesting himself of the last of his clothing, his eyes roving hungrily over her body. She moved to turn around to get a proper look at him when he placed his hands on her hips, holding her in place.
赫敏皱着眉头回头看，看到他脱掉了最后的衣服，他的眼睛饥渴地在她的身体上扫荡。当他把手放在她的臀部上，把她固定在原地时，她转过身来好好看他一眼。

“Forward just a little,” he said, guiding her with her hands. 
“向前走一点，”他说，一边用手引导她。

Feeling increasingly flustered, Hermione did as he asked but without much enthusiasm. “I’m not one of your dogs, Lucius,” she said irritably. “You can’t just –”
赫敏感到越来越慌乱，按照他的要求做了，但没有太多的热情。“我不是你的狗，卢修斯，”她恼怒地说。“你不能就——”

She stopped when she felt the bed dip as he kneeled on it behind her and her cheeks grew even warmer for a completely different reason as she realised that meant he was just as naked as her. She was just considering turning when she felt one of his warm hands run up her thigh while the other stroked down her back. There was a soft reverence to his touch that made her eyes flutter closed and her stomach pull in.
当他跪在她身后的床上时，她感觉到床下沉了，她的脸颊因为完全不同的原因变得更加温暖，因为她意识到这意味着他和她一样赤身裸体。她正想转身，就感觉到他一只温暖的手顺着她的大腿滑上去，而另一只手则抚摸着她的背。对他的抚摸有一种柔和的崇敬，使她颤抖着闭上了眼睛，她的胃缩了进去。

“I shouldn’t look too much into this, should I?” she asked, properly turning her head to look over her shoulder at him again and forcing some amusement into her voice. “Facing me away.”
“我不应该太仔细地研究这个，对吧？”她问道，适当地转过头来再次回头看向他，并在她的声音中强行挤出一些乐趣。“背对着我。”

“On the contrary.” He placed a gentle finger on her jaw and pushed to turn her head so that she was staring straight ahead at the wall opposite. What she saw made her heart falter – a long, ornate mirror hanging on the wall reflected her flushed face and hanging breasts back at her, the pale, lean figure of Lucius kneeling behind her. 
“恰恰相反。”他将一根温柔的手指放在她的下巴上，推动她转过头，使她直直地盯着对面的墙壁。她所看到的景象让她的心怦怦直跳——墙上挂着一面华丽的长镜子，映照着她通红的脸庞和垂下的乳房，跪在她身后的卢修斯苍白、瘦弱的身影。

“Oh.”
“哦。”

“Oh,” he repeated, a slightly mocking lilt to his voice. 
“哦，”他重复道，声音中带着些许嘲讽的轻快。

As Hermione watched them in the mirror with no small amount of fascination, a spike of panic lanced through her. “Wait, no, it’s not enchanted, is it? This mirror.”
当赫敏以不小的迷恋看着镜子里的他们时，一丝恐慌在她身上蔓延开来。“等等，不，它没有被施附，是吗？这面镜子。

Lucius chuckled, running a hand smoothly down her back before squeezing a handful of her backside. In the mirror, Hermione could quite clearly see his satisfied smile as he looked down at her, head tilted appreciatively. 
卢修斯咯咯地笑了起来，一只手顺着她的背滑下来，然后捏了一把她的后背。在镜子里，赫敏可以清楚地看到他低头看着她时满意的笑容，欣赏地歪着头。

“No,” he said, dragging his eyes up to meet hers. “This one is perfectly ordinary. There are bedrooms with enchanted mirrors, though, if you’d…prefer an audience?”
“不，”他说，抬起眼睛与她对视。“这个完全普通。不过，有些卧室配有魔法镜子，如果你愿意的话......更喜欢观众吗？

“No!” Hermione said, her voice jumping up an octave. 
“不！”赫敏说，她的声音提高了一个八度。

“Are you sure?” he asked teasingly. “Mirrors don’t blush and you could ask for feedback. They’re often quite willing to give it. I know you like to be told when you’re doing well.”
“你确定吗？”“镜子不会脸红，你可以寻求反馈。他们通常非常愿意付出。我知道你喜欢在你表现好的时候被人说。

“I do – that’s not – no, I don’t .”
“我愿意——那不是——不，我没有。”

“Oh, really?” Hermione drew in a sharp breath as he dragged his knuckles up the sensitive skin of her inner thigh, just turning his hand as he reached her core to cup her. Her eyes fell closed and her mouth dropped open as he gathered her wetness on his fingers and spread it along her slit. “You think I didn’t notice, Hermione, that you responded most favourably to my more positive reinforcements the other night?”
“哦，真的吗？”赫敏猛地吸了一口气，用指关节顺着她大腿内侧敏感的皮肤往上爬，只是在伸手摸到她的核心时转过身来，把她罩住。她闭上了眼睛，张大了嘴巴，他把她的湿漉漉的湿漉漉的捡起来，沿着她的缝隙涂抹。“你以为我没有注意到，赫敏，你那天晚上对我更积极的强化反应是最积极的？”

He eased two fingers inside of her and Hermione gasped, her back arching and her elbows shaking as they suddenly struggled to support her upper body. 
他把两根手指伸进她的体内，赫敏喘着粗气，她的背弓着，她的手肘在颤抖，因为它们突然挣扎着支撑她的上半身。

“In fact, if I recall our last encounter correctly – and I know I do –” Lucius said conversationally, as though he was not beginning to pump his fingers in and out of her, “did you not come only after I asked you to be a good little witch and do it for me?”
“事实上，如果我没记错我们上次的相遇——我知道我是这样——”卢修斯伶俐地说，仿佛他还没有开始在她身上手指，“你不是在我让你成为一个好小女巫并为我做这件事之后才来的吗？

“Coincidence,” she ground out, her already closed eyes squeezing more tightly as she recalled that moment. So she had enjoyed it but it hadn’t been only that – it had been everything about that moment that had pushed her over the edge.
“巧合，”她停下脚步，回想起那一刻，她已经闭着的眼睛捏得更紧了。所以她很享受，但不仅仅是那——是那一刻的一切把她推到了边缘。

“Coincidence,” he repeated flatly. Hermione whimpered with disappointment when he withdrew his fingers from her, carelessly wiping the wetness across her lower back. “Look at me, Hermione.”
“巧合，”他平淡地重复道。赫敏失望地呜咽着，他把手指从她身上抽出来，漫不经心地擦了擦她下背部的湿漉漉的。“看着我，赫敏。”

Taking a steadying breath, Hermione opened her eyes and looked into the mirror, meeting the gaze of his reflection. He held eye contact with her as, one hand on her hip, he took himself in his other hand and pressed himself against her entrance. The pleasurable pressure of it made Hermione’s eyelashes flutter but she continued to look at him, lips parted to accommodate her laboured breathing, as he started to push slowly into her. 
赫敏稳住呼吸，睁开眼睛，看着镜子，与他倒影的目光相遇。他与她保持眼神交流，一只手放在她的臀部上，另一只手握住自己，把自己压在她的入口处。这种令人愉悦的压力让赫敏的睫毛颤动着，但她继续看着他，嘴唇张开以适应她吃力的呼吸，他开始慢慢地插入她。

In the mirror, she could see that his jaw was clenched tight, a sign that he was exercising a good deal of self-control. His fingertips digging into her hip bordered on painful, contrasting with the exquisite stretch of him filling her inch by inch. 
在镜子里，她可以看到他的下巴紧紧地咬着，这表明他正在锻炼大量的自制力。他的指尖深深地探入她的臀部，近乎痛苦，与他一寸一寸地填满她的精致伸展形成鲜明对比。

“Such a good girl for me, Hermione,” he said, his voice barely more than a rumble. Bringing both of his hands to grip her hips, he sheathed himself in her completely with a roll of his hips and a satisfied grunt. “Taking me so well.” 
“真是个好女孩，赫敏，”他说，他的声音几乎只是隆隆的。他用双手抓住她的臀部，臀部一转，满意地咕哝着，将自己完全包裹在她体内。“把我带得太好了。”

A drawn out moan from Hermione accompanied his words, her chin dropping towards her chest and her fingers curling tightly in the duvet. The combination of the sound of his voice and the feeling of him created a gentle, pleasant buzzing in her brain.
赫敏发出一声拖长的呻吟，她的下巴垂向胸前，手指紧紧地卷曲在羽绒被里。他的声音和他的感觉相结合，在她的大脑中产生了一种温柔、悦耳的嗡嗡声。

“Another coincidence?” Lucius asked slyly, unmoving and buried inside of her. Hermione’s head snapped up, her eyes wide as they met Lucius’ in the mirror. 
“又是巧合？”卢修斯狡猾地问道，一动不动，埋在她的心里。赫敏猛地抬起头，睁大了眼睛，与镜子里的卢修斯相遇。

"You know you can be such a —" Her breath hitched as he withdrew from her. "Prat".
“你知道你可以是这样的——”当他从她身边退出时，她的呼吸急促起来。“噼啪啪”。

None too gently, Lucius re-entered her in one smooth motion, forcing a surprised huff from her throat. "Brat," he retorted.
卢修斯毫不温柔地以一个流畅的动作重新进入她，迫使她的喉咙发出惊讶的喘息。“小子，”他反驳道。

Hermione caught his eye again in the mirror, puffing out a single disbelieving laugh as clear amusement flitted over his face. She believed he saw her that way. She also believed that he liked it.
赫敏再次对上镜子，不敢置信地笑了起来，脸上闪过明显的喜悦。她相信他是那样看待她的。她也相信他喜欢它。

He pushed gently on her back and Hermione lowered herself to lean on her elbows, eyes fixed on their reflection and the spectacle of the sensuous line of her back leading up to where Lucius was thrusting against her. His hands shifted up her hips, his thumbs coming to rest in the dips of her lower back, as though anchoring her. 
他轻轻地推了推她的背，赫敏低下身子靠在她的手肘上，眼睛盯着他们的倒影和她背部的性感线条，一直到卢修斯对她的地方。他的手沿着她的臀部向上移动，他的拇指停在她的下背部凹陷处，仿佛固定住了她。

Sliding her knees wider, Hermione pushed back to meet him and earned a low growl of approval that only increased her enthusiasm. 
赫敏把膝盖滑得更宽，推开了他，赢得了一声低沉的赞同咆哮，这只会增加她的热情。

It was hard to remove her eyes from the mirror – she hardly recognised the witch before her who was wearing a glazed, almost drunk expression. There was no denying, however, that she was happy to be that witch and the mirror didn’t need to be enchanted to help her understand that.  Arching her back and stretching her arms out, Hermione changed the angle of Lucius’ thrusts and moaned as he began to persistently brush against a point inside her that transformed the world little more than white noise. With a desperate whine she met his eyes in the mirror. 
她很难把眼睛从镜子上移开——她几乎认不出眼前的那个面容呆滞、几乎喝醉了的女巫。然而，不可否认的是，她很高兴成为那个女巫，而镜子不需要被施法来帮助她理解这一点。赫敏弓起背，伸出双臂，改变了卢修斯的角度，呻吟着开始持续地抚摸她体内的一个点，这个点改变了世界，只不过是白噪音。她绝望地呻吟着，对上了他在镜子里的眼睛。

“Tell me what you want, Hermione,” he said. “I’ll give you anything you want.”
“告诉我你想要什么，赫敏，”他说。“你想要什么我都给你。”

“More,” she said, barely recognising the hoarseness of her own voice. 
“更多，”她说，几乎认不出自己声音的嘶哑。

Clearly interpreting her vague request to mean harder and faster, Lucius redoubled his efforts. Hermione buried her face in the duvet, attempting to muffle her wail into it.  Immediately, Lucius pushed her down deeper onto the bed so that she was almost flat against it. One of his hands moved to the side of her body to support his weight, while the other threaded in her hair and tugged her head to the side so that the next sharp breath she took in was cool, fresh air.
Lucius 清楚地将她模糊的要求解释为更难、更快，他加倍努力。赫敏把脸埋在被子里，试图把她的哀嚎压在里面。卢修斯立即将她推到床上更深的地方，使她几乎平躺在床上。他的一只手移到她身体的一侧以支撑他的重量，而另一只手则穿入她的头发，将她的头拉到一边，这样她下一次呼吸时就会呼吸到凉爽、新鲜的空气。

“No, Hermione,” he panted. “I want to hear you. Let me hear what I do to you.” Lucius pressed his face into her back, his hair ticklish against her skin, and groaned in relief when she whimpered her acquiescence. 
“不，赫敏，”他喘着粗气。“我想听你说。让我听听我对你做了什么。卢修斯把脸贴在她的背上，他的头发在她的皮肤上发痒，当她呜咽着默许时，他松了一口气。

Though it was much harder when she was pressed beneath the weight of him, Hermione pressed her knees into the bed in an attempt to push herself back into him. Once again she created an angle that allowed him to push against that point inside of her. Swearing at the intensity of the sensation, she brought her right hand down to grip at his right wrist by her head.
虽然当她被他的重量压住时要困难得多，但赫敏还是把膝盖压在床上，试图把自己推回他身上。她再一次创造了一个角度，让他能够抵挡住她体内的那个点。她发誓这种感觉的强度，将右手放下，抓住他的右手腕。

“Touch yourself,” he said, his breath hot and damp against the skin of her back. “If you can, do it.”
“摸摸你自己，”他说，他的呼吸又热又湿地贴在她的背上。“如果可以，就去做。”

One hand continuing to grip him, Hermione struggled to snake her left hand between her legs. Lucius’ rhythm was becoming faster and more erratic and she knew that he must be close to coming but she was fairly certain that she was too. She dug the nails of her right hand into his wrist to communicate that as the fingers of her left finally made contact with her clit. 
赫敏的一只手继续抓住他，挣扎着将左手蜿蜒在两腿之间。卢修斯的节奏越来越快，越来越不稳定，她知道他一定快要来了，但她相当确定她也一样。她把右手的指甲挖进他的手腕里，以传达这一点，因为她左手的手指终于接触到了她的阴蒂。

“You want to come, don’t you?” he asked, wincing against the pain of her sharp little nails. In response Hermione made a nonsensical sound but nodded her head, feeling him loosen his grip on her hair and lean his hand into the mattress by her head. “Need it?”
“你想来，不是吗？”他问道，因她锋利的小指甲的疼痛而畏缩。作为回应，赫敏发出了荒谬的声音，但她还是点了点头，感觉到他松开了抓着她头发的手，把手靠在她头边的床垫上。“需要吗？”

“I need it. Need – please.”
“我需要它。需要——拜托。

“Listen to yourself, begging so nicely. I want you to come just for me. Can you do that?”
“听你自己说，乞求真好。我希望你只为我而来。你能做到吗？

“Just for you,” she moaned, her voice shaky from the increasing force of his thrusts. 
“就为了你，”她呻吟着，她的声音因为他越来越大的力道而颤抖。

"You're going to think of me every time you come from now on. Promise me."
“从现在开始，你每次来都会想起我。答应我。

"Yes, I – Lucius –"
“是的，我——卢修斯——”

"You’re my good little witch, aren’t you? You like being good for me."
“你是我的好小巫婆，不是吗？你喜欢对我好。

"Uh huh." It was the only thing she could manage, said on an exhale. She was barely even aware of what she was agreeing to, his words more like caresses she could feel than sounds from which she was supposed to glean meaning. 
“嗯。”这是她唯一能做到的事情，她呼出一口气说。她甚至几乎不知道自己在同意什么，他的话更像是她能感受到的爱抚，而不是她应该从中汲取意义的声音。

He lowered himself so that his chest touched her back, his skin tacky against hers, the heat of him almost unbearable. Lucius buried his face in her shoulder, his lips against her skin as his words came in a stream from which she could only pick out individual words. “Hermione – deserve – so good – mine –”
他低下身子，让他的胸膛碰到她的背，他的皮肤贴在她的皮肤上发粘，他的热度几乎令人难以忍受。卢修斯把脸埋在她的肩膀上，嘴唇贴在她的皮肤上，他的话语如河般涌来，她只能从中挑选出一个个字。“赫敏——值得——太好了——我的——”

As her orgasm built, pushing her towards the edge, Hermione’s body tightened, her left hand sliding desperately in the wetness between her legs. Her knees pressed more heavily into the mattress to keep her hips elevated against the force of his thrusts, her legs folding so that her calves almost came to rest against the backs of her thighs. “Yours,” she panted desperately. "I'm yours.”
随着她的高潮建立起来，将她推向边缘，赫敏的身体收紧了，她的左手在两腿之间的湿漉漉中拼命地滑动。她的膝盖更重地压在床垫上，以保持臀部抬高以抵抗他的，她的双腿折叠起来，以至于她的小腿几乎要靠在她的大腿后部。“你的，”她绝望地喘着粗气。“我是你的。”

Lucius grunted out a curse at her words and sank his teeth into her shoulder, his orgasm hitting him with force. Just as she felt the warm rush of him come inside her, Hermione let out a drawn-out moan and shook violently, squeezing vice-like around him as she followed him over the edge into a world of pure, blinding pleasure. 
卢修斯对她的话咕哝了一声咒骂，然后用牙齿咬住她的肩膀，他的高潮用力地击中了他。就在她感觉到他温暖的冲动进入她体内时，赫敏发出一声拖长的呻吟，剧烈地颤抖着，像虎钳一样挤压着他，同时她跟着他越过边缘，进入了一个纯粹的、令人眼花缭乱的快感世界。

Face down on the bed, still enjoying the aftershocks of her orgasm, Hermione was just about aware of Lucius rolling off her and onto his back beside her, his breathing laboured. 
赫敏脸朝下躺在床上，仍然享受着她高潮的余震，她几乎注意到卢修斯从她身上滚下来，仰面躺在她身边，呼吸困难。

Very aware that her already wild hair had probably become more like a tumbleweed affixed to her scalp, Hermione leaned on her elbows and peeked over the duvet like it was a parapet so that the mirror could prove her right. Nose wrinkling, she tugged at her fringe in an effort to make it close to presentable.  
赫敏很清楚她本来就乱糟糟的头发可能已经变得更像是贴在头皮上的风滚草，她靠在胳膊肘上，像是栏杆一样偷看羽绒被，这样镜子就能证明她是对的。她皱着鼻子，扯着自己的刘海，试图让它接近体面。

Lucius stared at the canopy above them, unaware of her struggles, his chest rising and falling quickly as he caught his breath. “You really have proven to be full of surprises,” he finally said, lifting his hands to drag them down his face. 
卢修斯盯着他们上方的树冠，没有意识到她的挣扎，他的胸膛随着呼吸而迅速起伏。“你真的充满了惊喜，”他终于说，抬起双手将它们从脸上拖下来。

“All pleasant I hope,” Hermione said distractedly, giving her hair one more fruitless pat before she turned from the mirror to lean the side of her head on her palm and look at him.
“希望一切愉快，”赫敏心不在焉地说，又徒劳地拍了拍她的头发，然后她从镜子里转过身来，把头的一侧靠在手掌上，看着他。

“The balance has certainly shifted in recent weeks,” he said, pushing himself up into a sitting position. Hermione craned her neck to watch as his gaze trailed over her stretched out body, lingering on the curve of her waist and her backside. Reaching out, he ran a hand along the same path he had just plotted with his eyes.
“最近几周，平衡肯定发生了变化，”他说，一边把自己撑到坐姿。赫敏伸长脖子看着他的目光在她伸展的身体上扫过，在她的腰部和背部的曲线上徘徊。他伸出一只手，沿着他刚刚用眼睛勾勒出的同一条路径滑过。

“I could say the same,” she said, a pleasant shiver passing through her, leaving her hairs standing on end. “I’ve noticed you’re very focused on finding out what I like.”
“我也可以这么说，”她说，一阵愉快的颤抖从她身上掠过，让她的汗毛竖了起来。“我注意到你非常专注于找出我喜欢的东西。”

“Yes,” he said simply, as though he did not believe it was anywhere near as surprising as she seemed to think it was. 
“是的，”他简单地说，仿佛他不相信这并不像她想象的那么令人惊讶。

“As much as I appreciate that, you’ve yet to tell me what kind of things you enjoy.” 
“尽管我很感激，但你还没有告诉我你喜欢什么样的事情。”

Hermione pushed herself onto her knees and turned to crawl to the edge of the bed so that she could get to her feet. When she stepped onto the floor and straightened up to look over her shoulder at him, she found his eyes fixed on her, containing a hunger that she wasn’t sure she’d ever had directed at her. Ron had almost certainly looked at the feasts in the Great Hall like that but never at her. There was something singularly dispiriting about being a teenage girl and finding yourself momentarily, irrationally, envying the seductive powers of a mound of mashed potato. It lingered in the subconscious.
赫敏跪在地上，转身爬到床边，这样她就可以站起来了。当她踏上地板，直起身来回头看他时，她发现他的眼睛盯着她，带着一种她不确定自己是否曾对她有过的渴望。罗恩几乎可以肯定，他曾经那样看过礼堂里的宴会，但从来没有看过她。作为一个十几岁的女孩，发现自己瞬间、非理性地羡慕一堆土豆泥的诱人力量，这真是令人沮丧。它在潜意识中挥之不去。

Fighting her initial instinct to cover herself, Hermione allowed her arms to hang by her side and, with only a momentary clenching of her fists, she turned fully to look at him. To let him look at her. Which he did with, she noted, unabashed desire. Allowing herself to be appreciated was a new approach for her – alarmingly brazen – but she liked it. She liked him for making it possible. 
赫敏强忍着最初的本能，让她的手臂垂在身侧，只用了一会儿握紧的拳头，她就转过身来看着他。让他看着她。她注意到，他毫不掩饰地表现出了这种愿望。让自己被欣赏对她来说是一种新方法——令人震惊的厚颜无耻——但她喜欢它。她喜欢他让这一切成为可能。

“Well, I enjoyed that,” Lucius said, giving her body one last covetous sweep before he pushed himself to the edge of the bed to get to his feet with her. “Truly.”
“嗯，我很享受，”卢修斯说，贪婪地扫了她的身体最后一遍，然后他把自己推到床边，和她一起站起来。“真的。”

“How evasive of you,” Hermione said dryly, her brows lowering into a frown. 
“你真是躲避，”赫敏干巴巴地说，她的眉头弯成了眉头。

He shrugged, bending over to snatch his trousers and underwear from the bedroom floor as she slid her bra over her arms and clasped it at the back. "At least try to give me something more than that, Lucius. Tell me what you specifically might like. Something we’ve not done.” 
他耸耸肩，弯下腰从卧室的地板上抢走他的裤子和内裤，而她则把胸罩套在手臂上，扣在后面。“至少试着给我更多的东西，卢修斯。告诉我你特别喜欢什么。我们没有做过的事情。

He turned to her and Hermione’s eyes instinctively dropped to trail along his body, able to take it in fully for the first time. It was only when her gaze returned to his face that she realised he'd been watching her do it. A satisfied smirk pulled at the corner of his mouth as her cheeks burned. “I like rare things,” he said, his eyes intent on hers. “Exclusive things. Expensive things. And I like them to be mine.”
他转向她，赫敏本能地垂下眼睛，沿着他的身体滑行，第一次能够完全接受它。当她的目光回到他的脸上时，她才意识到他一直在看着她这样做。他的嘴角露出满意的笑容，她的脸颊燃烧着。“我喜欢稀有的东西，”他说，他的眼睛盯着她。“独家的东西。昂贵的东西。我喜欢他们是我的。

Hermione stepped into her knickers and pulled them up, her face grim. “I would much prefer it if you didn’t assign a value to me, Lucius.”
赫敏走进她的短裤，把它们拉起来，脸色阴沉。“如果你不给我分配一个价值，我宁愿这样，卢修斯。”

“Oh, Hermione, dear, I wouldn’t dare.” He shook his head as he began to step into his boxers, followed by his trousers. “You’re priceless.”
“哦，赫敏，亲爱的，我不敢。”他摇了摇头，开始穿上他的四角裤，然后是他的裤子。“你是无价的。”

“You don’t just mean that in the good way, do you?”
“你不只是说好话吧？”

He fastened his trousers and threw her an opaque smile. “I think I’d like to get some of the family jewels out of our Gringotts vault and have you wear nothing else.” 
他系好裤子，向她抛出一个不透明的微笑。“我想我想从我们的古灵阁金库里拿出一些家族的珠宝，让你什么都不穿。”

Hermione’s eyebrows shot up and she just about managed to stop herself falling over as she stooped to scoop her shorts from the floor.
赫敏的眉毛扬起，她弯腰从地板上舀起短裤，差点阻止自己摔倒。

"How would you feel about that?”
“你对此有什么感觉？”

“I–” Hermione straightened up, shorts in hand, and cocked her head, as though trying to decide how seriously she should take him; his sense of humour could be hard to predict but she was conscious that not once had he ever made her feel like he judged what she liked, whether she’d been previously aware of it or not. "I’d…I’d try it. ”
“我——”赫敏直起身来，手里拿着短裤，歪着头，似乎在决定她应该多认真地对待他;他的幽默感可能很难预测，但她意识到他从来没有让她觉得他会评判她喜欢什么，无论她以前是否意识到这一点。“我会......我会试试。”

“We have some lovely rubies, if that makes you feel more comfortable,” he said, sauntering towards her. “You’d be displaying house pride. And, I think, with a good strengthening charm a string of pearls could be utilised in a variety of ways.”
“我们有一些可爱的红宝石，如果那让你感觉更舒服的话，”他说，一边大步走向她。“你会表现出家族的自豪感。而且，我认为，有了好的强化咒，一串珍珠可以以多种方式使用。

“Lucius!”
“卢修斯！”

“Yes,” he continued, bending down to pick up his crumpled shirt from where it lay by her feet before straightening up to loom over her with a smug grin. “I think a trip to Gringotts will be the first thing I do when I’m able to leave the manor.” 
“是的，”他继续说，弯下腰从她脚边捡起他皱巴巴的衬衫，然后直起身来，带着得意的笑容出现在她面前。“我想去古灵阁旅行将是我离开庄园后做的第一件事。”

Hermione’s laugh was genuine as she dropped her gaze from him so that she could pull her shorts over her legs. It quietly pleased her to hear him speak of the future with any kind of positivity, even if it did revolve around wrapping her naked body in jewels. Though their interviews had only been allowed to start once he had some assurances of his freedom, she noticed that he never actually discussed it. 
赫敏的笑声是真诚的，她把目光从他身上移开，这样她就可以把短裤拉到腿上了。听到他以任何积极的态度谈论未来，她悄悄地感到高兴，即使它确实围绕着用珠宝包裹她赤裸的身体。虽然他们的采访只有在他对自己的自由有一定的保证后才被允许开始，但她注意到他从来没有真正讨论过这个问题。

There were far worse goals to have – he'd had them – and, in that moment, she felt so incredibly, inexplicably fond of him that it left her lightheaded. She liked seeing him relatively unburdened and that reminded her –
还有更糟糕的目标要去做——他已经有过了——而且，在那一刻，她觉得自己是如此难以置信，莫名其妙地喜欢他，以至于让她头晕目眩。她喜欢看到他相对轻松，这让她想起了——

“I don’t want you to contact anyone about my book,” Hermione blurted out.
“我不希望你为了我的书而联系任何人，”赫敏脱口而出。

Lucius’ eyebrows slowly rose up his forehead and he gave her a sidelong look as he slid his shirt over his shoulders. “And where, might I ask, did that come from?”
卢修斯的眉毛缓缓地扬起额头，他侧头看了她一眼，把衬衫滑到肩膀上。“那么，请问，这是从哪里来的？”

Closing the space between them to begin buttoning his shirt for him from the bottom, Hermione avoided his eyes. “I just…I noticed at dinner when Draco suggested...” She peered up at him, her brow furrowed with worry. “Your reluctance, I mean.”
赫敏拉近了他们之间的空隙，开始从底部为他扣衬衫的扣子，避开了他的眼睛。“我只是......我在晚餐时注意到德拉科提议......”她抬头凝视着他，担忧地皱起了眉头。“我是说，你的不情愿。”

Lucius opened his mouth to speak but Hermione shook her head, rushing on. “I know Draco wants you to help me but I don’t need you to. Especially if you’re not particularly keen on getting back in touch with some of these people. I know you have your name and reputation but after everything that happened in the war, well…so do I.”
卢修斯张开嘴想说话，但赫敏摇了摇头，匆匆忙忙地继续说下去。“我知道德拉科想让你帮我，但我不需要你。特别是如果您不是特别热衷于与其中一些人重新取得联系。我知道你有你的名字和名声，但在战争中发生的一切之后，嗯......我也是。

A sharp sniff of a laugh from Lucius made Hermione wince. That maybe hadn’t come out quite right. “And yours is in rather better condition than mine, hm?” he asked, a sudden bitterness to his tone. “Worried I’ll be more of a hindrance than a help, are you?”
卢修斯嗅出一阵尖锐的笑声，让赫敏畏缩了一下。这可能不是很正确。“而且你的状况比我的好得多，嗯？”他问道，语气中突然变得苦涩。“你担心我会成为更多的阻碍而不是帮助，是吗？”

“That’s not why I’m telling you not to do it, Lucius,” Hermione said, stopping her buttoning to grip his shirt and tug it sharply in reproach. “I’m telling you not to do it because I don’t want you to do something you don’t want to do. It’s that simple. Don’t pretend you’re eager; I saw your face.”
“那不是我告诉你不要这样做的原因，卢修斯，”赫敏说，停下扣子，抓住他的衬衫，责备地猛烈地拉扯它。“我告诉你不要这样做，因为我不希望你做你不想做的事情。就这么简单。不要假装你很热心;我看到了你的脸。

He glared down at her intently for a moment and then, with a soft, defeated sigh, he prized her hands from his shirt and continued buttoning it himself. “One of the most disarming things about you, Hermione,” he said, raising his chin to adjust his collar, “is how easy I’ve come to find believing in you and your good intentions.”
他目不转睛地瞪了她一会儿，然后，轻轻地、沮丧地叹了口气，他把她的手从衬衫上抽出来，继续自己扣上扣子。“你最让人放松的一点是，赫敏，”他说，抬起下巴调整了一下衣领，“就是我很容易就发现相信你和你的好意。

Hermione wrapped her arms around her bare waist, her lower lip caught between her teeth. “You don’t sound entirely happy about that.”
赫敏搂着她裸露的腰，她的下唇夹在她的牙齿之间。“你听起来对此并不完全满意。”

“I feel safer armed,” he said, an oddly twisted smile appearing on his face. It straightened into a more serious, sincere expression and he placed his hands on her upper arms and squeezed. “But thank you.”
“我觉得有武器更安全，”他说，脸上浮现出奇怪扭曲的笑容。它变成了一个更严肃、更真诚的表情，他把手放在她的上臂上，捏了捏。“不过谢谢你。”

“You’re not a hindrance, you know,” Hermione said. “I wasn’t going to be satisfied with this work until I got to talk to you. That makes you the opposite of a hindrance.”
“你不是障碍，你知道的，”赫敏说。“在我和你交谈之前，我不会对这项工作感到满意。这使你成为障碍的对立面。

Lucius’ jaw slid to the side slightly and he raised his chin, a thoughtful but pleased look flitting over his face as he looked over Hermione’s head. “Yes, it does, doesn’t it? I did think that once.”
卢修斯的下巴微微滑向一边，他抬起下巴，当他越过赫敏的头时，脸上闪过一丝若有所思但欣喜的表情。“是的，确实如此，不是吗？我确实曾经这么想过。

“So perhaps try to take what I say and do in good faith.”
“所以，也许可以试着真诚地接受我所说的和所做的。”

Lucius’ shoulders jumped as he barked out a laugh and he looked back down at Hermione with his eyebrows raised. “It’s in my very name to do the opposite, never mind my nature.”
卢修斯的肩膀跳了起来，大笑起来，他抬起眉毛回头看着赫敏。“做相反的事情就是以我的名义，别管我的本性。”

Hermione’s returning smile was half-hearted and Lucius moved his hand from her arm to lift her chin so that she was looking at him properly. “I’ll try,” he said. 
赫敏的笑容是半心半意的，卢修斯把手从她的手臂上移开，抬起她的下巴，这样她就可以好好地看着他了。“我试试，”他说。

His thumb brushed over her lower lip and he stroked the soft skin of her cheek. “You should know that my reticence doesn’t come from a lack of desire to help you. It’s that, with my life as it is, I do not feel…equipped to ask for favours. Favours tend to involve a certain amount of give and take and I am no longer useful enough to anyone to be able to offer anything in return. Other than galleons, of course, but I find even those do little for me these days.” His smile was mirthless. “It's frustrating and I…well, I prefer not to think about it."
他的拇指拂过她的下唇，抚摸着她脸颊柔软的皮肤。“你应该知道，我的沉默并不是因为缺乏帮助你的愿望。而是，以我的生活现状，我不觉得......有能力要求别人帮忙。恩惠往往涉及一定程度的付出和索取，我对任何人都不再有用，无法提供任何回报。当然，除了大帆船之外，但我发现现在即使是那些对我也没什么用。他的笑容是无情的。“这很令人沮丧，我......嗯，我宁愿不去想这件事。

Hermione nodded and took a step forward so that she was pressed against him, lifting her arms to wrap them around his middle. His immediate response was to stiffen and Hermione couldn’t help but smile — fucking in front of a mirror barely made him bat an eye but an unannounced hug could throw him off kilter. 
赫敏点点头，向前迈了一步，这样她就被压在他身上，抬起手臂搂住他的中间。他的第一反应是僵硬起来，赫敏忍不住笑了——在镜子前做爱几乎不会让他睁大眼睛，但一个突然的拥抱可能会让他不安。

Hearing the gentle rumble of his throat clearing, Hermione then felt his arms come around her. The sense of intimacy that she’d been seeking rushed through her. It made her chest ache in a way that wasn’t unpleasant but nor did she find it purely enjoyable, either — it was like nostalgia for the present.
听到他清嗓子的轻柔隆隆声，赫敏感觉到他的手臂搂住了她。她一直在寻求的亲密感在她心中涌动。这让她的胸口痛得并不难受，但她也不觉得这纯粹是愉快的——这就像对现在的怀旧。

“Not everything has to be transactional, Lucius.”
“不是所有事情都必须是交易性的，Lucius。”

“No,” he acknowledged. “But most things are. Consider how we became acquainted.”
“不，”他承认。“但大多数事情都是这样。想想我们是怎么认识的。

“True.” Hermione lifted her head from his chest and turned to plant a delicate kiss on it. “But consider where we are now.”
“是的。”赫敏从他的胸前抬起头，转过身来，在上面轻轻地吻了一下。“但想想我们现在的情况。”

“And what an arduous journey that’s been.”
“这是一段多么艰辛的旅程。”

Raising her head, Hermione met his eyes with a small smile. “There’s nothing wrong with treading the shallows but if you want the treasure in the depths, you need to make the effort to dive.” 
赫敏抬起头，对上他的眼睛，露出一丝微笑。“踏上浅滩没有错，但如果你想在深处找到宝藏，你需要努力潜水。”

Her father had said that once to her, she recalled, when a teacher in her primary school had pointed out her lack of interest in interacting with her classmates. She hadn’t especially appreciated the advice then and she wasn’t sure Lucius would appreciate it now. 
她记得，她的父亲曾经对她说过这句话，当时她小学的一位老师指出她对与同学互动没有兴趣。她当时并不特别欣赏这个建议，她不确定卢修斯现在会不会感激它。

“Been reading up on your aphorisms lately, have you?” he asked, his voice unimpressed and mild nausea curling his lip. 
“你最近一直在读你的格言，是吗？”他问道，他的声音不为所动，轻微的恶心卷起了他的嘴唇。

Hermione puffed out a laugh and stepped out of his embrace to search for her blouse. “All I’m saying is: you’re making changes. Maybe different kinds of working relationships, even friendships, can be a part of that. Deeper, more rewarding relationships.”
赫敏大笑起来，从他的怀抱中走出来，寻找她的衬衫。“我只想说：你在做出改变。也许不同类型的工作关系，甚至是友谊，都可以成为其中的一部分。更深入、更有价值的关系。

“Are you talking about actual rewards?” he drawled, watching her pull her blouse over her head. “Or those terribly boring, intangible, emotional rewards?”
“你说的是真正的奖励吗？”他抽搐着，看着她把衬衫拉到头上。“还是那些非常无聊、无形的情感奖励？”

“Lucius,” Hermione said, her frown appearing through the neck of her blouse first.
“卢修斯，”赫敏说，她的眉头先从衬衫的脖子上露出来。

“I know,” he said, waving a careless, dismissive hand. “I don’t know why I’m asking; it’s you, of course it’s the latter.” 
“我知道，”他说，漫不经心地挥了挥手。“我不知道我为什么问;是你，当然是后者。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

I've now written smut a few times and I really really enjoy it but publishing it comes with a weird nervousness ha! 
我现在已经写了好几遍色情内容了，我真的很喜欢它，但是发布它时会带来一种奇怪的紧张，哈！

Next chapter: their final interview and a return to Lucius' perspective.
下一章：他们的最后一次采访和回归 Lucius 的视角。

Chapter 28
第二十八章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius have their last official interview
赫敏和卢修斯接受了他们的最后一次正式采访

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you, you absolute gems. Love to all of you as always <3 Let's have some escapism shall we
谢谢你，你们绝对的宝石。一如既往地爱你们所有人 <3 让我们来点逃避现实吧

July 13th
7月13日

“You want to let it steep in the cup for a bit,” Hermione said, sitting a steaming cup in front of Lucius. “A few minutes is enough but I like to leave mine a little longer than most. Makes it stronger.”
“你想让它在杯子里泡一会儿，”赫敏说，把一个冒着热气的杯子放在卢修斯面前。“几分钟就足够了，但我喜欢比大多数人多留一点。让它更强大。

Lucius peered into the cup as he pulled it across the kitchen counter towards himself, his lip curling. “It looks rather unfortunate with the bag just floating in it.”
卢修斯盯着杯子，将杯子拉过厨房柜台，朝自己拉来，嘴唇卷曲着。“袋子就漂浮在里面，看起来相当不幸。”

“Yes,” Hermione agreed slowly, clearly not sure what to make of the fact that he had never been served his tea with the bag still in. “Teabags aren’t the most appetising sight, I suppose.” Hermione slid onto one of the tall stools she’d conjured for them, carefully setting her own tea down.
“是的，”赫敏缓缓地答应了，显然不知道该如何看待他从来没有在袋子里喝过茶的事实。“我想，茶包不是最令人垂涎的景象。”赫敏滑到她为他们变出的一张高脚凳上，小心翼翼地把自己的茶放下。

For the first time, they were conducting an interview in the kitchen. It just so happened that it was likely to be their last interview. There was a bittersweetness to it all—it was a moment they had both, not so long ago, longed for. Yet neither was particularly interested in seeing their meetings end now. Lucius was satisfied that he had, at least, given her a few more reasons beyond his library to keep coming back.
他们第一次在厨房里进行采访。碰巧这很可能是他们的最后一次采访。这一切都是苦乐参半的——那是他们俩都渴望的时刻，就在不久前。然而，两人都对看到他们的会议现在结束特别感兴趣。卢修斯很满意，至少，他给了她一些在他的图书馆之外继续回来的理由。

“I’ll tell you what is appetising, though.” Hermione leaned down and hauled her satchel up onto the counter. “Lemon cake.”
“不过，我会告诉你什么是令人垂涎的。”赫敏俯下身子，把她的书包拖到柜台上。“柠檬蛋糕。”

She carefully lifted a tin from the satchel before lowering the bag to the ground by its strap. Prying the lid off the tin, Hermione used one hand to waft the sweet smell from within towards Lucius. “I brought it for Astoria but I don’t see why we shouldn’t have a slice.”
她小心翼翼地从背包里拿出一个罐子，然后用带子把袋子放到地上。赫敏撬开罐子的盖子，用一只手将里面的甜美气味飘向卢修斯。“我把它带到了 Astoria，但我不明白为什么我们不应该有一块。”

Lucius wrinkled his nose and shook his head as he raised and lowered his teabag by its string; an action which felt dangerously close to manual labour. 
卢修斯皱了皱鼻子，摇了摇头，用绳子升降他的茶包;这种行为感觉危险地接近体力劳动。

“What?” Hermione asked, her voice rising with surprise. “You struck me as the type that would like citrus flavours.”
“什么？”赫敏问道，她的声音因惊讶而提高。“你给我的印象是喜欢柑橘口味的人。”

“I have no idea what it is about me that would give that impression,” Lucius replied with a slow blink. “But I don’t especially care for sweet things. Cake being one example.”
“我不知道我是什么会给人这种印象，”卢修斯缓缓地眨了眨眼回答。“但我并不特别在乎甜食。蛋糕就是一个例子。

“Now that doesn’t surprise me, actually,” Hermione said tartly, lifting a slice of cake out of the tin and onto a plate she'd set down by her elbow. “Too many joyous associations, I’d imagine. I won’t make you try it but I will let you know you’re missing out.”
“实际上，这并不让我感到惊讶，”赫敏酸溜溜地说，从罐子里拿出一片蛋糕，放到她胳膊肘边放下的盘子里。“我想，有太多快乐的联想。我不会让你尝试一下，但我会让你知道你错过了。

“I’ll live,” Lucius said dryly as he pointed to a drawer across the kitchen in order to indicate where Hermione would find the fork he knew she’d just been preparing to ask for. 
“我会活下来的，”卢修斯指着厨房对面的抽屉干巴巴地说，想指出赫敏会在哪里找到他知道她刚刚准备要的叉子。

“You can probably take that out now.” Hermione gestured to the teabag in his cup as she slid back into her seat, newly acquired fork in hand. Lucius did as instructed, depositing the steaming teabag on another empty plate and just about managing to keep his exhalation of disgust quiet. He added a splash of milk to his cup and took a delicate sip. 
“你现在可能可以把它拿出来。”赫敏指了指他杯子里的茶包，然后滑回座位上，手里拿着新买的叉子。卢修斯按照指示做了，把热气腾腾的茶包放在另一个空盘子里，勉强忍住了他厌恶的呼气。他在杯子里加了一点牛奶，轻轻地啜了一口。

“That is a vast improvement on my first attempt” he said, his pleasure and frustration that she’d been right in her assertion that it was possible to make a good cup of tea the Muggle way and that she could show him how clear in his voice. 
“这比我第一次尝试时有了很大的进步，”他说，他的喜悦和沮丧是她断言可以用麻瓜的方式泡一杯好茶的，而且她可以向他展示他的声音是多么清晰。

“I told you it’s simple,” Hermione said, breaking off a piece of cake with the edge of her fork. “You just needed to be patient. And ask for help.”
“我跟你说过这很简单，”赫敏说，用叉子的边缘掰开了一块蛋糕。“你只需要有耐心。并寻求帮助。

“I think,” Lucius said, his tone clipped, “of the two of us, I have the most patience.”
“我想，”卢修斯说，语气略带，“在我们两个人中，我最有耐心。

“You have long-game patience,” Hermione said with a knowing smile. “But in the day-to-day little things? Not a jot as far as I can tell.”
“你有持久的耐心，”赫敏带着会心的微笑说。“但在日常的小事上呢？据我所知，一点也不。

He scoffed irritably and, on seeing her pointedly raised her eyebrows at him as she slowly chewed her cake, he swiftly rearranged his face into a placid mask. “It’s hardly my fault that you try my patience so effectively,” he said. 
他恼怒地嘲笑着，看到她慢慢地咀嚼蛋糕时，尖锐地向他扬起眉毛，他迅速地把脸重新整理成一个平静的面具。“你这么有效地考验我的耐心，这绝不是我的错，”他说。

“It barely requires any effort Lucius,” she responded, her expression smug before her tongue poked out to catch a crumb that had stuck to her bottom lip. 
“这几乎不需要任何努力，卢修斯，”她回答道，她的表情得意洋洋，然后伸出舌头接住了粘在她下唇上的面包屑。

His eyes followed the movement, lingering on the shimmer her tongue had left on her plump lower lip, before descending to the cake in front of her. It really didn’t look like anything special to him but the sound of a small moan of pleasure in the back of her throat made the muscles in his legs contract as he pressed his feet against the stool. 
他的眼睛跟着这个动作，在她的舌头在她丰满的下唇上留下的微光上徘徊，然后下降到她面前的蛋糕上。这对他来说真的没什么特别的，但当他把脚压在凳子上时，她喉咙后部发出一声小小的愉悦呻吟，使他腿上的肌肉收缩起来。

“Give me that,” he said, snatching the fork from her hand and ignoring her protest, muffled as it was by her mouthful of cake. 
“给我这个，”他说，从她手里抢过叉子，无视她的抗议，就像她满嘴的蛋糕一样。

“Would it kill you to say please?” Hermione finally managed to ask thickly, hand over her mouth as she swallowed her bite.
“你说拜托会害死吗？”赫敏终于设法厚重地问道，她用手捂住了嘴，吞下了她的一口。

“Best not to take the risk,” he said with a thin smile. Breaking off a chunk of cake with the edge of the fork, Lucius took a bite and slowly chewed. It was moist and soft. Zesty and light. Sweet without being cloying. Balanced. Enjoyable. He swallowed, a small frown between his brows as he looked up to find Hermione watching him raptly. 
“最好不要冒险，”他淡淡地笑着说。用叉子的边缘掰开一块蛋糕，卢修斯咬了一口，慢慢地咀嚼。它湿润柔软。热情而轻盈。甜美而不腻。平衡。愉快。他咽了口口水，眉头紧皱，抬起头来，发现赫敏正忙着看着他。

“You made this?” he asked. “Without magic?”
“这个是你做的？”“没有魔法？”

“Yes. Do you like it?”
“是的。你喜欢吗？

“It’s less sweet than I anticipated.”
“它没有我预期的那么甜。”

“I’ll take that as a yes.”
“我会把它当作是。”

Thoughtfully taking another bite, Lucius eyed her as though seeing her in a different light while he chewed. If he was honest, the cake had a delicacy of flavour that he would never have thought her capable of achieving. Hermione Granger was many things; delicate was not one of them. 
卢修斯若有所思地又咬了一口，看着她，仿佛在咀嚼时以不同的眼光看待她。如果他老实说，这蛋糕的味道很美味，他永远不会认为她能够达到。赫敏·格兰杰有很多东西;delicate 不是其中之一。

Lucius had never made food, even with magic. He had certainly never baked. He wasn’t sure he’d know where to start. For the first time, he realised he wasn’t sure that he’d ever been served food by someone he liked personally — someone to whom he felt a connection — rather than a house elf or a magical chef whose face he’d never see. Perhaps it was his imagination, but he thought that knowing Hermione had made the cake gave it a distinct flavour that he could not associate with anything he’d ever eaten before and he’d eaten widely and well.  
卢修斯从来没有做过食物，即使是用魔法。他肯定从来没有烤过。他不确定自己是否知道从哪里开始。他第一次意识到，他不确定自己吃的食物是不是他个人喜欢的人——一个他觉得有联系的人——而不是一个他从未见过面孔的家养小精灵或魔法厨师。也许这是他的想象，但他认为知道赫敏做了蛋糕会给它带来一种独特的味道，他无法与他以前吃过的任何东西联系起来，而且他吃得又多又好。

Lucius looked down at the cake and poked at a lump of it with the fork, pleased by the way it yielded easily to the sharp point. “Who taught you to make it?”
卢修斯低头看着蛋糕，用叉子戳了戳一块蛋糕，很高兴它能轻易地屈服到尖锐的尖端。“谁教你做的？”

“My mum taught me this recipe. This and her soup are all I can really do; I’m not an especially good cook but something about baking soothes me. In much the way I think working in the greenhouse soothes you, I suppose.”
“我妈妈教了我这个食谱。这和她的汤就是我真正能做的了;我不是一个特别擅长烹饪的人，但烘焙让我感到安慰。我想，在我认为在温室里工作可以安抚你。

He nodded absently and took another bite of cake. Rolling her eyes, Hermione slid from her stool and moved across the kitchen to get another plate and another fork. Returning to her seat, she reached into the tin to take out a second slice, leaving the original one to him. He didn’t protest but watched her, hawk-like.
他心不在焉地点点头，又吃了一口蛋糕。赫敏翻了个白眼，从凳子上滑下来，穿过厨房，拿了另一个盘子和另一个叉子。回到座位上，她把手伸进罐子里，拿出第二片，把原来的那片留给他。他没有抗议，而是像鹰一样看着她。

“And why don’t you use magic to make it?”
“那你为什么不用魔法来制作它呢？”

“Because my mum didn’t,” was her prompt response. “She was a Muggle. Remember?” Lucius didn’t miss the challenge in Hermione’s eyes as she looked up from her fresh slice of cake. 
“因为我妈妈没有，”她迅速地回答。“她是个麻瓜。记得吗？卢修斯没有错过赫敏眼中的挑战，她从新鲜的蛋糕中抬起头来。

“I believe that has come up, yes,” he said lightly. “In passing. Once or twice.” 
“我相信这已经出现了，是的，”他淡淡地说。“顺便说一句。一两次。

How could he forget? Forget that his intelligent, sharp-tongued, pretty little witch was the result of a union between not one, but two Muggles. 
他怎么会忘记呢？忘了他那个聪明、尖锐、漂亮的小女巫，不是一个，而是两个麻瓜结合的结果。

There were days when he had half a mind to scour her family tree as she had done with his. A small part of him was convinced that if he went back far enough he’d find she had come to him from Morgana herself. But, really, what would be the point? Regardless of the presence of Morgana, the Muggles would still be there. It wouldn’t change anything about who she was now. It was an uncomfortable truth and he was painfully aware that it would never get more comfortable if he continued to deny it.
有几天，他半心半意地搜寻她的家谱，就像她对他的家谱所做的那样。他有一小部分人相信，如果他回溯得足够远，他会发现她是从莫甘娜本人来找他的。但是，说真的，有什么意义呢？不管莫甘娜在哪儿，麻瓜们还是会在那里。这不会改变她现在的样子。这是一个令人不安的事实，他痛苦地意识到，如果他继续否认它，它永远不会变得更舒服。

Jerking her head at the Wheezebox with a sigh, Hermione reached for her wand. “Shall we?”
赫敏叹了口气，对着喘息盒猛地摇了摇头，伸手去拿她的魔杖。“好吗？”

“You were close with your mother?” he asked abruptly, ignoring her attempts to move on.
“你和妈很亲近吗？”他突然问道，无视了她继续说下去的企图。

Lucius could see that she was becoming exasperated. It was to a disproportionate degree given the harmless nature of his questions but considering what he knew of her parents, what had happened to them – what she had done to them – he thought he understood. 
卢修斯看得出来，她越来越生气了。考虑到他的问题无害的性质，这在某种程度上是不成比例的，但考虑到他对她父母的了解，发生在他们身上的事情——她对他们做了什么——他认为他理解。

He got the impression that she didn’t openly discuss them often. Just as he did not often openly discuss his parents. Doing so tended to make him feel a combination of guilt, anger and nostalgia. And those were only the easily identifiable emotions. It was a mix that was rather like dressing his brain in an itchy jumper. But he was curious and he rather thought he could face forcing her into an itchy jumper for a few seconds if it meant satisfying that curiosity. She had had no qualms about doing it to him, after all. 
他觉得她不经常公开讨论这些问题。就像他不经常公开谈论他的父母一样。这样做往往会让他感到内疚、愤怒和怀旧的结合。而这些只是容易识别的情绪。这种混合就像把他的大脑穿上一件发痒的套头衫。但他很好奇，他宁愿认为如果这意味着满足这种好奇心，他可以面对强迫她穿几秒钟发痒的套头衫。毕竟，她对他这样做毫无顾忌。

“Yes,” she said with a shortness that raised a smile to his lips. “We had our moments of course, as most teenage girls do with their mother but she tried. Mostly, she succeeded.” Taking a deep breath, she pointlessly adjusted her fork on her plate before raising her wand again. “Alright, ready?”
“是的，”她短促地说，他的嘴角扬起了一丝微笑。“我们当然有自己的时刻，就像大多数十几岁的女孩和她们的母亲一样，但她尝试了。大多数情况下，她成功了。深吸一口气，她毫无意义地调整了一下盘子上的叉子，然后再次举起了魔杖。“好了，准备好了吗？”

“And your father?”
“那你爸爸呢？”

Lowering her wand, Hermione cast Lucius a wondering look while he lowered his gaze to his cake. “My father?”
赫敏放下魔杖，疑惑地看了卢修斯一眼，而卢修斯则低头看向他的蛋糕。“我爸爸？”

“Was your relationship with him…positive? Healthy?”
“你和他的关系......阳性？健康吗？

“Lucius…” He glanced up to see, to his surprise, that a trembling, incredulous smile was beginning to play around Hermione’s lips. “Are you checking that I don’t have daddy issues?”
“卢修斯......”他抬头看了一眼，惊讶地发现赫敏的嘴唇上开始浮现出颤抖的、难以置信的笑容。“你检查我没有爸爸问题吗？”

“Certainly not ,” he said. His face was an impassive mask but he could not keep the defensiveness out of his voice. Daddy issues indeed . “I’m asking out of genuine interest.”
“当然不是，”他说。他的脸上是一个冷漠的面具，但他无法从他的声音中抑制住防御。爸爸的问题确实是 .“我问是出于真正的兴趣。”

“Alright, well, yes,” Hermione said, bemusement beginning to replace her former annoyance. “My father was a very quiet man but he was incredibly warm. Very fond of books. My mother was the more outgoing of the two – she pushed their business forward, I think. But they shared a sense of humour.” Hermione looked down into her lap. “They – we – laughed a lot.”
“好吧，好吧，是的，”赫敏说，困惑开始取代她之前的烦恼。“我父亲是一个非常安静的人，但他非常热情。非常喜欢书。我妈妈是两个人中比较外向的——我认为是她推动了他们的业务向前发展。但他们都有幽默感。赫敏低头看着她的腿。“他们——我们——笑得很开心。”

“You were happy.” He said it as a statement, rather than asking it as a question – lots of laughter didn’t tend to accompany unhappiness, after all. Laughter had not been in large supply in his childhood. That it had been in hers went some way to explaining, he thought, why she laughed so easily. So freely. She threw her head back like a woman who had not been told from her birth that she was there to be seen and not heard.
“你很开心。”他把这句话说成是陈述，而不是作为一个问题来问——毕竟，很多笑声往往不会伴随着不快乐。在他的童年时代，笑声并不多。他想，这在某种程度上解释了为什么她这么容易笑。如此自由。她把头向后仰，就像一个从出生起就没有被告知她是来被看见而不是被听见的女人。

“Yes.” Hermione nodded. “I daresay I was. Of course, I’m not sure I ever really realised just how happy I was in the moment but, looking back, I think I can say I was overall. There were tensions, as is the case with any family, I think. I hated their insistence on braces and I resented the medical professional they brought in to discuss my magical accidents for quite a long time, even if I never really explained that to them.” 
“是的。”赫敏点点头。“我敢说我是。当然，我不确定我是否真的意识到我当时有多么快乐，但回想起来，我想我可以说我总体上是如此。我认为，就像任何家庭一样，存在紧张局势。我讨厌他们坚持戴牙套，我讨厌他们请来的医疗专业人员在很长一段时间内讨论我的神奇事故，即使我从未真正向他们解释过。

Lucius looked up sharply at the words ‘medical professional’ and Hermione reached a soothing hand across the counter. “Just someone to check if I was…normal. Before Hogwarts, of course.” Outrage passed over his face but Hermione smiled conspiratorially. “She didn’t come back after I got upset and accidentally set her fringe on fire.”
卢修斯猛地抬起头来，看着“医疗专业人员”这两个字，赫敏伸出一只安抚的手越过柜台。“只是有人检查我是不是......正常。当然是在霍格沃茨之前。愤怒的脸上掠过，但赫敏阴谋地笑了笑。“在我不高兴并不小心点燃了她的刘海后，她没有回来。”

Lucius snorted, the tension immediately dropping from his shoulders. Of course she had. As though he ever had to be concerned over the ability of Hermione Granger to take care of herself. “You’re very curious today,” Hermione said, tilting her head. “Why?”
卢修斯哼了一声，紧张感立刻从他的肩膀上消失了。她当然有。仿佛他曾经不得不担心赫敏·格兰杰照顾自己的能力。“你今天很好奇，”赫敏歪着头说。“为什么？”

“You’ve spent months studying my – what did you call it that day – connective tissue?” Hermione nodded. “Why shouldn’t I study yours?”
“你花了几个月的时间研究我的——那天你怎么称呼它——结缔组织？”赫敏点点头。“我为什么不研究你的？”

Lucius knew that she couldn’t find fault with that yet he still noticed her shift like she’d suddenly realised she was seated on a pebble. “Feeling exposed?” he asked. “Uncomfortably self-aware?"
卢修斯知道她挑不出毛病，但他仍然注意到她的转变，就像她突然意识到自己坐在鹅卵石上一样。“感觉被暴露了？”“令人不舒服的自我意识？”

“A bit, actually.”
“实际上，有点。”

Lucius hummed nonchalantly and took another bite of cake but the look he cast her from under his eyebrows as he chewed wasn't without significance. Hermione Granger gave consideration to the feelings of others more than any person he had ever met but he got the sense that if her own feelings or convictions were strong enough, she would conveniently blinker herself. He didn’t dislike it but he didn’t think it would hurt for her to be slightly more aware of it. 
卢修斯漫不经心地哼了一声，又咬了一口蛋糕，但他咀嚼时从眉毛下投向她的眼神并非没有意义。赫敏·格兰杰比他见过的任何人都更关心他人的感受，但他有一种感觉，如果她自己的感情或信念足够强烈，她会轻易地眨眼。他并不讨厌它，但他不认为她稍微多意识到这一点会有什么坏处。

“Alright,” he eventually said, pushing his now empty plate aside and gesturing to the Wheezebox. “You have satisfied my curiosity for the time being. Allow me to satisfy yours. If that is at all possible.”
“好吧，”他最终说，把现在空的盘子推到一边，指着 Wheezebox。“你暂时满足了我的好奇心。请允许我满足你的要求。如果可能的话。

Wasting no time, Hermione eagerly began the recording and picked up her tea as she turned back to him. “We discussed the final battle in our last meeting,” she said, her hands hugging the steaming cup and lifting it to her lips to blow on it. “I wondered if you’d mind discussing the aftermath.”
赫敏没有浪费时间，急切地开始录音，一边拿起茶，一边转身看向他。“我们在上次会议上讨论了最后的战斗，”她说，她的手抱住了冒着热气的杯子，把它举到嘴唇上吹气。“我想知道你是否介意讨论后果。”

“Well, that does seem like a natural progression, doesn’t it?” Lucius couldn’t help the tiredness that crept into his voice. There were very few bright spots in the time they were about to discuss – he was sure she would forgive him a lack of enthusiasm. 
“嗯，这似乎确实是一个自然的过程，不是吗？”卢修斯忍不住声音中渗出的疲惫。他们即将讨论的时间里几乎没有亮点——他确信她会原谅他缺乏热情。

“In the immediate aftermath of the war, a lot of the people I’ve interviewed said they found it difficult to come to terms with everyone they’d lost,” Hermione said. “I found it interesting that they all seemed to approach it in different ways, though. What was your experience of that, if you don’t mind sharing?”
“在战争刚结束的时候，我采访过的很多人都说，他们发现很难接受他们失去的每个人，”赫敏说。“不过，我发现有趣的是，他们似乎都以不同的方式处理它。如果你不介意分享的话，你对此有什么体验？

“I didn’t actually lose anyone in the war, Hermione,” he reminded her. “By some miracle, my family and I emerged unscathed.” From the battle, at the very least. 
“我实际上并没有在战争中失去任何人，赫敏，”他提醒她。“奇迹般地，我和我的家人毫发无损。” 至少从战斗中。

“The casualties weren’t low, Lucius,” Hermione said, her brow furrowed like she was somehow concerned he had failed to process that people he knew had, in fact, died. “For the Order alone –”
“伤亡不小，卢修斯，”赫敏说，她的眉头皱了起来，就像她不知何故担心他没有处理好他认识的人实际上已经死了。“光是教团——”

“Ah.” Lucius’ smile was grim as he lowered his chin in a half nod. “I assure you, it didn't escape my notice that plenty of Death Eaters perished in the fight. But when I say I didn’t lose anyone, I mean I did not lose anyone I particularly lamented being rid of.”
“啊。”卢修斯的笑容很严肃，他低下了下巴，半点头。“我向你保证，我注意到有很多食死徒在战斗中丧生。但当我说我没有失去任何人时，我的意思是我没有失去任何人，我特别为被摆脱而感到遗憾。

Her exhalation of understanding was soft and he could tell she wasn’t sure how to take what he’d said. He supposed that, to someone with a heart that bled as much as hers, the assertion that he hadn’t really been especially affected by the deaths of his fellow Death Eaters might have sounded like he was putting a brave face on it. Denying his true pain. He wasn’t.
她理解的呼气很轻柔，他看得出来她不确定如何接受他所说的话。他想，对于一个和她一样流血的人来说，他并没有真正受到食死徒同伴的死亡的特别影响，这听起来像是他在摆出一副勇敢的面孔。否认他真正的痛苦。他不是。

“It’s true,” he said. “You didn’t join the Death Eaters because the bud of friendship was known to flourish in the ranks, Hermione. They were colleagues at best – subordinates, actually, in most cases – and if I’d really wanted those then I would have taken a full-time role at the Ministry. They were a necessary inconvenience.”
“这是真的，”他说。“你没有加入食死徒，因为众所周知，友谊的萌芽在队伍中盛开，赫敏。他们充其量只是同事——实际上，在大多数情况下是下属——如果我真的想要这些人，那么我会在魔法部担任全职工作。他们是必要的不便。

Her eyes widened fractionally and Lucius pursed his lips. The idea that she might perceive him as terribly callous bothered him somewhat but, really, could she pretend that she was sorry those people were gone? She had even fewer reasons to mourn them than him.
她微微睁大了眼睛，卢修斯抿起了他的嘴唇。她可能会认为他非常冷酷无情，这让他有些困扰，但说真的，她能假装对那些人的离开感到遗憾吗？她哀悼他们的理由甚至比他还少。

“Even Professor Snape?” she asked. “Draco always seemed to suggest that he was close with your family. Certainly Snape didn’t deny the association.”
“就连斯内普教授吗？”“德拉科似乎总是暗示他和你的家人很亲近。当然，斯内普并没有否认这种关联。

Ah . Lucius slowly lowered his teacup, his face screwed up at one side in a cringe. Severus. The posthumously redeemed hero, finally been placed on the pedestal he had never been capable of stepping onto himself. Lucius hadn’t missed the revelation that Potter had named his second child after Severus during his dinner with Hermione. It was a gesture he did not think his sour Slytherin acquaintance would have particularly appreciated but, then, he was not a man who had appreciated much.
啊。卢修斯慢慢地放下了他的茶杯，他的脸在一边皱起，显得畏缩不前。西弗勒斯。这位死后被赎罪的英雄，终于被放在了他从未能够踏上自己的基座上。卢修斯没有错过波特在与赫敏共进晚餐时以西弗勒斯的名字命名他的第二个孩子的消息。他不认为他那个酸溜溜的斯莱特林熟人不会特别欣赏这个手势，但是，他不是一个很欣赏的人。

“Severus always was something of an exception for me.”
“西弗勒斯对我来说总是个例外。”

“You considered him more than a colleague or a subordinate, then?”
“那么，你把他看得比同事或下属更重要？”

“He was different to a colleague. To say he was more is…” Lucius shook his head. It wasn’t correct. It wasn’t incorrect either. “Our relationship had rather more unusual foundations than any of the others I formed at school or within the ranks of the Death Eaters.”
“他和同事不一样。说他更是......”卢修斯摇摇头。这是不正确的。这也不是错的。“我们的关系比我在学校或食死徒队伍中建立的任何其他关系都要有更不寻常的基础。”

“In what way?”
“以什么方式？”

Lucius turned his teacup in a slow circle with his fingertips, allowing the steam to dampen and heat his palm as he thought back to the sallow first year that had sat next to him at the sorting ceremony. 
卢修斯用指尖慢慢地将茶杯转圈，让蒸汽浸湿并加热他的手掌，同时他回想起在分院仪式上坐在他旁边的那个蜡黄的一年级学生。

“Severus was a most unhappy boy when I met him,” he finally said, looking up from his cup. “Contained a precocious degree of self-loathing. That’s the kind of thing that people can react oddly to. Sometimes they see it as an instruction manual for how to treat you. Sometimes it’s a mirror in which they see all of their own self-loathing reflected back at them. Neither is likely to make you a figure of endearment. In the rare event that you do manage to endear someone, you’ll do all in your power to push them away
“我遇见西弗勒斯的时候，他是个最不开心的男孩，”他终于从杯子里抬起头来。“包含了早熟程度的自我厌恶。人们可能会对这种事情做出奇怪的反应。有时他们将其视为如何治疗您的指导手册。有时它是一面镜子，他们看到自己所有的自我厌恶都反射在他们身上。两者都不可能让你成为可爱的形象。在极少数情况下，您确实设法喜欢某人，您将尽一切努力将他们推开

Hermione’s gaze rather felt like a dissection. “How did you react?”
赫敏的目光更像是解剖。“你有什么反应？”

“…I…well, I suppose I fell into the first category initially. He tailed us like a lost, angry puppy for a while and we used him to carry our books. I got him to sharpen my quills. Laughed at him quite a bit; his robes were terribly shabby and his manners , well –” Lucius coughed up a mirthless chuckle. “You have no idea, Hermione, truly.”
“…我。。。嗯，我想我最初属于第一类。他像一只迷路、生气的小狗一样尾随我们一阵子，我们用他来搬运我们的书。我让他磨我的羽毛笔。嘲笑了他很多次;他的长袍破旧得可怕，他的举止，嗯——“卢修斯无情地笑了起来。“你不知道，赫敏，真的。”

Though he appeared derisive of the memory of young Snape, there was a fond half-smile playing about Lucius’ lips which faded as he continued. “He was still in his first year when I found him out after curfew during my Prefect rounds. It was on the day we returned after the Christmas holidays. He was huddled in a passageway behind a tapestry, trying to heal himself.” At Hermione’s inquisitive look, he added a short, explanatory, “Bruises.”
虽然他似乎在嘲笑年轻的斯内普的记忆，但卢修斯的嘴唇上还是浮现出一个深情的半笑容，随着他的继续说下去，这个笑容逐渐消失了。“当我在级长查房宵禁后发现他时，他还是一年级学生。那是我们圣诞节假期后回来的那天。他蜷缩在挂毯后面的通道里，试图治愈自己。赫敏好奇的眼神，他又补充了一个简短的解释性，“瘀伤。

Hermione’s “oh” was quiet but he heard it and nodded. “He didn’t have the skill at the time, so I helped. And when I asked, he told me the truth – as many eleven year olds who think they might have found a person to trust would. He told me about his parents. About his father. His concerns for his mother when he wasn’t there.” 
赫敏的“哦”声很安静，但他听到了，点了点头。“他当时没有这项技能，所以我帮忙。当我问时，他告诉我真相——就像许多认为自己可能找到了一个可以信任的人的 11 岁孩子一样。他跟我说了他的父母。关于他的父亲。当他不在的时候，他对母亲的关心。

Lucius cleared his throat and straightened his back, looking down at the counter as he remembered the pathetic, crouching boy he had uncovered that night. “I can’t pretend that didn’t touch a nerve so I…did what I thought was best. I told no other Slytherin and I helped him to locate his pride; it was in his magical lineage. His mother’s family name and himself. Certainly not in his loutish Muggle father.”
卢修斯清了清嗓子，挺直了背，低头看着柜台，想起了那天晚上他发现的那个可怜的、蹲着的男孩。“我不能假装这没有触动我的神经，所以我......做了我认为最好的事情。我没有告诉其他斯莱特林，我帮助他找到了他的骄傲;那是他的魔法血统。他母亲的姓氏和他自己。肯定不是他那懒散的麻瓜爸爸。

Hermione’s half-eaten cake had been abandoned and her attention was fixed solely on him. “You were willing to look past his being a half-blood?”
赫敏吃了一半的蛋糕被扔掉了，她的注意力只集中在他身上。“你愿意忽略他是个混血儿吗？”

“He was a Slytherin,” Lucius said firmly. “And he proved to have a hatred of Muggles surpassing that of many Pure-bloods. Because it was rooted in experience, I assume. To most of us, Muggles were a concept; we’d never actually interacted with one. To him, they were his father. He was dedicated.”
“他是个斯莱特林，”卢修斯坚定地说。“事实证明，他对麻瓜的仇恨超过了许多纯血统的人。因为我认为，这植根于经验。对我们大多数人来说，麻瓜是一个概念;我们从来没有真正和他们互动过。对他来说，他们就是他的父亲。他很敬业。

Lucius took a slow drink of his tea, picking over hazy memories of nights spent in the Slytherin common room making outrageous, ugly declarations with the other boys in his house, trying to outdo one another without ever really considering how much they truly meant what they said or whether they would ever be tasked with proving it. 
卢修斯慢慢地喝了一口茶，朦胧的回忆在斯莱特林公共休息室度过的夜晚，与他学院的其他男孩一起发表令人发指、丑陋的声明，试图超越彼此，却从未真正考虑过他们所说的真正含义，或者他们是否会承担证明的任务。

“Perhaps it was performative, perhaps compensatory, but he denigrated the Muggles with the best of us and he came alive when he did it. It made him an excellent Death Eater recruit and, as you already know, I was looking for those.”
“也许这是表演性的，也许是补偿性的，但他用我们最好的人来诋毁麻瓜，当他这样做时，他活了过来。这使他成为一名出色的食死徒新兵，正如你已经知道的，我一直在寻找这些人。

“He was so young.”
“他太年轻了。”

“I wasn’t in the habit of pushing eleven year olds in the direction of the Dark Lord, Hermione,” Lucius said, with a roll of his eyes. “I mean in a general sense. I took an interest in introducing him to the right people, helped him to make friends and avoid the wrong sort. I heard about him through the grapevine over the years and as his Hogwarts years came to an end, I reached out with an opportunity.”
“我可没把十一岁的孩子推向黑魔王的方向的习惯，赫敏，”卢修斯翻了个白眼说。“我是说一般意义上的。我有兴趣把他介绍给合适的人，帮助他交朋友，避免错误的朋友。这些年来，我通过小道消息听说了他，当他在霍格沃茨的岁月即将结束时，我抓住了一个机会伸出援手。

“Wrong sort?” Hermione asked, a brow arched.
“排序错误？”赫敏问道，眉头一弯。

“You know perfectly well what I mean when I say that,” Lucius said, his face grim. "I imagine you have your own definition of the term."
“你完全明白我说这话的意思，”卢修斯说，脸色阴沉。“我想你对这个词有自己的定义。”

“And he responded when you reached out?”
“当你伸出援手时，他回应了？”

“Of course. He didn’t let me down, either. When the time came, the Dark Lord took to him quite quickly and that reflected well on me.”
“当然。他也没有让我失望。当时机成熟时，黑魔王很快就接受了他，这在我身上反映得很好。

“Was that your plan when you first helped him? To snare him in?”
“这就是你第一次帮助他的计划吗？把他困住吗？

He could tell that she was hoping the answer was no. He was glad he could give her that, at least. “I can quite firmly say that when I found that eleven year old boy snivelling and struggling with basic healing spells behind a tapestry, his potential as a successful Death Eater wasn’t on my mind, Hermione. I didn’t think him especially useful for anything . I was 15. Still learning.”
他看得出来，她希望答案是否定的。他很高兴他至少能给她这个。“我可以很肯定地说，当我发现那个十一岁的男孩在挂毯后面嗤之以鼻，挣扎着使用基本的治疗咒语时，我并不在意他作为一个成功的食死徒的潜力，赫敏。我不认为他对任何事情特别有用。我当时 15 岁。还在学习。

“ Did you learn anything from that particular experience?”
“你从那次特别的经历中学到了什么吗？”

“I did ,” Lucius said smartly, lifting his cup to his lips, his eyebrows rising over the rim of it before he lowered it again. “Have you ever shown kindness to someone starved of it? It rather opened my eyes to the merits of the carrot having grown up with a man who was enamoured of the stick.” 
“我做到了，”卢修斯聪明地说，把杯子举到嘴边，他的眉毛在杯子的边缘扬起，然后又放下了杯子。“你有没有对一个饥饿的人表现出善意？它反而让我看到了胡萝卜的优点，因为我和一个迷恋大棒的人一起长大。

Hermione’s lips were pursed and he smiled, aware that wasn’t quite what she wanted to hear. “Besides, Severus repaid my kindness – he helped Draco and, when all the other Death Eaters delighted in my fall from grace, I do believe it was his words in the Dark Lord’s ear that kept me off the sharp rocks at the bottom.”
赫敏抿着嘴唇，他笑了笑，知道这并不是她想听的。“此外，西弗勒斯报答了我的好意——他帮助了德拉科，当所有其他食死徒都为我的失宠而欢喜时，我确实相信是他在黑魔王耳边说的话让我远离了底部的尖锐岩石。”

“How did you feel when you found out the truth about his allegiance when the dust had settled?”
“尘埃落定后，当你发现他效忠的真相时，你有什么感觉？”

Lucius sighed and shrugged. “His reasons were his and his alone. Much like Narcissa’s when she helped Potter. Severus was a notoriously difficult man to know.”
卢修斯叹了口气，耸了耸肩。“他的理由是他自己，也只有他自己。就像纳西莎帮助波特时一样。西弗勒斯是出了名的难相识的人。

“Even for you? Don’t you love ‘reading’ people, Lucius?” 
“即使是为了你？你不喜欢'读书'吗，卢修斯？

He shook his head. “You didn’t read Severus; you interpreted him. The man was not so much a closed book as a runic tablet cracked into pieces. He became much harder after the Dark Lord’s fall – more closed than he ever had been – but I long assumed that was grief for the loss of his master.” 
他摇摇头。“你没读过西弗勒斯的书;你解读了他。这个男人与其说是一本合上的书，不如说是一块碎裂成碎片的符文石板。在黑魔王陨落后，他变得更加坚强——比以往任何时候都更加封闭——但我一直认为那是对失去他主人的悲伤。

Lucius crossed his arms and leaned them on the counter, a small frown between his brows. “The Dark Lord had a curious…understanding of Severus. A patience for him. Part of the recruitment in those days involved a meeting with the Dark Lord. He liked to use legilimency to make it a quick process. When he delved into Severus’ memories, saw his origins, got a grasp of his intentions, he seemed to accept him more readily than most. Saw the strength of his hatred for his Muggle father, perhaps. The Dark Lord always set great store by a wizard’s hatred – thought it an excellent motivator. I was thanked for bringing him the man that he was sure would prove to be his most loyal servant.”
卢修斯交叉双臂，靠在柜台上，眉间微微皱起眉头。“黑魔王有一个奇怪的......对西弗勒斯的理解。对他有耐心。那些日子里，招募的一部分涉及与黑魔王的会面。他喜欢使用 legimency 来使其成为一个快速的过程。当他深入研究西弗勒斯的记忆，看到他的来历，掌握他的意图时，他似乎比大多数人更容易接受他。也许，他看到了他对麻瓜父亲的仇恨之大。黑魔王总是非常重视巫师的仇恨——认为这是一个极好的激励因素。我很感激我给他带来了一个他确信会成为他最忠诚的仆人的人。

Lucius watched Hermione’s face cloud over with dark understanding. “Of course he did,” she said. “Harry always said Voldemort never considered the love people had or how valuable it was. He only saw hate. It was his weakness.”
卢修斯看着赫敏的脸上蒙上一层阴影。“他当然知道，”她说。“哈利总是说，伏地魔从来没有考虑过人们的爱，也从来没有考虑过它有多宝贵。他只看到了仇恨。这是他的弱点。

“I would not have ever said Severus was the loving kind, Hermione. He had many excellent qualities but –”
“我从来没有说过西弗勒斯是那种有爱心的人，赫敏。他有很多优秀的品质，但是——”

“He loved Harry’s mother,” Hermione said shortly, stopping Lucius’ next words in his throat like she had reached out and throttled him. “He loved her and when he guided Voldemort to the Potters with the prophecy, he turned to save her. When he failed, he swore to protect Harry.”
“他爱哈利的妈妈，”赫敏很快说，把卢修斯接下来的话堵在了喉咙里，就像她伸手掐住了他一样。“他爱她，当他用预言引导伏地魔去找波特家时，他转身去救她。当他失败时，他发誓要保护哈利。

A strangely queasy feeling swept over Lucius. What she said made perfect sense and yet it made absolutely no sense at all. These were details to which he’d never been made privy but, then, the Dark Lord – indeed Severus too – had very much been ‘need to know’ people. Clearly he had not needed to know. Just as he had not needed to know exactly what the diary was. Just as he had not needed to know anything about the Prophecy until he was tasked with fetching it.
一种奇怪的恶心感席卷了卢修斯。她说的话完全有道理，但又完全没有意义。这些是他从未被告知的细节，但是，那时，黑魔王——实际上是西弗勒斯——非常需要了解的人。显然他不需要知道。就像他不需要确切地知道那本日记是什么一样。就像他不需要对预言一无所知一样，直到他被指派去取它。

He vaguely remembered Lily Potter from his youth, though the living person had mostly been replaced by the dead legend and what she represented. She was one of the ‘wrong sorts’ he’d told Severus to stop wasting his time on. A Mudblood was not worth Severus’ time, no matter how pretty she was. She would always be below him. He had said something to that effect, hadn’t he?
他依稀记得年轻时的莉莉·波特，尽管这个活着的人大多已经被已故的传说和她所代表的东西所取代。她是他告诉西弗勒斯不要再浪费时间的“错误类型”之一。泥巴种不值得西弗勒斯花时间，无论她有多漂亮。她永远在他下面。他曾经说过这样的话，不是吗？

Meeting Hermione’s eyes – her warm, brown, kind eyes that she had almost certainly inherited from one of the two Muggles that had created her – Lucius stiffly shook his head. 
对上赫敏的眼睛——她那双温暖、棕色、善良的眼睛，几乎可以肯定是她从创造她的两个麻瓜之一那里继承来的——卢修斯僵硬地摇了摇头。

“I didn’t know that.” He cleared his throat. “As I said, Severus put up walls after a certain point and I had no interest in what was behind them. No need to. After the first war, we were two of a small number who had avoided Azkaban and he would sometimes visit during the summers for dinners. One does not need to know the depths of a man’s soul in order to enjoy a meal with him. 
“我不知道。”他清了清嗓子。“正如我所说，西弗勒斯在某个时间点后竖起了墙，我对墙后面的东西不感兴趣。不需要。第一次战争后，我们是少数几个避开阿兹卡班的人中的两个，他有时会在夏天来这里吃晚饭。一个人不需要知道一个人灵魂的深处，就可以和他一起吃饭。

“I liked finding out what ridiculously banal statements Dumbledore had come away with and Narcissa had a fixation on finding him a good Pure-blood wife.” Lucius paused, a sudden bad taste in his mouth as he recalled his ex-wife’s attempts to impress upon Severus the value of a loving partner and the pitfalls of long-term loneliness. “There was never any need to put on airs around Severus and we appreciated that as, I believe, did he but he…we…” 
“我喜欢找出邓布利多说出了什么荒谬而平庸的话，而纳西莎一心想给他找个纯血统的好妻子。”卢修斯停顿了一下，当他想起他的前妻试图让西弗勒斯记住一个爱的伴侣的价值和长期孤独的陷阱时，他的嘴里突然有一股难闻的味道。“从来没有必要在西弗勒斯周围装腔作势，我们很感激这一点，因为我相信，他确实这样做了，但他......我们......”

Lucius trailed off as he considered all the things he probably didn’t know about Severus and never would. But he had no reason to know such intimate things; he and Severus hadn’t been friends. Would not have called one another friends. They simply had not been enemies. In the nest of vipers that was the Dark Lord’s service, Lucius had always considered confirmed not-enemies far more valuable than friends.
卢修斯慢慢地走开了，因为他思考着所有他可能不知道的关于西弗勒斯的事情，而且永远不会知道。但他没有理由知道这种私密的事情;他和西弗勒斯不是朋友。不会称彼此为朋友。他们根本不是敌人。在黑魔王服务的毒蛇巢穴中，卢修斯一直认为确认不是敌人比朋友更有价值。

“Do you miss him?” came Hermione’s quiet voice
“你想他吗？” 赫敏平静的声音传来

“No,” Lucius said without hesitation, following it up with a single, genuinely amused laugh as he realised the truth of that. “He was dreadful company at times, Hermione. Truly. For all his intelligence and interesting opinions, he was a terrible grouch and Merlin could he whine. I don’t miss him at all even if I did occasionally enjoy him.”
“不，”卢修斯毫不犹豫地说，当他意识到这是真的时，他接着发出了一声由衷的笑声。“他有时是个可怕的伙伴，赫敏。真正。尽管他很聪明，观点很有趣，但他是个可怕的抱怨，梅林可以抱怨。我一点也不想念他，即使我偶尔喜欢他。

Hermione’s face was so endearingly puzzled that Lucius could not help but smile warmly at her. Gryffindors . “We had an understanding,” he said, “let’s put it that way. We would always have stabbed one another in the front.”
赫敏的脸上露出如此可爱的困惑，以至于卢修斯忍不住对她温暖地笑了笑。 格兰芬多 .“我们有一个共识，”他说，“让我们这么说吧。我们总是在前面互相捅刀子。

A breathless, somewhat disapproving little laugh escaped Hermione and he gave her a wolfish grin. He found he rather liked having that effect on her – shocking her, dragging a reproachful ‘Lucius’ from her. It complemented the playful ‘Lucius’ when she was teasing him. And the drawn out, adoring ‘Lucius’ when he was between her legs. That was naturally his favourite. It was hard to believe he had ever thought her hatred, her cold ‘Mr Malfoys’, would be preferable to that . 
赫敏发出一声喘不过气来，有点不赞同的笑声，他对她露出一个狼一样的笑容。他发现他更喜欢对她产生这种影响——让她感到震惊，从她身上拖出一个责备的“卢修斯”。它与她逗弄他时顽皮的“卢修斯”相得益彰。还有那个拉长的、崇拜的“卢修斯”，当他在她的两腿之间时。这自然是他的最爱。很难相信他曾经认为过她的仇恨，她冷酷的“马尔福先生”，会比那个更可取。

Dropping his gaze, clearly unaware of the lascivious direction his thoughts had taken, Hermione reached over for a sheet of parchment from a pile that she’d left by the Wheezebox and swiftly perused it. “It was a week after the final battle that you were arrested according to the Ministry records. What did you do in that week?”
赫敏垂下目光，显然没有意识到他的思绪正朝着的方向发展，他伸手从她留在喘息盒旁的一堆羊皮纸中拿出一张羊皮纸，迅速地仔细阅读了起来。“根据魔法部的记录，你在最后一战一周后被捕了。那一周你做了什么？

“I prepared,” he said simply. “Got my affairs in order. I arranged for Draco and Narcissa’s lives to continue smoothly without me. My priority was ensuring that they would not want for anything.”
“我准备好了，”他简单地说。“把我的事情安排好了。我安排了德拉科和纳西莎的生活在没有我的情况下顺利地继续。我的首要任务是确保他们什么都不要。

“It sounds like you didn’t have much hope of avoiding a sentence.”
“听起来你逃脱判决的希望不大。”

“The aftermath of the second war was not the aftermath of the first, Hermione. There was no Imperius defence to fall back on. I was very aware that a Malfoy was going to have to take a fall. It was unavoidable and I had no intention of allowing it to be anyone but me.”
“第二次战争的后果不是第一次战争的后果，赫敏。没有 Imperius 的防御可以依靠。我非常清楚，一个马尔福将不得不跌倒。这是不可避免的，我无意让它成为除了我以外的任何人。

“The Aurors noted your compliance,” she said, glancing back over to the parchment with a small frown. “They appeared disappointed by it.”
“傲罗们注意到了你的服从，”她说，皱着眉头回头看了一眼羊皮纸。“他们似乎对此感到失望。”

“Well, there would have been no point in putting up a fuss,” he grumbled, his shoulders rising up towards his ears. “The Aurors were already so damnably delighted by the fact that they had the power to take me from my own home, I had no intention of giving them reason to drag me. I was trying to avoid an excess of humiliation.”
“嗯，大惊小怪就没必要了，”他抱怨道，肩膀抬高到耳朵上。“傲罗们已经对他们有能力把我从自己家里带走的事实感到非常高兴，我无意让他们有理由拖着我走。我试图避免过度的羞辱。

“You were all taken to Azkaban to be held for trial.”
“你们都被带到阿兹卡班受审。”

“Yes,” Lucius said, his voice increasingly hard. “The absence of the dementors was a small comfort but the knowledge that my wife and son were to be held inside that cursed hole for even a minute –” He cut himself off and flexed his hands against the kitchen counter. “I took solace in my intention to ensure that they would not be there for long. I instructed our representation to secure their freedom and to leave me to my fate.”
“是的，”卢修斯说，他的声音越来越严厉。“摄魂怪的缺席是一个小小的安慰，但知道我的妻子和儿子要被关在那个被诅咒的洞里哪怕一分钟——”他打断了自己的话，把手伸向厨房的柜台。“我感到安慰的是，我打算确保他们不会在那里呆太久。我指示我们的代表确保他们的自由，让我听天由命。

“You were sure the Wizengamot would let Narcissa and Draco go free?”
“你确定威森加摩会放过纳西莎和德拉科？”

“I wasn’t sure , no, but Narcissa had never taken the mark and Draco, though he had, had never really been active. Myself on the other hand…” Lucius trailed off briefly, quietly emphasising how he was very much the polar opposite of both. “I was willing to offer up anything to get them out. The Ministry could have made quite the example of me if they’d so desired. Or extracted enough galleons to pay for an entirely new headquarters. Your Mr Potter’s testimony in their defence was a pleasant surprise, I must say – it made things simpler. Cheaper, too.”
“我不确定，不，但纳西莎从来没有拿过这个标记，而德拉科虽然有，但从来没有真正活跃过。另一方面，我自己......”卢修斯短暂地停下了脚步，悄悄地强调他与两者截然相反。“我愿意付出任何代价来让他们离开。如果他们愿意的话，魔法部可以以我为榜样。或者提取足够的大帆船来支付一个全新的总部。我必须说，波特先生在辩护中的证词是一个惊喜——它让事情变得简单了。也更便宜。

“Harry was always going to do the right thing,” Hermione replied, her eyes on the way his hands were pressed hard against the counter, his nails almost white with the pressure. Noticing her gaze, Lucius lifted them and folded them into loose fists.
“哈利总是会做正确的事，”赫敏回答，她的眼睛盯着他的手被用力地压在柜台上的样子，他的指甲在压力下几乎发白。注意到她的目光，卢修斯抬起它们，将它们折叠成松散的拳头。

“If I recall, the press didn’t entirely agree with the rightness of it,” Lucius said lightly. “Nor did some of the Wizengamot.”
“如果我记得的话，媒体并不完全同意它的正确性，”卢修斯淡淡地说。“威森加摩的一些人也没有。”

“Yes, well, at one point the press and some of the Wizengamot agreed with the rightness of the Muggleborn Registration Commission,” Hermione said, her lip curling. “At one point, the press and some of the Wizengamot thought Fudge was right and Harry was a nasty little attention-seeking liar. Harry always did what he felt was right, not what everyone told him was right. Always has done. It’s one of the things I admire about him.”
“是的，好吧，有一次，媒体和一些威森加摩都同意麻瓜出身登记委员会的正确性，”赫敏说，她的嘴唇卷曲着。“有一次，媒体和一些威森加摩人认为福吉是对的，而哈利是一个令人讨厌的小骗子，吸引眼球。哈利总是做他觉得对的事情，而不是每个人都说他对的事情。总是如此。这是我钦佩他的地方之一。

“Funny,” Lucius drawled, recalling with some irritation the way the boy’s face had tended to harden before he went on to do something determinedly, inconveniently, stupid and obstinate. “It's one of the things that always annoyed me about him. I didn’t admire it until I stood to benefit from it. Now he has my gratitude.”
“好笑，”卢修斯抽搐着，有些恼怒地回忆起这个男孩的脸在他继续坚定、不便、愚蠢和固执地做事之前，脸色趋于僵硬。“这是他一直让我恼火的地方之一。我并不钦佩它，直到我站起来从中受益。现在他得到了我的感激之情。

“I’m sure he’d love to hear that.”
“我敢肯定他很想听。”

“He never will,” Lucius said with a stern look at Hermione who chuckled. “Am I understood?”
“他永远不会，”卢修斯说，严厉地看着赫敏，赫敏咯咯地笑了起来。“我明白了吗？”

“Yes, Lucius,” she said with a roll of her eyes. “You went to trial last, didn’t you?” He nodded and Hermione looked back to her parchment. “Your ‘composure’ was noted in the trial notes. The press reported it as a complete lack of repentance. What was it?”
“是的，卢修斯，”她翻了个白眼说。“你上次出庭受审，不是吗？”他点点头，赫敏回头看向她的羊皮纸。“你的'镇定'在审判记录中被记录下来。媒体报道说，这是完全没有悔改。那是什么？

“Acceptance. Maybe indifference. I barely remember that time. I was physically present and nothing more. Narcissa and Draco were safe and after that I had very little to care about.” His gaze flitted to her parchment. “You’re referencing that parchment a great deal – you weren’t part of the swarm in the public viewing gallery? Didn’t want to see me get my comeuppance with the rest?”
“接受。也许是冷漠。我几乎不记得那次了。我亲临现场，仅此而已。纳西莎和德拉科很安全，在那之后我就没有什么可关心的了。他的目光扫向她的羊皮纸。“你经常引用那张羊皮纸——你不是公众观景台里蜂拥而至的一员吗？不想看到我和其他人一起得到报应吗？

“No. I…well, I was assured you weren’t going to get off and I –” She looked into his face, her brows bowed in a cringe. “I didn’t particularly care what happened to you. I didn’t even want to look at you.”
“不。我。。。好吧，我保证你不会下车的，而我——“她看着他的脸，眉头皱得皱起。“我不是特别在乎你发生了什么。我什至不想看你。

There was a beat in which Lucius raised his eyebrows at her. To hear that Hermione cares-about-everyone Granger hadn’t given a jot about his fate, not even enough to revel in it, was certainly striking. Deserved but striking. 
卢修斯向她扬起了眉毛。听到赫敏关心格兰杰的每一个人，他都没有对自己的命运只字眼疾呼，甚至连陶醉其中的程度都没有，这当然令人震惊。当之无愧，但令人震惊。

“I’m sorry that sounds incredibly callous now but I –” she began in a hurry, setting the parchment aside.
“很抱歉，这听起来非常冷酷，但我——”她匆匆忙忙地开始，把羊皮纸放在一边。

“No, Hermione,” he cut across her. When he had stripped her of her humanity he supposed he lost the right to demand that she recognise his. Even still, nearly a decade later she had come knocking at his door looking for it. “I suppose I’m surprised you didn’t glean more enjoyment from it.”
“不，赫敏，”他打断了她。当他剥夺了她的人性时，他认为他失去了要求她承认他的人性的权利。即便如此，将近十年后，她还是来敲他的门寻找它。“我想我很惊讶你没有从中获得更多的乐趣。”

“I was satisfied that you were held accountable but I didn’t enjoy any of it.” She appeared almost disturbed that he would think that of her, shaking her head vehemently so that her curls bounced. “Nothing about any of it was enjoyable. Hearing all the things that had happened repeated in court, all those horrible things read out so dispassionately , I –” 
“我对你被追究责任感到满意，但我一点都不喜欢。”她似乎几乎感到不安，因为他会这样想她，她猛烈地摇头，使她的卷发弹跳起来。“这一切都不是令人愉快的。听到法庭上发生的所有事情一再发生，所有这些可怕的事情都如此冷静地宣读出来，我——”

Hermione stopped and closed her eyes, her hands coming to rest flat against the counter. Lucius thought he could see her neatly knotting up her frayed mental threads before her eyes opened again and met his. “Honestly, Lucius, I just wanted it to be over.”
赫敏停下脚步，闭上眼睛，双手平放在柜台上。卢修斯以为他能看到她整齐地打结着她磨损的精神线，然后她再次睁开眼睛，与他的眼睛相遇。“老实说，Lucius，我只是想结束这一切。”

“A feeling we shared.” For different reasons, he was sure.
“我们共有的感觉。”出于各种原因，他很确定。

Hermione reached for her tea and took a slow, recuperative drink, inspecting him over the rim of the cup. “How did you feel about the outcome of the trial?” she finally asked as she set the cup down. “I’m sure I remember reading in the Prophet clippings that you barely reacted and that you refused to allow your representative to make a statement on your behalf. They weren’t best pleased.”
赫敏伸手去拿茶，慢慢地喝了一口，一边在杯子的边缘打量着他。“你对审判的结果有什么感觉？” 她终于放下杯子问道。“我敢肯定，我记得在先知的剪报中读到，你几乎没有反应，你拒绝让你的代表代表你发表声明。他们并不高兴。

“Yes,” he said, displeasure dripping from his voice. “The Prophet made it perfectly clear that they were not satisfied when they camped their reporters outside of my home and bombarded my family with owls for nigh on a year. But I suppose I will tell you now what I didn’t see fit to tell them: the house arrest wasn’t expected. Or especially wanted.”
“是的，”他说，声音里流露出不悦。“先知非常清楚地表明，当他们在我家门外扎营记者，用猫头鹰轰炸我的家人将近一年时，他们并不满意。但我想我现在要告诉你，我认为不宜告诉他们的事情是：软禁是意料之中的。或者特别想要。

Hermione’s back straightened, her head tilting. “You didn’t…” She blinked, frowning. “I always just assumed the house arrest was what you’d pushed for. Maybe even paid for.” Lucius raised his eyebrows and Hermione added, “to avoid Azkaban”, her tone indicating she thought that should hardly require explanation.
赫敏挺直了背，歪着头。“你没有......”她眨了眨眼，皱起了眉头。“我一直认为软禁就是你想要的。甚至可能付钱。卢修斯扬起眉毛，赫敏补充道，“为了避开阿兹卡班”，她的语气表明她认为这几乎不需要解释。

“Azkaban was my preference, Hermione,” Lucius said, interlocking his fingers to create an arch on which he could rest his chin. “But the Wizengamot seemed to think that my prolonged presence in the prison might unsettle some of the other Death Eaters. They thought it might turn rather nasty. The Malfoy name wasn’t especially popular on either side in the end – we weren’t exactly the greatest helpers to the Dark Lord in those final moments, after all. Keeping me firmly locked in my own space was seen as the best option for everyone.”
“阿兹卡班是我的首选，赫敏，”卢修斯说，他的手指交错在一起，形成一个可以支撑下巴的拱形。“但威森加摩似乎认为我在监狱里呆得太久可能会让其他一些食死徒感到不安。他们认为情况可能会变得相当糟糕。马尔福这个名字到头来在双方都不是特别受欢迎——毕竟，在最后的时刻，我们并不是黑魔王最好的帮手。将我牢牢地锁在自己的空间里被视为每个人的最佳选择。

“It still sounds like you don’t see it that way,” Hermione said, her eyebrows lifting. “ Surely the Manor was a better option, Lucius. At least here, you have the safety and the space and the –”
“听起来你还是不是这么看的，”赫敏说，她的眉毛扬起。“当然，庄园是更好的选择，卢修斯。至少在这里，你有安全、空间和——”

“And the chance to spend every day in the company of the family whose lives I had jeopardised,” he said, his tone discordantly light. “Azkaban’s walls are confining but to my mind they do not resent, or judge or pity. Nor do they serve as a constant reminder of those you have wronged. I wanted Narcissa and Draco to live their lives without me, to enjoy some normality.” He lowered his clasped hands to the counter and met her eyes. “Instead I was left to haunt them.”
“还有每天与我生命受到威胁的家人共度的机会，”他说，语气不和谐地轻松。“阿兹卡班的围墙很严密，但在我看来，他们没有怨恨，也没有评判或怜悯。它们也不会不断提醒你曾经冤枉的人。我希望纳西莎和德拉科能过上没有我的生活，享受一些正常的生活。他把紧握的双手放到柜台上，与她的眼睛对上。“相反，我只能困扰他们。”

Two people with lives to live stuck in a decaying manor with a ghost they were obliged to humour because of some misguided sense of duty. That was what it had felt like. He had trapped them in Malfoy Manor with a murderous mad man and then he had trapped them with himself. 
两个有生命的人被困在一个腐朽的庄园里，和一个鬼魂在一起，由于一些被误导的责任感，他们不得不幽默。这就是当时的感觉。他把他们和一个杀人狂一起困在马尔福庄园里，然后他又把他们和自己困住了。

Hermione’s eyes were fixed on her teacup, her fingers reaching out to fiddle with the delicate handle. “Did you ever ask them what they wanted? Or how they felt about it?”
赫敏的眼睛盯着她的茶杯，伸出手指摆弄着精致的把手。“你有没有问过他们想要什么？或者他们对此有何感受？

Stiffening, Lucius attempted to sift through the haze of resentment, anger, self-pity and frustration that made up most of his memories of those early days of his house arrest. He couldn’t be entirely sure but the most likely answer was – “No,” he said. 
卢修斯僵硬着，试图筛选出怨恨、愤怒、自怜和沮丧的阴霾，这些构成了他对软禁早期的大部分记忆。他不能完全确定，但最可能的回答是——“不，”他说。

“Lucius –” Hermione reached out and laid a hand over his forearm. “Don't you think you were just making decisions for them in a different way?”
“卢修斯——”赫敏伸出一只手放在他的前臂上。“你不觉得你只是以不同的方式为他们做决定吗？”

His hand curled into a fist, his forearm flexing under her hand. That was an oversimplification. For a long time he had made decisions for the three of them – himself, Narcissa and Draco – as a unit but, after the war, he had decided to remove himself from the equation. He had decided to do what was best for just two of them, despite the fact that it made him miserable. 
他的手蜷缩成拳头，前臂在她的手下弯曲。这太简单化了。很长一段时间里，他都是为他们三个人——他自己、纳西莎和德拉科——作为一个整体做决定的，但是，在战争之后，他决定把自己从这个等式中抽离出来。他决定只为他们中的两个人做最好的事情，尽管这让他很痛苦。

Narcissa and Draco were, he was sure, the only reason he’d ever had the strength to make it to the end and he’d felt he owed it to them to unshackle them from him, even if it jeopardised his ability to stay afloat. 
纳西莎和德拉科是，他确信，这是他有力量坚持到最后的唯一原因，他觉得他应该给他们解开枷锁，即使这会危及他维持生计的能力。

If they didn’t hate and resent him by the end of the war, he’d reasoned, then 20 years of house arrest would certainly see to it. He hadn’t especially relished the idea of being able to pinpoint the day when the last, flickering traces of affection disappeared from their eyes. 
他想，如果他们在战争结束时不憎恨和怨恨他，那么 20 年的软禁肯定会解决这个问题。他并不是特别喜欢能够确定他们眼中最后一丝闪烁的爱意痕迹消失的那一天。

“Well, people don’t always want what’s best for them, isn’t that right?” he said stiffly, recalling Hermione’s own words as his eyes flicked from her hand up to her face. “I failed them in every possible way and they owed me nothing.”
“嗯，人们并不总是想要对他们最好的，不是吗？”他僵硬地说，想起赫敏自己的话，他的眼睛从她的手上扫到她的脸上。“我在各个方面都辜负了他们，他们什么也不欠我。”

“Maybe they chose not to focus on the failures. Maybe they were more concerned about the times you tried for them. The times you tried to protect them.” Lucius scoffed but Hermione wasn’t to be deterred. “I know you're sorry Lucius but…” Her hand squeezed his arm in a reflexive way that told him she was nervous about what she was about to say next. “But punishing yourself isn't an apology. Especially not to the ones you love, who love you . You’re just punishing them too.”
“也许他们选择不关注失败。也许他们更关心你为他们尝试的时间。你试图保护他们的时候。卢修斯嗤之以鼻，但赫敏并没有被吓倒。“我知道你很抱歉，Lucius，但是......”她的手条件反射地捏住了他的手臂，告诉他她对接下来要说的话感到紧张。“但惩罚自己不是道歉。尤其是对你爱的人，爱你的人。你也只是在惩罚他们。

Looking down at her hand on his forearm, the pressure firm but the intent gentle, Lucius was reminded of the way he had seen Astoria touch Draco so much over the years. Against his expectations, he wasn’t angered by it. 
低头看着她放在他前臂上的手，压力坚定但意图温柔，卢修斯想起了这些年来他看到阿斯托利亚如此频繁地抚摸德拉科的方式。出乎他的意料，他并没有因此而生气。

Hermione touched with an ease that he had never known. He could do physical closeness – certainly sex was no problem – but touching for comfort, touching as an extension or acknowledgement of emotional vulnerability, was not something he had been raised to do. Nor had Narcissa but he had encouraged her to direct any natural instincts she’d had in that area towards Draco.
赫敏以一种他从未见过的轻松抚摸。他可以进行身体上的亲密接触——当然，性爱没有问题——但为了安慰而抚摸，抚摸作为情感脆弱的延伸或承认，并不是他从小就被教育要做的事情。纳西莎也没有，但他鼓励她把她在那个区域的任何自然直觉都指向德拉科。

He knew that he had nowhere to redirect Hermione and he was sure that he was only able to accept what she was doing because, as he had told her, he believed she had nothing but honourable intentions. She had never given him any reason to believe otherwise. 
他知道他无处可去找赫敏，他确信他只能接受她的所作所为，因为正如他告诉她的那样，他相信她除了光荣的意图之外别无他法。她从来没有给他任何理由去相信。

For quite a long time, as Lucius had watched Draco turn away from the values and beliefs that he and Narcissa had worked hard to instil in him, Lucius had convinced himself that Astoria was hollowing his son out; carving away the parts of him that made him a strong, effective Malfoy. Now, as he felt Hermione squeeze him reassuringly, he was less sure. In fact, Lucius wondered if Astoria wasn’t resurfacing his son, strengthening him by filling in the cracks that had been made over the years as a result of Lucius’ own carelessness. 
在相当长的一段时间里，当卢修斯看着德拉科背离他和纳西莎努力灌输给他的价值观和信仰时，卢修斯说服自己，阿斯托利亚正在掏空他的儿子;剥去他身上使他成为一个强大、有效的马尔福的部分。现在，当他感觉到赫敏安心地挤压着他时，他就不那么确定了。事实上，卢修斯想知道阿斯托利亚是否没有让他的儿子重新浮出水面，通过填补多年来因卢修斯自己的粗心大意而造成的裂缝来增强他的力量。

Lucius swallowed hard and, avoiding meeting Hermione’s eyes, he placed his right hand over the one she had on his left arm. His palm covered her knuckles and his fingers extended down towards her delicate wrist. She almost disappeared under him.
卢修斯用力咽了口口水，避免与赫敏的眼睛相遇，他将右手放在她左臂上的那只手上。他的手掌捂住了她的指关节，他的手指向下伸向她纤细的手腕。她几乎消失在他身下。

He had never seen himself as a broken man. He did not need fixing. But he hadn’t realised how empty his life had become until she had begun to fill it. With her masses of hair, her incessant chattering, her formidable temper and her general ebullience. She was a veritable feast of a person and she reminded him how hungry he could be; how hungry he was . As he allowed his eyes to travel up her chest, her narrow neck, her plump cheeks, to her warm, caramel eyes, he realised he could devour her. He could consume all the good she had to give, leave her empty, and it probably still wouldn’t be enough. 
他从来没有把自己看作一个破碎的人。他不需要修理。但他没有意识到他的生活已经变得多么空虚，直到她开始填补它。她那一头浓密的头发，她不停的喋喋不休，她那令人生畏的脾气和她一般的热情洋溢。她是一个名副其实的人的盛宴，她提醒他他可以有多饿;他有多饿。当他的目光顺着她的胸膛、她狭窄的脖子、丰满的脸颊，滑向她温暖的焦糖色眼睛时，他意识到他可以吞噬她。他可以消耗她必须给予的所有好处，让她空虚，这可能仍然不够。

“Lucius?” she enquired softly, turning her hand under his so that their palms touched and her fingers brushed against the inside of his wrist as his did the same. He could feel the barely perceptible thrum of her pulse beneath his fingertips and as his eyes travelled up he saw the outline of her scar. Mudblood .
“卢修斯？”她轻声问道，将手放在他的手下，让他们的手掌接触，她的手指像他的一样抚摸着他的手腕内侧。他能感觉到她指尖下几乎无法察觉的脉搏嗡嗡作响，当他的眼睛向上移动时，他看到了她伤疤的轮廓。 泥巴血统 .

What if it was enough, though? How many years had he spent underestimating her and how much she had to offer? Maybe Hermione Granger had more than even someone as greedy as him could ever take. Maybe she’d finally sate him. Whether he deserved that – her – was another matter entirely.
不过，如果这就足够了呢？他花了多少年时间低估了她，她能提供多少？也许赫敏·格兰杰拥有的比他这样贪婪的人所能接受的还要多。也许她终于让他满意了。他是否配得上——她——完全是另一回事。

It was possible that without years of imprisonment and relative isolation greying his view of the world he would never have even entertained the notion. But he had been imprisoned. He had been isolated. His appetites had changed.
如果没有多年的监禁和相对孤立，他对世界的看法可能永远不会有这种想法。但他已经被关进了监狱。他被孤立了。他的胃口变了。

“Let’s say, for argument’s sake, that you could be right,” he said carefully, not missing the way her shoulders dropped with relief. "What is the right way?"
“为了争论，我们就说，你可能是对的，”他小心翼翼地说，没有错过她松了一口气的肩膀。“什么是正确的方法？”

"I think that's for you to find out."
“我想那是让你去发现的。”

He scoffed, fixing her with a sceptical look. “A very easy get out for you.”
他嘲笑着，用怀疑的眼神盯着她。“你很容易出去。”

“Apologies aren’t one-size-fits-all, Lucius,” she said, lifting her shoulders fractionally. “You’ll figure it out. The first step is usually saying, you know, that actual word: ‘sorry’. Then the actions follow.”
“道歉不是放之四海而皆准的，Lucius，”她说，稍微抬起了肩膀。“你会想办法的。第一步通常是说，你知道的，那个实际的词：'对不起'。然后行动就跟着走了。

Lucius was just opening his mouth to respond when, over his shoulder, he heard the sound of the kitchen door opening. If he hadn’t heard it, the way Hermione’s body immediately tensed up as she whipped her hands away from him would have been another good signal that someone else was entering the room. 
卢修斯刚张开嘴准备回答，这时，他听到了厨房门打开的声音。如果他没有听到，赫敏在她将手从他身上抽开时身体立即绷紧的样子，这将是另一个很好的信号，表明有人进入了房间。

“Oh.” It was Draco’s voice. Lucius’ eyes briefly fluttered closed, his face tightening into a wince. “Sorry, I didn’t realise you would be in here, you don’t usually –”
“哦。”那是德拉科的声音。卢修斯短暂地闭上了眼睛，他的脸紧绷起来。“抱歉，我没想到你会在这里，你通常不会——”

“No,” Hermione waved a hand, her voice noticeably higher than usual as she looked around Lucius in the direction of his son. “Don’t worry, we don’t, you’re right. Just thought we’d try a change of setting so I could make some tea and show your father how –” 
“不，”赫敏挥了挥手，她的声音明显比平时高，她环顾着卢修斯，看向他儿子的方向。“别担心，我们没有，你说得对。只是想我们试着换个环境，这样我就可以泡点茶，然后教你爸爸怎么——”

Her eyes fell down on Lucius who, with an infinitesimal jerk of his head, told her to shut up and not tell his son that she’d been showing him how to make tea. The humiliation .
她的目光落在卢修斯身上，卢修斯猛地摇了摇头，让她闭嘴，不要告诉他儿子她一直在教他泡茶。 羞辱 .

“How well I can make a cup of tea,” she finished, noticeably slightly irritated by how silly her lie made her sound. 
“我真能泡一杯茶，”她说完，显然对她的谎言听起来如此愚蠢而略显恼火。

“Always love an opportunity to show off, don’t you, Granger,” Draco said, snorting softly. Lucius fractionally turned his head as Draco sauntered around into his eyeline on the side of the counter opposite he and Hermione. “And what did you think, father? Of Granger's marvellous tea-making?”
“你总是喜欢炫耀的机会，不是吗，格兰杰，”德拉科说，轻轻地哼了一声。卢修斯微微转过头来，德拉科在他和赫敏对面的柜台一侧漫步到他的视线中。“爸爸，你怎么看呢？关于格兰杰的奇妙泡茶吗？

“Acceptable,” Lucius said stiffly, turning his gaze down to the tea in question.
“可以接受，”卢修斯僵硬地说，把目光转向那杯茶。

Draco nodded, his lip jutted out in a pout and his eyebrows raised, before he looked at Hermione. “That’s good , Granger,” he explained with mock reassurance, adding, “You’ll never get an O from him.” 
德拉科点点头，他的嘴唇撅起，眉毛上扬，然后看着赫敏。“那很好，格兰杰，”他假装安慰地解释道，并补充说，“你永远不会从他那里得到 O。

Lucius was close enough to Hermione to notice the way her fingers twitched at Draco’s words and his eyes slid over to her to see a very pink blush rising up her neck. Raising a hand to his mouth, Lucius brushed away the smile that was threatening at the corners of his lips and cleared his throat. 
卢修斯离赫敏足够近，注意到她的手指在德拉科的话中抽搐的样子，他的眼睛滑向她，看到一团非常粉红色的红晕从她的脖子上升起。卢修斯抬起一只手捂住嘴巴，拂去嘴角威胁的笑容，清了清嗓子。

“Anyway.” Draco nodded to the Wheezebox, which was still recording. “Sorry, I’ll leave you both to it. I only came into make a cup of tea but it can wait until you’re –”
“总之。”德拉科向仍在录音的 Wheezebox 点了点头。“对不起，我就交给你们俩了。我只是来泡一杯茶的，但可以等到你——”

“No, no,” Hermione said abruptly, lurching forward to tap the Wheezebox with her wand before snatching it up and sliding to her feet. “I think we’ve got most of what we need and I’m here often enough that you and I can fill any gaps later, Lucius. I’ll just –” She waved a hand between them. “Just leave you two.” Hermione cast Lucius a meaningful look as she hauled her satchel onto her shoulder and he rolled his eyes skyward in response. 
“不，不，”赫敏突然说，猛地向前用魔杖敲了敲喘息盒，然后把它抓起来滑了起来。“我想我们已经得到了我们所需要的大部分东西，而且我经常在这里，你和我以后可以填补任何空白，Lucius。我就——“她在他们之间挥了挥手。“就让你们两个走。”赫敏意味深长地看了卢修斯一眼，她把书包拖到肩上，卢修斯向天空翻了个白眼作为回应。

“To do what?” Draco asked, eyeing Hermione’s hurried movements with no small amount of bewilderment. 
“做什么？”德拉科问道，看着赫敏匆忙忙的动作，带着不小的困惑。

“Whatever it is that Malfoys do when outsiders aren’t around,” Hermione said distractedly, thumbing through the sheafs of parchment she had picked up from the counter to make sure she had everything. “Shed, moult, I don’t know.”
“不管马尔福一家在外人不在的时候做什么，”赫敏心不在焉地说，用拇指翻阅她从柜台上捡来的一捆羊皮纸，以确保她拥有所有东西。“谢德，换羽，我不知道。”

“Merlin,” said Draco, “you really are a cheeky –”
“梅林，”德拉科说，“你真是个厚脸皮——”

“Bye!” Hermione called over, marching out of the room without a backwards glance. 
“再见！”赫敏叫了一声，大步走出了房间，头也不回地看了一眼。

The door closed with a loud thud and Lucius slowly shook his head into the silence she had left behind. She was unbelievable. Only Hermione Granger could interfere by extracting herself from a situation. And she didn’t even have the grace to be subtle about it.
门砰的一声关上了，卢修斯在她留下的寂静中缓缓摇了摇头。她太不可思议了。只有赫敏·格兰杰能够通过让自己摆脱困境来干预。她甚至没有优雅地对此保持微妙。

“Do you know,” Draco said to Lucius, “I think she’s gotten entirely too comfortable here and I can only apologise for helping that happen.”
“你知道吗，”德拉科对卢修斯说，“我觉得她在这里已经太舒服了，我只能为帮助这种情况发生而道歉。

He glanced at Lucius’ unfinished tea and gave a purposeful nod that signalled he’d been reminded of his original purpose on entering the room. Forgoing the kettle, Draco simply waved his wand so that the tea began making itself. Using magic was certainly faster than what Hermione had done but Lucius noted with interest that it lacked the physical rituality that she had seemed to enjoy. 
他看了一眼卢修斯没喝完的茶，故意点了点头，表示他进屋时已经想起了自己的初衷。Draco放弃了水壶，只是挥动了他的魔杖，让茶开始自行泡。使用魔法肯定比赫敏做的要快，但卢修斯饶有兴趣地注意到，它缺乏她似乎喜欢的身体仪式。

“Though you seem to be coping with it with far more ease than you used to,” Draco added, drawing his father’s attention again. "I noticed at dinner the other night."
“虽然你似乎比以前轻松多了，”德拉科补充道，再次引起了他父亲的注意。“我那天晚上吃晚饭时注意到了。”

Not for the first time, Lucius pondered the necessity of telling his son about how his relationship with Hermione had shifted. It was less to do with Hermione and more to do with his sense that Draco would not like to be kept in the dark about things that were happening in his own home. Any patience Draco might once have had for secrets, or a sense that he was not fully informed, had been thoroughly destroyed by the war. Quite reasonably so, Lucius supposed.
这不是第一次，卢修斯思考着有必要告诉他的儿子他和赫敏的关系发生了怎样的变化。这与赫敏关系不大，而与他的感觉有关，他觉得德拉科不想被蒙在鼓里，不知道自己家里发生的事情。德拉科曾经对秘密的任何耐心，或者他没有完全了解情况的感觉，都已经被战争彻底摧毁了。这很合理，卢修斯想。

The problem was that he knew it wasn’t the time to say anything, partly because of the Wizengamot and partly because he didn’t know what in Merlin’s name to tell Draco was actually happening. It was, he convinced himself, surely better to wait until he could give a satisfactory explanation. Because ‘I’m sleeping with your former classmate’ certainly wasn’t that.
问题是他知道现在不是说什么的时候，部分原因是威森加摩，部分是因为他不知道以梅林的名义告诉德拉科到底发生了什么。他说服自己，最好还是等到他能给出一个令人满意的解释。因为'我和你以前的同学睡了'肯定不是那个。

So he simply replied, “I’ve adapted.”
所以他简单地回答说：“我已经适应了。

“Clearly,” Draco said archly, picking up his cup and sliding onto the stool that Hermione had vacated. “At the risk of you recoiling with horror, I’ll observe that you’re almost getting on. Pretty big change if you ask me.”
“显然，”德拉科拱手说，拿起他的杯子，滑到赫敏腾出的凳子上。“冒着你吓得退缩的风险，我发现你快要上路了。如果你问我，这是一个相当大的变化。

Lucius’ eyes flicked upwards in a roll and he gave Draco a noncommittal noise that could reasonably, though not reliably, be taken for agreement. “What did she say that finally won you around, then?” Draco pushed. “It must have been good.”
卢修斯的眼睛向上眨了眨，他给了德拉科一个不置可否的声音，这个声音可以合理地，尽管不可靠，但可以被认为是同意的。“那么，她说了什么最终赢得了你的青睐？”德拉科推了推。“一定很好。”

“I…” Lucius’ brows pulled together in a frown and he lifted his gaze from the counter to his son’s face. “I don’t know. Does the cliff face know which droplet of water to blame for its erosion?”
“我......”卢修斯皱起眉头，将目光从柜台上移到儿子的脸上。“我不知道。悬崖表面知道它的侵蚀应该归咎于哪一滴水吗？

Draco snorted. “Fair enough. It’s nice to see you two not at one another’s throats.” Tilting his head, Draco gave his father a small smile. “I’m…pleased for you. Must be a relief having someone like Granger to talk to. She’s a nightmare but she can be good company when she wants to be.”
德拉科哼了一声。“很公平。很高兴看到你们俩没有互相争吵。Draco歪着头，对他的父亲微微一笑。“我......为你感到高兴。有像 Granger 这样的人可以交谈，这一定是一种解脱。她是一场噩梦，但当她想成为时，她可以成为好伙伴。

There was a tightness in Lucius’ throat that made it hard to reply but Draco didn’t seem to mind. Taking a sip of his tea, Draco allowed his eyes to scour the kitchen counter, spying two used plates and the still-open tin of cake. 
卢修斯的喉咙发紧，很难回答，但德拉科似乎并不介意。啜了一口茶，德拉科让他的眼睛扫视着厨房的柜台，窥视着两个用过的盘子和还开着的蛋糕罐。

“So, she finally persuaded you to try some then?” he asked, his head jutting in the direction of the crumb-covered plate that lay in front of Lucius.
“那么，她终于说服你尝尝了吧？”他问道，他的头伸向放在卢修斯面前的布满碎屑的盘子的方向。

“Yes,” Lucius said, nudging the plate away with his elbow like it was incriminating him. “I found myself pleasantly surprised.”
“是的，”卢修斯说，用手肘把盘子推开，就像在给他定罪一样。“我发现自己感到惊喜。”

“Me too,” Draco agreed with enthusiasm, pulling the tin towards himself to peer into it. “I prefer things to be really sweet and this isn’t but it just works , you know? Besides, I always thought baking was a weird hobby for Granger but then when she explained to me how painstakingly exact you have to be it made more sense. She's not one for straying from a recipe. More trust in instructions than her own instincts if that makes –” Draco stopped in the process of eagerly lifting a slice of cake out of the tin when his eyes landed on Lucius. “Father, are you alright?”
“我也是，”德拉科热情地答应了，把罐子拉向自己看了看。“我更喜欢真正甜蜜的东西，这不是，但它就是有效，你知道吗？此外，我一直认为烘焙对 Granger 来说是一个奇怪的爱好，但后来当她向我解释你必须多么煞费苦心地精确时，这就更有意义了。她不是一个偏离食谱的人。如果那能让——“德拉科急切地从罐子里拿出一片蛋糕时停了下来，这时他的目光落在了卢修斯身上。“爸爸，你还好吗？”

For a brief moment, while watching his son be almost childlike in his chattiness and enthusiasm for a slice of cake, Lucius had obviously lost control of his face. Draco had always loved anything sweet. Narcissa had insisted on sending him no end of care packages in his early years at Hogwarts, hadn’t she? Lucius wasn’t sure he’d ever forget the day he’d walked into his study to find a young Draco biting into a very expensive cigar that was intended for Fudge, having assumed it was made from chocolate. 
有那么一瞬间，当看着他的儿子在喋喋不休和对一块蛋糕的热情中几乎像孩子一样时，卢修斯显然已经失去了对自己脸上的控制。德拉科一直喜欢任何甜食。纳西莎在他早年在霍格沃茨的时候就坚持给他寄不完的爱心包，不是吗？卢修斯不确定他是否会忘记那天，他走进自己的书房，发现年轻的德拉科正在咬着一根非常昂贵的雪茄，这支雪茄本来是给福吉的，他以为它是用巧克力做的。

Though he couldn’t be entirely sure what his expression looked like, Lucius thought there was a good chance that it hinted at his overwhelming feelings of regret that he had forced a boy to grow far too quickly by feeding him a bitterness that was so obviously against his natural tastes.
虽然他不能完全确定自己的表情是什么样子，但卢修斯认为这很有可能暗示了他压倒性的后悔，因为他给一个男孩喂食了明显违背他天生口味的苦涩，强迫他过快地成长。

“I’m...sorry, Draco.” It was hard to offer specifics for multitudes so Lucius just did what Hermione had suggested and said the word with more sincerity than he had ever said anything. "I'm sorry."
“我......对不起，德拉科。很难为许多人提供具体细节，所以卢修斯只是按照赫敏的建议去做，说出这个词时比他任何时候都更真诚。“对不起。”

Slowly, delicately, Draco placed his slice of cake on the plate Hermione had abandoned. “I know,” he said quietly. His eyes flicked up and met Lucius’. “I know you are.” A ghost of a smile flitted over Draco’s face, an encouraging if sad smile, and Lucius felt the knot in his stomach loosen fractionally. 
慢慢地，慢慢地，小心翼翼地，德拉科把他的蛋糕片放在赫敏丢掉的盘子里。“我知道，”他轻声说。他的眼睛眨了眨，与卢修斯的眼睛对上了。“我知道你是。”德拉科的脸上闪过一丝幽灵般的微笑，一个鼓励而又悲伤的微笑，卢修斯感觉到他胃里的结稍微松动了。

Clearing his throat, Draco straightened up and jerked his head towards the cake tin. “If you want another slice, I’d take it now. Once Astoria gets wind of this it’s over for all of us.”
清了清嗓子，德拉科直起身来，猛地把头转向蛋糕罐。“如果你想要另一片，我现在就吃。一旦 Astoria 得到风声，我们所有人都结束了。

Chapter 29
第二十九章Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you everyone for continuing to read and comment and kudos <3 Marvels the lot of you.
感谢大家继续阅读和评论，并点赞 <3 让你们中的很多人感到惊奇。

July 28th
7 月 28 日

Hermione sighed, set the letter from Quotes and Quills on her coffee table and proceeded to stare at it dejectedly. It was a short letter. A rejection. Her third of the week. It had, perhaps, been arrogant of her—in fact, it had definitely been arrogant—but she had assumed that the publishing houses of the wizarding world would be vying over her proposal. 
赫敏叹了口气，把《名言与羽毛笔》的信放在她的咖啡桌上，然后沮丧地盯着它看。这是一封简短的信。拒绝。她本周的第三次。也许，这是对她的傲慢——事实上，这绝对是傲慢的——但她已经预料到魔法世界的出版社会争夺她的提议。

The most frustrating thing was that this rejection, much like the first two, wasn't particularly forthcoming when it came to reasons. “We thank you for reaching out to us, Miss Granger … great respect for you and all that you have done … Certainly an intriguing proposal …Just not the right fit for us right now.” They were all very much the same and they left her feeling like she’d hit a dead end.
最令人沮丧的是，这次拒绝，就像前两次一样，在原因方面并不是特别坦率。“我们感谢您与我们联系，格兰杰小姐......非常尊重你和你所做的一切......当然是一个有趣的提议......只是现在不适合我们。他们都差不多，让她觉得自己走进了死胡同。

The first hadn’t bothered her; the second had unsettled her but this one made her wonder if something was wrong. She had spent the last two solid weeks putting her book together in Malfoy library – with breaks to visit Lucius – and it was taking shape very nicely. To her eyes, at least. Maybe there was something that she wasn’t seeing.
第一个并没有打扰她;第二次让她感到不安，但这一次让她怀疑是不是出了什么问题。她花了整整两周的时间在马尔福图书馆整理她的书——还有时间去拜访卢修斯——而且它进展得非常顺利。至少在她眼里是这样。也许有什么她没有看到的。

Pressing her hands against her knees, Hermione forced herself to her feet with another heavy sigh. Perhaps she’d give herself a day off. Lucius had a pile of books in his study that she was itching to get her hands on and a few hours lounging on his sofa didn’t sound too terrible. Especially if he was on it too. Maybe they could –
赫敏双手抵住膝盖，又重重地叹了口气，强迫自己站起来。也许她会给自己放一天假。卢修斯的书房里有一堆书，她很想拿到这些书，在他的沙发上懒洋洋地躺上几个小时听起来还不错。特别是如果他也在其中。也许他们可以——

Hermione’s thoughts were interrupted when her fireplace flashed green and a figure with flame red hair came spinning into view. 
赫敏的思绪被打断了，这时她的壁炉闪着绿色的光芒，一个有着火红色头发的身影旋转着出现在眼前。

“Ginny!” Hermione stepped around the coffee table with a wide smile, her arms extended in welcome. “Oh and my favourite godson, too, of course,” Hermione added with a warm smile at James who looked around from his position cuddled in Ginny’s arms to fix Hermione with his wide, bright stare. 
“金妮！”赫敏带着灿烂的笑容绕着咖啡桌走来走去，伸出双臂表示欢迎。“哦，当然还有我最喜欢的教子，”赫敏对詹姆斯温暖地笑着补充道，詹姆斯从他依偎在金妮怀里的位置环顾四周，用他那睁大而明亮的目光盯着赫敏。

“Sorry about the unannounced visit,” Ginny said, grunting as she lowered James to the ground. Straightening up she exhaled with a smile and placed her hands on her hips. “Harry and I thought we might divide and conquer today. He’s got Albus in the house and it occurred to me that I haven’t seen you in a bloody age .”
“很抱歉，这次突然来访，”金妮咕哝着把詹姆斯放到地上。她直起身来，微笑着呼出一口气，双手放在臀部上。“哈利和我想我们今天可能会分而治之。他家里有阿不思，我突然想到，我已经很久没见过你了。

“I’ve been pretty head down into the book,” Hermione explained apologetically. “But you picked the right day.” Hermione ushered Ginny further into the living room and towards the sofa. “I was just considering taking a day off…”
“我一直很埋头看这本书，”赫敏抱歉地解释道。“但你选对了。”赫敏把金妮领进了客厅，朝沙发走去。“我只是想休息一天......”

“What’s wrong?” Ginny asked sharply as she lowered herself onto the sofa.
“怎么了？”金妮猛地问道，她把自己放到沙发上。

Hermione stepped around James, who had settled himself on the floor to make his phoenix soft toy fly with his assistance, and raised her eyebrows at Ginny. “What do you mean ‘what’s wrong’? Why do you assume anything’s wrong?”
赫敏绕过詹姆斯，詹姆斯已经在地板上坐下，在他的帮助下让他的凤凰毛绒玩具飞起来，然后对金妮扬起眉毛。“你说的'怎么了'是什么意思？你为什么认为有什么不对劲呢？

“You’re considering taking a day off,” Ginny said, as though this made it perfectly obvious. “And you said it with this look . It’s the ‘Hermione feels discouraged’ look; we all know it. It makes us sad. And worried.”
“你在考虑休息一天，”金妮说，仿佛这已经说明了一切。“你用这个眼神说了这句话。这是“赫敏感到沮丧”的表情;我们都知道。这让我们感到难过。而且很担心。

Hermione laughed and dropped herself onto the seat beside Ginny, leaning back into the comfortable cushions with closed eyes. “No, I just –” Opening her eyes, Hermione found they immediately landed on the letter on the table and cringed. “Okay, so, publishers aren’t jumping on the book as quickly as I thought they might and, yes, it’s discouraging me.”
赫敏笑了起来，坐到金妮旁边的座位上，闭着眼睛靠在舒适的靠垫上。“不，我只是——”赫敏睁开眼睛，发现他们立刻落在了桌上的信上，吓了一跳。“好吧，所以，出版商并没有像我想象的那样迅速地跳上这本书，是的，这让我很沮丧。”

“Do you mind if I –” Having followed Hermione’s gaze, Ginny gestured to the letter on the table. Hermione shook her head and lifted her hand in a ‘go on’ gesture. Picking up the letter, Ginny disappeared behind it. 
“你介意我——”顺着赫敏的目光看去，金妮指了指桌上的信。赫敏摇了摇头，抬起手做了一个“继续”的手势。金妮捡起信，消失在信后面。

“They don’t give much away do they?” Ginny finally said, lowering the parchment to reveal pursed lips and a furrowed brow.
“他们不会泄露太多东西，对吧？”金妮终于说了，放下羊皮纸，露出抿起的嘴唇和皱起的眉头。

“No, that’s part of the problem. I’m not sure if there’s anything I should switch or change or if it really isn’t the right fit.” Hermione sighed and ran a hand across her forehead. “I just have to keep trying.”
“不，这是问题的一部分。我不确定是否有我应该改变或改变的东西，或者它是否真的不合适。赫敏叹了口气，一只手滑过她的额头。“我只需要继续努力。”

Ginny nodded and folded the letter, setting it back onto the table before casting Hermione a sympathetic look. “You’ll get somewhere and they’ll be the right place, not least because they won’t be so bloody opaque.”
金妮点点头，把信折叠起来，放回桌上，然后同情地看了赫敏一眼。“你会到达某个地方，他们会是正确的地方，尤其是因为它们不会那么血腥不透明。”

“Here’s hoping,” said Hermione with a weak smile. “Anyway, I’m glad you’re here, we can –”
“希望来了，”赫敏虚弱地笑着说。“不管怎样，我很高兴你在这里，我们可以——”

Before Hermione could make any suggestion as to what she and Ginny could do, the fire opposite them flashed green once again and her head snapped around to see another, much taller, figure spinning in it. A moment later, she blinked rapidly, her head drawing back into her neck as Draco Malfoy emerged from the grate. 
在赫敏还没来得及对她和金妮能做什么提出任何建议之前，他们对面的火堆又一次闪过了绿色的光芒，她猛地转过头来，看到另一个高得多的身影在里面旋转。片刻之后，她迅速地眨了眨眼，当德拉科·马尔福从炉排里出来时，她的头缩回了她的脖子里。

He dusted off his neat black cloak and ran a hand through his short blonde hair before looking up and freezing on the spot, his hand seemingly sticking to the back of his neck. His eyes momentarily widened at the sight of Ginny and he looked back to Hermione, opening his mouth to speak as his hand descended to his side. 
他掸掉整洁的黑色斗篷上的灰尘，用一只手抚摸着他的金色短发，然后抬起头来，当场僵住了，他的手似乎粘在了他的后颈上。看到金妮，他瞬间睁大了眼睛，他回头看向赫敏，张开嘴想说话，同时他的手垂到了他的身边。

Just as the faintest sound came from his mouth, however, Ginny shot to her feet beside Hermione and seemed to find the voice that had vanished in shock at his sudden appearance. “What are you doing here?”
然而，就在他嘴里发出最微弱的声音时，金妮在赫敏身边跳了起来，似乎找到了那个因他的突然出现而震惊地消失的声音。“你在这里做什么？”

“Ginny!” Hermione cast Draco a stricken, apologetic look and took Ginny by the arm to pull her back down onto the sofa. She was unsuccessful, Ginny wrenching her arm out of Hermione’s grip.
“金妮！”赫敏向德拉科投去一个痛苦的、抱歉的眼神，然后拉着金妮的胳膊，把她拉回沙发上。她没有成功，金妮把她的手臂从赫敏的手里拽了出来。

With impressive speed, Draco’s face transitioned from surprise, to embarrassment before settling on haughty disregard. “I’ve come to visit Granger, not that that’s any of your business,” he sneered, crossing his arms. His eyes flicked to Hermione’s and she saw his uncertainty, even disappointment, beneath it all. “Clearly I picked the wrong time; I’ll just go.” 
以惊人的速度，德拉科的脸色从惊讶转变为尴尬，然后傲慢地无视。“我是来拜访格兰杰的，不是那不关你的事，”他交叉双臂冷笑道。他的眼睛眨向赫敏的眼睛，她看到了这一切背后的他的不确定，甚至是失望。“显然我选错了时间;我就走。

“No!” Hermione propelled herself to her feet to reach out for Draco across the coffee table as he turned back towards the fire. To her relief, he stopped, though he didn’t face her, merely half-turning back into the room instead.
“不！”赫敏站起身来，伸手去碰咖啡桌对面的德拉科，而德拉科则转身走向火堆。令她松了一口气的是，他停了下来，尽管他没有面对她，只是半转身回到房间里。

“What, you expect me to go?” Ginny asked incredulously, raising a hand to her chest as she looked between Hermione’s outstretched hand and Draco’s now-still form. 
“什么，你指望我去？”金妮难以置信地问道，她将一只手举到胸前，看着赫敏伸出的手和德拉科现在静止的身影。

“No, I do not ,” Hermione huffed, straightening up and dropping her hand to place it on her hip. Giving Ginny a stern look, Hermione said, “Here’s a suggestion: why don’t you both stay. At the same time. And join me in a nice cup of tea as my friends. I could really do with the company.”
“不，我没有，”赫敏气喘吁吁地站起身来，把手放到她的臀部上。赫敏严肃地看了金妮一眼，说：“这里有个建议：你们俩为什么不留下来。同时。和我一起喝杯好茶，就像我的朋友一样。我真的可以和公司做点什么。

Ginny and Draco scoffed simultaneously and then cast one another irritated looks, clearly enraged that the other had dared to exhibit any kind of similarity. Hermione rolled her eyes. 
金妮和德拉科同时嘲笑着，然后互相投来恼怒的眼神，显然对对方敢表现出任何相似之处感到愤怒。赫敏翻了个白眼。

“I’m your friend,” Ginny said, facing Hermione but casting Draco a dismissive look from the corner of her eyes. “Not his.”
“我是你的朋友，”金妮说，面对赫敏，但用眼角的余光投向德拉科一个轻蔑的眼神。“不是他的。”

“As though I would ever want to be your friend, Weaselette,” Draco said irritably, fully turning to face them. 
“就好像我永远都想成为你的朋友一样，Weaselette，”Draco恼怒地说，完全转过身来面对他们。

Ginny laughed derisively. “Weaselette? Really? That's the best you can do, Ferret?”
金妮嘲讽地笑了起来。“黄鼠狼？真？这就是你能做的最好的了，雪貂？

“I'm not going to waste my creativity on you,” Draco snapped as Hermione sighed and rubbed a frustrated hand over her eyes.
“我不会把我的创造力浪费在你身上，”德拉科厉声说，赫敏叹了口气，沮丧地用手捂住了她的眼睛。

“Would you both please stop ,” she said, holding up a hand. “We are all adults and it’d be great if we could just act like it for five bloody minutes.”
“你们俩请停下来，”她说，举起一只手。“我们都是成年人，如果我们能像这样表演五分钟就好了。”

“I can be an adult,” Draco said sniffily. Then, jerking his head at Ginny, he added, “Don’t think she’s capable of it, though.”
“我可以成为一个成年人，”德拉科轻蔑地说。然后，他猛地对金妮说，“不过，别觉得她能做到。

“Oh that’s rich coming from the spoiled brat ,” Ginny spat. “You can hardly call yourself an adult when your daddy—”
“哦，这可是那个被宠坏的小子的钱啊，”金妮啐了一口。“你爸爸——”

Ginny abruptly stopped talking as her eyes were drawn to James Potter who, while they’d been arguing, had lifted himself from the floor and toddled over to Malfoy on unsteady feet. Reaching Draco, James reached out and grabbed at his trouser leg to keep himself steady, his phoenix toy clutched tightly in his other hand.
金妮突然停止了说话，因为她的目光被詹姆·波特吸引了，当他们争吵时，詹姆·波特已经从地板上站起来，蹒跚地走到马尔福身边，脚步不稳。詹姆斯走到德拉科身边，伸手抓住了他的裤腿，让自己保持稳定，另一只手紧紧地攥着他的凤凰玩具。

Wide-eyed, Draco stared down at the young boy as though he wasn’t entirely sure what he was looking at. Glancing up at a baffled Ginny, he then turned to Hermione, silently imploring her to help him.
德拉科睁大了眼睛，低头盯着这个小男孩，仿佛他不完全确定自己在看什么。他抬头看了一眼困惑的金妮，然后转向赫敏，默默地恳求她帮助他。

James tugged sharply on Draco’s trouser leg, drawing his attention down again. James looked up and smiled. “Hi,” he said, his voice quiet and babyish. James held up his phoenix toy to show it to Draco, waving it to make its wings flap. 
詹姆斯猛烈地拉扯着德拉科的裤腿，再次吸引了他的注意力。詹姆斯抬起头来，笑了笑。“嗨，”他说，他的声音安静而幼稚。詹姆斯举起他的凤凰玩具给德拉科看，挥舞着它让它的翅膀扇动。

Hermione saw Malfoy swallow before he gave James a quiet “hi” in response. She wondered if it was strange for him to see Harry Potter in miniature depending on him to stay upright and raised a hand to her mouth to hide her smile.
赫敏看到马尔福咽了口口水，然后他轻声地向詹姆斯打了个招呼作为回应。她想知道他看到哈利波特的缩影是不是很奇怪，只能靠他保持直立，并抬起一只手捂住她的嘴巴以掩饰她的笑容。

“Don’t touch him, James,” Ginny said, stepping forward. “We don’t know where he’s been. Or, actually we do and that’s the problem.”
“别碰他，James，”Ginny说着，向前走了一步。“我们不知道他去了哪里。或者，实际上我们这样做了，这就是问题所在。

Draco’s head shot up, a couple of locks of his hair dislodging to fall across his brow, and he gave Ginny a furious glare. “I’m going, Granger. I don’t need this,” he said, angrily sweeping his hair back again. However, when he tried to move, he found that James was still clinging onto him for support and he couldn’t go anywhere without knocking the boy over. Giving Hermione a pleading look, he said, “ Granger .”
德拉科猛地抬起头，几绺头发散落在他的额头上，他愤怒地瞪了金妮一眼。“我要走了，格兰杰。我不需要这个，“他说，生气地把头发又往后扫。然而，当他试图移动时，他发现詹姆斯仍然紧紧抓住他寻求支撑，他哪儿都走不了，否则就会把男孩撞倒。他恳求地看了赫敏一眼，说：“格兰杰。

Jumping in before Ginny could get to him, Hermione bent over and scooped James into her arms. When she straightened up, she adjusted James onto her hip and laid her free hand onto Malfoy’s arm. “Please stay.”
在金妮走到他身边之前，赫敏跳了进去，弯下腰把詹姆斯抱进了怀里。当她直起身来时，她把詹姆斯调整到她的臀部上，然后把空出来的手放在马尔福的手臂上。“请留下来。”

“Hermione—”
“赫敏——”

“He’s staying, Ginny,” Hermione said with an air of finality that invited no argument. “And you’re going to be polite.” With James happily gurgling on her hip, Hermione looked back and forth between Ginny and Draco, her face severe. “Both of you are. We are going to have a cup of tea together and it’s going to be extremely pleasant . Understand?”
“他留下来了，金妮，”赫敏说，带着一种没有争辩的坚定气息。“而且你要有礼貌。”詹姆斯在她的臀部上快乐地咕噜咕噜地叫着，赫敏在金妮和德拉科之间来回打量，脸色严肃。“你们俩都是。我们将一起喝杯茶，这将是非常愉快的。明白吗？

Without waiting for a response, Hermione turned on her heel and left the living room with James, just about hearing the grumbling acquiescence of Draco and Ginny following behind her. When they got to the kitchen, Hermione turned and pressed James into Ginny’s arms. 
不等他回答，赫敏就转身和詹姆斯一起离开了客厅，正好听到德拉科和金妮在她身后抱怨的默许。当他们到了厨房时，赫敏转身把詹姆斯塞进了金妮的怀里。

“Take a seat, both of you,” Hermione said bossily. “I’ll make the tea.”
“坐下，你们俩，”赫敏专横地说。“我来泡茶。”

With suspicious sidelong looks at one another, Ginny and Draco made their way over to the tiny kitchen table. They slid into their seats, Ginny allowing James to wriggle out of her lap so that he could play with his phoenix on the floor at her feet, while Hermione busied herself in the kitchen. 
金妮和德拉科用怀疑的眼神看着彼此，走向厨房的小桌子。他们滑进了自己的座位，金妮让詹姆斯从她的腿上扭动起来，这样他就可以在她脚边的地板上玩他的凤凰了，而赫敏则在厨房里忙碌。

“Help yourselves,” Hermione said, setting a tin of lemon cake and some plates and forks on the table. 
“自己动手吧，”赫敏说，把一罐柠檬蛋糕和一些盘子和叉子放在桌子上。

“I must say, Granger, this table is a vast improvement on what it was on my last visit,” Draco said, drumming his fingers across the flat surface of it with an approving air. 
“我必须说，格兰杰，这张桌子比我上次来的时候有了很大的进步，”德拉科说，用手指在它平坦的表面上敲打着，带着赞许的语气。

“Not difficult,” scoffed Ginny, lifting a slice of cake from the tin and setting it on a plate. “It was a fire hazard before.”
“不难，”金妮嘲笑道，从罐子里拿出一片蛋糕放在盘子里。“以前是火灾隐患。”

Draco gave her a sharp look as he pulled the tin towards himself to take a slice. “That’s what I said.”
德拉科狠狠地瞪了她一眼，把罐子拉向自己，想吃一片。“我就是这么说的。”

“Yes, well, while I wasn’t sure at first I can accept that moving my things to your library has helped, Malfoy,” Hermione said, glancing up from pouring boiled water into the mugs to give him a smile. 
“是的，好吧，虽然一开始我不确定我能不能接受把我的东西搬到你的图书馆有帮助，马尔福，”赫敏说，从倒入杯子里的开水中抬起头来，对他微笑。

“Pity it means having to spend so much of your time at Malfoy Manor,” Ginny muttered. 
“可惜，这意味着你得在马尔福庄园花这么多时间，”金妮咕哝道。

“Better than The Burrow,” Draco retorted with narrowed eyes. “Can’t imagine there’s even room for a single sheet of parchment in there, never mind a desk. Do you even have quills or do you have to pluck them from the chickens?”
“比陋居好，”德拉科眯起眼睛反驳道。“无法想象里面甚至能放一张羊皮纸，更不用说一张桌子了。你有刺吗，还是必须从鸡身上拔下来？

Hermione sighed and approached the table with a steaming cup of tea in each hand. Both Ginny and Draco glared hard at one another, only stopping with guilty faces when Hermione cleared her throat pointedly, this time directing much of her reproach at Draco. 
赫敏叹了口气，两手各拿着一杯热气腾腾的茶走到桌子前。金妮和德拉科都狠狠地瞪着对方，直到赫敏尖锐地清了清嗓子，才停下了愧疚的表情，这一次她把大部分的责备都指向了德拉科。

“Your favourite mug,” Hermione said, handing it to Draco with a smile when she thought she had got her point across. Twin pink spots appeared high on Draco’s pale cheeks as he took it from her with a murmur of thanks. 
“你最喜欢的杯子，”赫敏说，当她认为自己已经说得明白时，微笑着把它递给德拉科。德拉科苍白的脸颊上高高地出现了两个粉红色的斑点，他从她手中接过它，低声表示感谢。

“He has a favourite mug here?” Ginny asked, the mild disgust in her voice drawing a dark scowl from Draco. 
“他这儿有个最喜欢的杯子吗？”金妮问道，她声音中略带的厌恶让德拉科皱起了眉头。

“It’s the biggest one,” he said, drawing his shoulders back and raising his pointed chin to look down his nose at Ginny.
“这是最大的一个，”他说，把肩膀往后拉，抬起尖尖的下巴，低头看着金妮。

“Of course it is,” Ginny replied, rolling her eyes as she took her own usual Holyhead Harpies-branded mug from Hermione with a fleeting, tense smile of thanks. 
“当然是，”金妮回答道，翻了个白眼，从赫敏手中接过她自己平常的霍利黑德鹰身女妖牌杯子，脸上露出一闪而过的感谢微笑。

Hermione returned to the table with her own tea and slid into her seat, clutching it in her hands. “So,” she said with exaggerated brightness, looking back and forth between the reluctant faces of Ginny and Draco. “How are you both?”
赫敏端着自己的茶回到桌子旁，滑进了她的座位，手里紧紧地攥着它。“所以，”她夸张地说，在金妮和德拉科不情愿的面孔之间来回打量。“你们俩都好吗？”

“Fine,” they muttered together, quite obviously avoiding looking at one another. Draco opted to stare into his tea while Ginny poked her fork sullenly into her cake.
“好吧，”他们一起咕哝着，显然避免看彼此。德拉科选择盯着他的茶，而金妮则闷闷不乐地把叉子戳进她的蛋糕里。

“That doesn’t tell me much, does it?” asked Hermione bracingly. “Some specifics might do the trick.”
“这没什么大不了的，对吧？”“一些细节可能会奏效。”

“Well, I take it you heard about Ron and Hannah?” Ginny asked, shaking her head pityingly as she broke off a piece of cake with her fork.
“嗯，我想你听说过罗恩和汉娜的事吧？”金妮问道，一边用叉子掰开一块蛋糕，一边可怜地摇摇头。

“Lost another one has he?” Draco said, raising an eyebrow. “That’ll be another pointless story fuelling the Prophet’s gossip columns for a month. Weasley is very careless for a man who can’t really afford to lose anything.”
“他又丢了一个，是吗？”德拉科说，扬起了一道眉毛。“这将是另一个毫无意义的故事，让先知的八卦专栏持续一个月。韦斯莱对一个真的不能失去任何东西的人非常粗心。

“That's my brother, Malfoy,” Ginny growled, her grip on her fork fractionally tightening.
“那是我哥哥，马尔福，”金妮咆哮着，她握着叉子的手稍微收紧了。

“Then surely,” Draco said, with an affected shrug, “as his sister, you are immune to the incomprehensible physical charm he seems to have for some witches and are able to see that he's utterly bloody hopeless.”
“那么肯定，”德拉科耸了耸肩说，“作为他的妹妹，你对他似乎对某些女巫所具有的难以理解的身体魅力免疫，并且能够看到他完全没有希望。

Ginny narrowed her eyes at Draco and jabbed her fork back into her cake. “Well, yes, but you're not allowed to say that.”
金妮眯起眼睛看着德拉科，把叉子插回了她的蛋糕里。“嗯，是的，但你不能这么说。”

“I did know,” Hermione finally said, setting her tea down and clutching the mug between her palms. “He came here the night it happened, actually. Quite drunk.”
“我确实知道，”赫敏终于说了，放下茶，用手掌攥着杯子。“实际上，他在事情发生的那天晚上来到这里。 喝得很醉。

“Oh no,” Ginny said, reading Hermione’s flushed cheeks with wide eyes while Draco looked faintly disgusted. “You didn’t, Hermione.” 
“哦，不，”金妮说，睁大眼睛读着赫敏通红的脸颊，而德拉科则显得有些厌恶。“你没有，赫敏。”

“Of course not,” Hermione assured her quickly. “I had – have – no intention of going back down that road.”
“当然不是，”赫敏很快向她保证。“我曾经——曾经——无意回到那条路上。”

Ginny sighed with relief and took a large gulp of tea. “Well, good,” she said, setting her cup down. “Because, honestly, none of us needs to go through that again.”
金妮松了一口气，大口喝了一大口茶。“嗯，很好，”她说，放下了她的杯子。“因为，老实说，我们谁都不需要再经历一次。”

“It wasn’t even a possibility, Ginny,” Hermione said firmly, raising her own cup to her lips. 
“这甚至不可能，金妮，”赫敏坚定地说，把自己的杯子举到嘴边。

When she brought it back down to the table, Hermione found Ginny was watching her keenly, a glint in her eye. “What?” Hermione asked warily, reaching for a plate and pulling the cake tin towards herself. 
当她把它放回桌上时，赫敏发现金妮正热切地看着她，眼中闪过一丝光芒。“什么？”赫敏小心翼翼地问道，伸手拿起一个盘子，把蛋糕罐拉向自己。

“You really meant that, didn’t you?”
“你真的是这个意思，不是吗？”

“Meant what?”
“什么意思？”

“That it wasn’t even a possibility.”
“这甚至不可能。”

“Of course I meant it, Ginny,” Hermione said incredulously, depositing a slice of cake on her plate. “Didn’t you just say that none of us needs to go through that again?”
“我当然是认真的，金妮，”赫敏难以置信地说，把一块蛋糕放在她的盘子里。“你刚才不是说我们谁都不需要再经历一次吗？”

“You have a glow about you, Hermione,” Ginny said, her tone and her smile knowing.
“你身上有光芒，赫敏，”金妮说，她的语气和笑容都知道。

“Ginny,” Hermione said warningly.
“金妮，”赫敏警告地说。

“I thought I noticed it when I arrived but I can definitely see it now,” Ginny pressed. “You seem very…at ease.” She narrowed her eyes searchingly and leaned her head closer to Hermione. “Your shoulders are at least three inches lower than the last time I saw you.”
“我以为我刚到的时候就注意到了，但我现在肯定能看到它了，”金妮追问道。“你看起来非常......轻松自在。她探寻地眯起眼睛，把头靠得更近一些。“你的肩膀比我上次见到你的时候至少低了三英寸。”

Malfoy’s eyes flicked back and forth between Hermione and Ginny as though watching a tennis match, slowly lifting his cup to his lips to blow some of the steam away. 
马尔福的眼睛在赫敏和金妮之间来回扫视，就像在看网球比赛一样，慢慢地把杯子举到嘴边，把一些蒸汽吹走。

“You’re being absurd.” Hermione took an overly large bite of cake, hoping the heat rising in her bulging cheeks wasn’t visible. 
“你太荒谬了。”赫敏咬了一大口蛋糕，希望她鼓鼓的脸颊上升起的热量看不见。

“Is there any chance Ron wasn’t even a possibility because you’re shagging plenty already?”
“有没有可能，罗恩甚至没有可能，因为你已经大吵大闹了？”

The wet, spluttering sound of Malfoy choking on his tea drew Hermione and Ginny’s attention. “Can we not talk about Granger’s sex life please,” he rasped, setting his cup down before pushing his half-finished cake away. “I don’t want to hear it.”
马尔福被他的茶呛到的湿漉漉的、噼啪作响的声音引起了赫敏和金妮的注意。“我们能不能不谈谈格兰杰的性生活，”他嘶哑地说，放下杯子，然后把吃了一半的蛋糕推开。“我不想听。”

“Huh.” Ginny clicked her tongue and gave Malfoy an assessing look across the table as she leaned back in her chair. “Funny.”
“嗯。”金妮咂了咂舌头，在她靠在椅子上时，对着桌子对面的马尔福评估了一眼。“好笑。”

“ What ?” he asked acidly. 
“什么？”

“I always thought you might have had a crush on her.”
“我一直觉得你可能对她有好感。”

Malfoy’s face turned stony while Hermione snapped, “Ginny!”
马尔福的脸色变得坚硬起来，赫敏厉声说，“金妮！

“I’m married, Weasley,” Draco said, his voice cold. “Very happily.”
“我结婚了，韦斯莱，”德拉科说，他的声音很冷。“非常高兴。”

“Well not now ,” Ginny said, waving her hand in the air impatiently. “Just back at Hogwarts. You were very invested in her misery.”
“嗯，现在不行，”金妮说，不耐烦地向空中挥了挥手。“刚回到霍格沃茨。你对她的痛苦投入了很大的精力。

The pink spots returned to Draco’s cheeks, stark against his pale skin, and he shot a guilty look at Hermione before looking down into his mug. “Well, that’s not…that doesn’t…it certainly wasn’t –”
粉红色的斑点回到了德拉科的脸颊上，与他苍白的皮肤形成鲜明对比，他愧疚地看了赫敏一眼，然后低头看向他的杯子。“嗯，那不是......那不是......它肯定不是——”

Draco was saved the trouble of saying anything more by James, who appeared by his knee as though by an act of tension-easing magic, his phoenix held aloft to display it. 
詹姆斯省去了德拉科多说什么的麻烦，詹姆斯出现在他的膝盖上，仿佛通过一种缓解紧张的魔法，他的凤凰高高举起来展示它。

“Hi,” James said again.
“嗨，”詹姆斯又说了一遍。

Draco’s eyes darted nervously between Hermione and Ginny before he looked down at James and cleared his throat. “Hi.”
德拉科的眼睛紧张地在赫敏和金妮之间来回扫视，然后他低头看向詹姆斯，清了清嗓子。“嗨。”

Hermione watched, amused, as James pushed his phoenix into a shocked Draco’s hand and then placed his hands on Draco’s knee, attempting to clamber up into his lap. Alarmed, Draco looked helplessly at Ginny who simply rolled her eyes and held her hands up. “Go on,” she said. “He’ll annoy you until he gets his way.”
赫敏好笑地看着詹姆斯把他的凤凰推到震惊的德拉科的手里，然后把手放在德拉科的膝盖上，试图爬到他的腿上。德拉科惊慌失措地看着金妮，而金妮只是翻了个白眼，举起了双手。“继续说，”她说。“他会惹你生气的，直到他如愿以偿。”

Looking perturbed, Draco set James’ phoenix on the table and then reached down to lift the boy up onto his knee, turning him so that he was facing Hermione and Ginny. Settled in Draco’s lap, James kicked his legs happily and then reached out to grab his phoenix and bounce it against the table making quiet squawking sounds. Draco hurriedly reached out, arm hooked around James’ middle, and moved his hot tea out of reach.
德拉科看起来很不安，把詹姆斯的凤凰放在桌子上，然后伸手把男孩抬到膝盖上，把他转过来，让他面对赫敏和金妮。坐在德拉科的腿上，詹姆斯高兴地踢着他的腿，然后伸手抓住他的凤凰，把它弹到桌子上，发出小声的吱吱声。德拉科急忙伸出手，胳膊勾住詹姆斯的中间，把他的热茶移到够不到的地方。

Ginny gave her son a fond, exasperated look before turning businesslike. “Anyway,” she said, flicking her fingers at them. “I know you two aren’t shagging. I’m just saying, she’s got the glow.”
金妮深情而恼怒地看了儿子一眼，然后变得严肃起来。“总之，”她说，一边朝他们弹了弹手指。“我知道你们俩不是在吵架。我只是说，她有光芒。

Frowning, Draco turned to Hermione and eyed her with a tilted head. “I don’t know how she’d have the time,” he said slowly. “She’s always at the manor.”
德拉科皱着眉头，转向赫敏，歪着头看着她。“我不知道她怎么会有时间，”他慢慢地说。“她总是在庄园里。”

“It’s not a glow,” Hermione said through gritted teeth. “It’s the flush of academic success.”
“这不是光芒，”赫敏咬牙切齿地说。“这是学业成功的冲动。”

“Maybe she’s got a Time Turner again,” Ginny theorised, ignoring Hermione entirely.
“也许她又有了时间转换器，”金妮推测道，完全无视赫敏。

“ Again? ” Draco asked incredulously.
“再来一次？”德拉科难以置信地问道。

“She got one in her third year,” Ginny said, flicking her hair over her shoulder with an air of superiority. “Didn’t you know ?”
“她在第三年就得到了一个，”金妮说，带着优越感把头发甩到肩膀上。“你不知道吗？”

“ No ,” Draco cried, looking at Hermione with bulging eyes. “What the fuck? What for?”
“不，”德拉科喊道，用凸出的眼睛看着赫敏。“他妈的什么？干什么？

“Language,” Hermione chided, with a sharp look down at James. “It was for classes. McGonagall arranged it.”
“语言，”赫敏斥责道，猛地低头看着詹姆斯。“这是为了上课。麦格安排了它。

Draco scoffed, his head tipping back. “Teacher’s pet. Snape would’ve sooner snogged Longbottom than arranged that for me. And he’d known me since birth .”
德拉科嗤之以鼻，他的头向后仰。“老师的宠物。斯内普宁愿早点揍隆巴顿，也不愿为我安排这件事。他从我出生起就认识我。

“Well, what would you have used it for?” Hermione asked.
“嗯，你会用它来做什么？”赫敏问道。

“Dunno,” Draco said thoughtfully, absently lowering his head so that a fascinated James could reach up and touch his hair. ”Quidditch practice. Annoying you lot, maybe?” 
“不知道，”德拉科若有所思地说，心不在焉地低下头，让着迷的詹姆斯可以伸手摸摸他的头发。“魁地奇练习。也许让你很烦恼？

“Lofty goals,” Hermione said dryly.
“崇高的目标，”赫敏干巴巴地说。

“Ow!” Draco cried as James yanked a handful of his hair without warning.
“哎呀！”德拉科喊道，詹姆斯毫无征兆地扯了扯他的一把头发。

“His father's son,” said Ginny, her eyes gleaming with pride. She turned to Hermione with an interrogative air. “And it's definitely not Terry Boot? You didn’t lie about that date just to hide him from me?”
“他爸爸的儿子，”金妮说，她的眼睛里闪耀着骄傲的光芒。她带着质问的语气转向赫敏。“那绝对不是特里·布特吗？你不是为了瞒着我才在那个日期上撒谎吗？

“Absolutely not ,” Hermione said firmly.
“绝对不是，”赫敏坚定地说。

“ Ugh ,” Draco said, finally managing to wrestle his head out of James’ grasp. “Terry Boot? You went out with him? Merlin, Granger, if I’d known you were that desperate I’d have set you up with someone.” 
“呃，”德拉科说，终于设法把头从詹姆斯的手中挣脱出来。“特里·布特？你和他一起出去了？梅林，格兰杰，如果我知道你那么绝望，我早就帮你安排一个人了。

Hermione eyed the sharp angle of Draco’s pulled hair, thinking that it looked like a platinum blonde iceberg. “Yes, but it was an unmitigated failure.”
赫敏盯着德拉科拉扯的头发的尖锐角度，觉得它看起来像一座铂金色的冰山。“是的，但这是一次彻头彻尾的失败。”

Draco laughed sharply through his nose. “Not surprised,” he said, drawing his plate of half-finished cake back over the table so that James could pick at it rather than him. “The Boot family have always been detestable. Utter bores.”
德拉科从鼻子里尖锐地笑了起来。“不惊讶，”他说，把他的一盘半吃完的蛋糕拉回桌子上，这样James就可以挑了，而不是他自己。“布特家族一直很可憎。彻头彻尾的无聊。

“Funny,” Hermione said absently, blowing on her tea. “That's kind of what your father said.”
“好笑，”赫敏心不在焉地说，吹着她的茶。“你爸爸就是这么说的。”

“You talked to my father about Terry Boot?”
“你和我爸爸谈过特里·布特？”

“You talked to his father about Terry Boot?”
“你和他爸爸谈过特里·布特？”

Hermione looked up, eyes wide and travelling between Ginny and Draco who had spoken simultaneously. “Ages ago,” she said quickly. “Just in passing .”
赫敏抬起头，睁大了眼睛，在金妮和德拉科之间穿梭，他们同时说话了。“很久以前了，”她迅速地说。“顺便说一句。”

“In passing what ?” Ginny asked. “All sense of normality?”
“顺便说一句，什么？”金妮问道。“一切都很正常吗？”

“I just—” Hermione sighed, internally cursing herself as she set her tea down without drinking it. “He knew I was going on a date and he asked me how it went so I told him and he said that Boot’s grandfather was a bore.”
“我只是——”赫敏叹了口气，在心里咒骂着自己，她把茶放下了，没有喝下去。“他知道我要去约会，他问我进展如何，所以我告诉了他，他说 Boot 的祖父是个无聊的人。”

Draco stared at her, befuddled. Ginny said wonderingly, “Like, to comfort you? That’s almost… nice .”
德拉科盯着她，困惑不解。金妮好奇地说，“比如，为了安慰你？那差不多......很好。

“It's basically what I said,” Draco said. “You didn’t give me any praise.”
“基本上就是我说的，”德拉科说。“你没有表扬我。”

Ginny shrugged. “Coming from your father it holds more weight.”
金妮耸耸肩。“来自你父亲的这更有分量。”

“Why?”
“为什么？”

“Because he's never nice.”
“因为他从来都不是好人。”

Draco mumbled something about how his father was sometimes nice before turning to Hermione appealingly. “You’ve seen him be nice, Granger, haven’t you? You’ve been getting on with him; he basically told me that was the case and I saw it myself at dinner.
德拉科喃喃自语了一句他爸爸有时是多么友善，然后诱人地转向赫敏。“你见过他很好，格兰杰，不是吗？你跟他相处得很融洽;他基本上告诉我是这样的，我自己在晚餐时也看到了。

Ginny stared back and forth between them. “At dinn – Hermione, I know Harry and I have been busy with the kids but if you’re trying to replace us with the Malfoys, you really need to get your head checked.”
金妮在他们之间来回盯着。“在丁恩——赫敏，我知道哈利和我一直在忙着照顾孩子们，但如果你想用马尔福一家来取代我们，你真的需要检查一下你的头脑。”

“What, because you and Potter are such better company than us?”
“什么，因为你和波特比我们好得多？”

“Yes, actually, I think you’ll find –”
“是的，实际上，我想你会发现——”

“I would like to point out,” Hermione interrupted, “that he did follow up what he said about Boot’s family with a suggestion that I must somehow be worse since the date didn’t go well.”
“我想指出，”赫敏打断了他，“他确实跟进了他对布特家人的评价，暗示我一定是以某种方式变得更糟，因为约会并不顺利。

“Oh, well, that’s on the familiar side of prickishness,” Ginny said approvingly, raising an ‘I told you so’ eyebrow at Draco. “The world has been put to rights.”
“哦，好吧，这就是熟悉的刺痛的一面，”金妮赞同地说，对德拉科扬起了“我早就告诉过你了”的眉毛。“世界已经被纠正了。”

“ But. Yes, Ginny.” Hermione nodded to Draco and then fixed Ginny with a serious expression. “Lucius and I have been getting along much better and he is , in fact, capable of being nice. In his own way, admittedly.”
“但是。是的，金妮。赫敏向德拉科点了点头，然后用严肃的表情盯着金妮。“我和卢修斯相处得好多了，事实上，他有能力表现得好。诚然，以他自己的方式。

Draco’s furrowed forehead cleared and he tried to direct a superior sneer at Ginny but found she was too busy miming being sick into her cup to notice it. 
德拉科皱起的额头上露出了清朗的表情，他试图对金妮冷笑一声，但发现她正忙着在杯子里装病，没有注意到。

“ Lucius ?” she asked, her head rising in line with the pitch of her voice. “Hermione, what – you can’t be serious. When Harry told me you were going to speak up for him and not just leave it to Kingsley, I thought it was because it was just you being you . Keeping your word. Not because you actually meant it.”
“卢修斯？” 她问道，她的头随着她声音的音调而抬起。“赫敏，什么——你不能当真。当哈利告诉我，你要为他发声，而不仅仅是交给金斯利时，我想那是因为你就是你自己。信守诺言。不是因为你真的是认真的。

“I do mean it, Ginny. I’m sorry, I thought Harry would have –”
“我是认真的，金妮。对不起，我以为哈利会——”

Ginny flattened the underside of her forearms against the table, lifting her hands in a ‘stop’ motion with her fingers spread. “So, what,” she said, her lip curling, “he’s suddenly writing his feelings into diaries instead of slipping them into the cauldrons of young girls? Is that what you’re telling me?”
金妮将前臂的下侧压在桌子上，抬起双手，张开手指，做出“停止”的动作。“所以，什么，”她说，她的嘴唇弯起，“他突然把他的感情写进日记里，而不是把它们塞进年轻女孩的大锅里？你是这么告诉我的吗？

“Ginny –” Hermione began softly, reaching out a hand. Ginny jerked away from her, looking slightly guilty as she did so, as though it had been out of a self-preserving instinct rather than a conscious desire to avoid Hermione.
“金妮——”赫敏轻声开口，伸出一只手。金妮猛地从她身边抽身，看起来有点内疚，仿佛这是出于一种自我保护的本能，而不是有意识地避开赫敏。

“If you’re waiting for some grand display of contrition for that Weasley,” Draco said, his tone hard, “I feel I should tell you that he’s only just properly apologised to me .”
“如果你在等待对那个韦斯莱的隆重忏悔，”德拉科说，他的语气很严厉，“我觉得我应该告诉你，他只是刚刚向我道歉了。

There was a beat in which Ginny looked almost surprised and in the silence, lips parted, Hermione turned her eyes to Draco to find he was already looking back at her. There was a significance in his gaze which told her that apology was what he had come to talk to her about in the first place.  
有一瞬间，金妮看起来几乎是惊讶的，在一片寂静中，嘴唇张开，赫敏把眼睛转向德拉科，发现他已经回头看着她了。他的目光中有一种意味深长，告诉她道歉是他最初来和她谈的。

“And what about you?” Ginny demanded, bringing Hermione’s attention back to her. “Has he apologised to you?”
“那你呢？”金妮问道，把赫敏的注意力拉回到了她身上。“他跟你道歉了吗？”

Tucking her hair behind her ear, Hermione glanced at a keenly interested Draco and then fixed her eyes on Ginny. “Yes, he has.”
赫敏把头发掖到耳后，瞥了一眼非常感兴趣的德拉科，然后又把目光盯上了金妮。“是的，他有。”

Ginny’s fingers curled so that they were poised in an arch against the table and she drummed them once. “He has.” Her tone was flat, disbelieving. 
金妮的手指蜷曲起来，靠在桌子上呈拱形，她敲了一下。“他有。”她的语气平淡，难以置信。

“He has , Ginny.”
“他有，金妮。”

“The word ‘sorry’,” Ginny continued in the same flat tone, flattening her hands down onto the table with a gentle thump . “Came out of his actual mouth. The actual mouth in his actual face.”
“对不起'这个词，”金妮用同样平淡的语气继续说，轻轻地砰地一声，将双手压在桌子上。“从他真正的嘴里说出来。他真实面孔上的真实嘴巴。

“Yes.”
“是的。”

“It wasn’t sarcastic? Or a lie, like so much of what he says?”
“这不是讽刺吗？还是一个谎言，就像他说的那么多话一样？

Lifting a shoulder, Hermione tilted her head and cringed. “I think I’d say it was more reluctant than sarcastic. But I believe it was sincere.” She looked at Draco, then, and found him watching her, practically studying her. “He was sincere.”
赫敏抬起肩膀，歪着头，畏缩起来。“我想我会说这与其说是讽刺，不如说是不情愿。但我相信这是真诚的。然后她看向德拉科，发现他看着她，几乎是在研究她。“他很真诚。”

Ginny scoffed and dropped back in her seat, her arms crossed. Glancing back and forth between Draco and Hermione, her face took on the expression of someone rolling something especially sour across their tongue. 
金妮嗤之以鼻，双臂交叉，坐回座位上。在德拉科和赫敏之间来回扫视，她的脸上呈现出有人在他们的舌头上滚动特别酸的东西的表情。

“Can you blame me?” she finally snapped. “Can you actually blame me for being doubtful? Or angry? That year was – That year – in my head – ” Ginny’s voice shook and she uncrossed her arms to fiercely rub the back of her fist across her freckled cheeks, as though warning her eyes that they could stay dry or face violence. “He owes me a year of my life. That’s not a debt you can just pay out of the family vault, Malfoy, no matter how full of gold it is.”
“你能怪我吗？”“你真的可以责怪我怀疑吗？还是生气？那一年是——那一年——在我的脑海中——“金妮的声音颤抖着，她松开双臂，用拳头狠狠地擦过她满是雀斑的脸颊，仿佛在警告她的眼睛，它们可能会保持干燥，否则就会面临暴力。他欠我一年的生命。那可不是你就能从家族金库里拿出来还的债，马尔福，不管里面有多么满满的金子。

Draco’s face was always pale but Hermione thought it looked even paler as he assessed Ginny across the table. Glancing down at James, still content in his lap, Draco cleared his throat. “We can’t, you’re right. I’m sorry, Weasley. I am.” Ginny visibly stiffened, her back straightening as Draco met her eyes. “A year of… him in your house is bad enough. A year in your head, I struggle to imagine.”
德拉科的脸总是苍白的，但赫敏觉得当他打量着桌子对面的金妮时，脸色更加苍白了。德拉科低头看了一眼仍然满足地坐在他腿上的詹姆斯，清了清嗓子。“我们不能，你说得对。对不起，韦斯莱。我是。金妮明显地僵硬了起来，当德拉科与她的眼睛对上时，她的背挺直了。“一年...... 他在你家里已经够坏的了。在你的脑海中，我很难想象一年。

Hermione hardly dared breathe in the silence that fell and seeped over the seconds into minutes, pushing her back against her chair as though she might be able to sink through it and disappear. When she’d asked them both to stay for tea, she hadn’t expected it to be quite so confrontational. Even in the silence, they hadn’t broken eye contact. 
赫敏几乎不敢在寂静中呼吸，寂静从几秒变成了几分钟，她把她的背靠在椅子上，仿佛她可能会从椅子上沉下去，消失不见。当她邀请他们俩留下来喝茶时，她没想到会如此对抗。即使在寂静中，他们也没有中断眼神交流。

Lowering her hands and her eyes into her lap, Ginny finally made a small noise in the back of her throat and brushed down her long dress, straightening out the creases. “I suppose I got the pretty version,” she eventually said, flicking her hair over her shoulder. “If we’re looking for small mercies.”
金妮垂下双手，眼睛盯着她的膝盖，终于在她的喉咙后部发出了一个小小的声音，然后拂过她的长裙，理顺了折痕。“我想我得到了漂亮的版本，”她最终说，把头发甩到肩膀上。“如果我们在寻找小小的怜悯。”

Draco’s shoulders dropped as he let go of a breath and Hermione exhaled a single faint laugh. Ginny smiled, though it was closer to a pained grimace, and she gave Hermione a sidelong look that told her this small surrender was for her and no one else. 
德拉科的肩膀垂下来，他松了一口气，赫敏发出一声淡淡的笑声。金妮笑了，虽然更像是一个痛苦的鬼脸，她斜头看了赫敏一眼，告诉她这个小小的投降是为了她自己，而不是其他人。

“And I’ll have to wait for my apology from your father, will I?” Ginny asked Draco, eyes flicking to him. “I’m sure he has plenty of people to get around.”
“我得等你爸爸道歉，对吧？”金妮问德拉科，眼睛眨着他。“我敢肯定他有很多人可以四处走动。”

Draco tilted his head and lifted his shoulders which Ginny seemed to take for a yes. James bashed the tail of his phoenix toy excitedly against the table, just catching Draco’s hand. With a small ‘oh’, James then lay the toy’s head down softly against where he had made contact with Draco, as though soothing him.
德拉科歪着头，抬起肩膀，金妮似乎把这当作是肯定的。詹姆斯兴奋地把他的凤凰玩具的尾巴砸在桌子上，刚好抓住了德拉科的手。詹姆斯轻轻地“哦”了一声，然后把玩具的头轻轻地靠在他和德拉科接触的地方，仿佛在安抚他。

“How’s Potter?” Draco asked, turning his eyes up from James to Ginny, who appeared fixated on what her son was doing with the phoenix. 
“波特怎么样？”德拉科问道，把目光从詹姆斯转向金妮，金妮似乎正专注于她儿子对凤凰做什么。

“He’s…he’s fine. Thank you.” Her eyes darted up to Draco’s. “He’s with Albus today. And your…” Ginny shook her head, as though forcing the next word to come loose. “Wife?”
“他......他没事。谢谢你。她的眼睛瞪向德拉科的眼睛。“他今天和阿不思在一起。而你的......”金妮摇了摇头，仿佛在强迫下一个词松动。“老婆？”

“Astoria,” he proffered graciously.
“阿斯托利亚，”他亲切地提议。

“Astoria,” Ginny said, her tone experimental, like she was tasting the name for the first time and wasn’t sure if she’d like it.
“阿斯托利亚，”金妮说，她的语气带着实验性，就像她第一次品尝这个名字，不确定自己是否喜欢它。

“She’s well enough,” Draco said. “Very pregnant. Very keen to impress on me that our children will be attending Hogwarts together.”
“她已经很好了，”德拉科说。“非常怀孕。我非常想让我印象深刻，我们的孩子会一起在霍格沃茨上学。

Ginny’s eyes travelled back to James who had started pecking his phoenix toy into Draco’s cake, pretending it was eating. Hermione thought she saw something in Ginny soften ever so slightly.
金妮的目光又回到了詹姆斯身上，詹姆斯开始把他的凤凰玩具啄进德拉科的蛋糕里，假装它在吃东西。赫敏觉得她在金妮身上看到了什么，稍微软化了一点。

“Not for a while,” she finally said. “Gives us some time, I suppose.”
“暂时没有，”她终于说。“我想，给我们一些时间。”

Draco huffed out a laugh, his shoulders jumping once. “That it does.”
德拉科哼哼大笑，他的肩膀跳了一下。“确实如此。”

Chapter 30
第三十章Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾July 31st
7月31日

Hermione Granger was angry. Hermione Granger was furious. Hermione Granger was barging into Lucius Malfoy’s study with a letter clutched so tightly in her fist that the ink on the parchment was in danger of tattooing her skin. 
赫敏·格兰杰很生气。赫敏·格兰杰大发雷霆。赫敏·格兰杰闯进卢修斯·马尔福的书房，拳头里紧紧地攥着一封信，羊皮纸上的墨水有纹身的危险。

“Ridiculous!” she spat from the wide open doorway. 
“荒谬！” 她从敞开的门口吐了一口唾沫。

With the delicate care of a man who had just been told it was rigged to blow, Lucius set the quill he had been using back in its well in his desk and, clasping his hands together, looked up at Hermione with a patient, expectant expression. 
在一个刚刚被告知它纵起来会爆炸的男人的细心照顾下，卢修斯将他一直在使用的羽毛笔放回办公桌的井中，双手紧握，抬头看着赫敏，露出耐心、期待的表情。

“Aren’t you going to ask me what’s ridiculous?” she said after a beat of silence.
“你不打算问我什么荒谬吗？”

“You are going to tell me whether I ask or not, Hermione. I thought it foolish to risk an interruption when you’re so…” He pushed his lower lip out, his eyes running down her tense stance. “Piqued.”
“你得告诉我我问不问，赫敏。我觉得冒着被打扰的风险是愚蠢的，因为你是......”他把下唇往外推，眼睛顺着她紧张的姿势扫过。“生气了。”

Hermione chewed the inside of her cheek, her eyes narrowing, and entered Lucius’ study properly, closing the door behind her with what he felt was a touch more force than entirely necessary. 
赫敏咬了咬她的脸颊内侧，眯起了眼睛，然后正确地走进了卢修斯的书房，用他觉得比完全必要的力气更强的触碰关上了她身后的门。

“This,” she said, raising the letter in her clenched fist, “is another rejection.”
“这个，”她说，用紧握的拳头举起那封信，“又一次被拒绝。

Ah . Lucius nodded. The rejections. This must have been her fourth? No, fifth. He was beginning to see that Hermione Granger did not take non-constructive criticism especially well. The last rejection had come the day before and it had ended up taking most of his stamina and a lot of faith in the structural integrity of his study sofa to distract her and ease her frustration. He wasn’t sure he had the energy on this particular afternoon for a repeat performance and he rather suspected she was too angry for it to work anyway.
啊。卢修斯点点头。拒绝。这一定是她的第四次吧？不，第五。他开始看到赫敏·格兰杰并没有特别好地接受非建设性的批评。最后一次被拒绝是在前一天，结果他花了大部分的耐力和对书房沙发结构完整性的很大信心来分散她的注意力，缓解她的挫败感。他不确定自己在这个特别的下午是否有精力再演一遍，他宁愿怀疑她太生气了，无论如何都不起作用。

“And do you know what it says? Do you know what it has the cheek to say?”
“你知道它说什么吗？你知道它有什么厚脸皮要说的吗？

Lucius raised his eyebrows and blinked away the pleasant memory of Hermione bent over his sofa, dress rucked up around her waist and knickers around her spread knees. “I can use my imagination,” he said. “The word ‘rejection’ is fairly self-explanatory, Hermione, and there hasn’t been a great deal of variation in the letters.”
卢修斯扬起眉毛，眨了眨眼，赫敏弯下腰，裙子围在腰间，短裤围在她张开的膝盖上。“我可以发挥我的想象力，”他说。“'拒绝'这个词是不言自明的，赫敏，而且信件中没有太大的变化。”

“No, this one is different.”
“不，这个不一样。”

Lucius leaned back in his chair, waving an imperious hand that invited her to continue. “It says that they won’t publish my book because…” Some of her rage dimmed as she met his eyes and she lowered the hand wielding the parchment, keeping her fist clenched tight. “Because you’re included.”
卢修斯靠在椅子上，挥舞着一只专横的手，邀请她继续说下去。“它说他们不会出版我的书，因为......”当她与他的眼睛相遇时，她的愤怒消退了一些，她放下了挥舞着羊皮纸的手，紧紧握着拳头。“因为你被包括在内。”

A tight smile spread across Lucius’ face. So one of them had finally said it. “What’s their view on Draco?” he asked.
卢修斯的脸上绽放出紧绷的笑容。所以他们中的一个人终于说了出来。“他们对德拉科有什么看法？”

“They don’t seem to have as much of an issue with him," she said, glancing down at the letter. "At least, he’s not mentioned.”
“他们似乎对他没有那么大的问题，”她说，低头看了一眼那封信。“至少，他没有被提及。”

Lucius nodded, satisfied. “Well, then, you know what you have to do then, don’t you?” he said lightly, sitting forward again to lift his quill back out of its well. “Remove me.” 
卢修斯满意地点点头。“那么，你知道你该怎么做，不是吗？”他淡淡地说，又坐了起来，把羽毛笔从井里拿了出来。“把我移开。”

The rejection letter slammed down on his desk under Hermione’s palm. Lucius looked at it from under his brow and slowly lifted his eyes up her tense arm, over the grim set of her jaw and up to her furiously gleaming eyes. “I will not,” she said. 
拒绝信砰地一声砸在赫敏的手掌下的桌子上。卢修斯从他的眉毛下看着它，慢慢地将目光从她紧绷的手臂上抬起，越过她那冷酷的下巴，再抬起眼睛。“我不会的，”她说。

“Then you won’t be published,” he said simply. “By this particular publishing house, at any rate.” Raising his chin to look at the parchment he saw the Bewitched Bindings letterhead between her spread fingers. “Probably better off. Their director is a tasteless moron. And quite tactless, apparently.”
“那你就不会被发表了，”他简单地说。“无论如何，都是由这家出版社写的。”他抬起下巴看向羊皮纸，看到了她张开的手指之间的 Bewitched Bindings 信笺。“可能会更好。他们的导演是个无味的白痴。而且显然很不机智。

Hermione’s other hand came to rest on his desk and she leaned towards him. “Why aren’t you more annoyed?” she asked, her head tilting and eyes squinting as she looked at him, like she was trying to read a sign from a long distance. “Don’t you think it’s ridiculous?”
赫敏的另一只手放在他的桌子上，她向他靠了靠。“你为什么不更生气呢？”她问道，她歪着头，眯着眼睛看着他，就像她正试图从远处看出一个标志。“你不觉得这很荒谬吗？”

With a soft sigh, Lucius placed the quill back in its well. His letter to the estate manager could wait because his witch could not. “I think,” he began carefully, “that it’s not particularly surprising, actually. And I don’t say that to disparage your surprise. I say it to balance your righteousness with some realism.”
卢修斯轻轻叹了口气，将羽毛笔放回了井中。他写给庄园经理的信可以等一会儿，因为他的女巫不能。“我想，”他小心翼翼地开始说，“其实这并不特别令人惊讶。我这么说并不是为了贬低你的惊讶。我说这句话是为了平衡你的正义和一些现实主义。

Lucius watched one of Hermione’s eyebrows lift and she pushed her hands from his desk to straighten up and look down at him, leaving the letter crumpled between them. 
卢修斯看着赫敏的一根眉毛扬起，她把手从他的桌子上推开，直起身来，低头看着他，让信皱成一团。

“But they haven’t even read what you said,” she insisted, her hands coming to rest on her hips. “They don’t even know and they’re just dismissing it out of hand.”
“但他们甚至没有读你说的话，”她坚持说，她的手放在臀部上。“他们甚至不知道，他们只是一发不可收拾地不屑一顾。”

He gave her a searching look. It was, admittedly, quite nice to have someone be so outraged on his behalf but really her naivety was astounding. 
他探寻地看了她一眼。诚然，有人为他如此愤怒是件好事，但实际上她的天真令人震惊。

“That’s their prerogative,” he said, shaking his head. “They are a business, Hermione. They must make money. Clearly they think that my involvement in your book might be bad for sales.” 
“那是他们的特权，”他摇着头说。“他们是一门生意，赫敏。他们必须赚钱。显然，他们认为我参与你的书可能对销售不利。

Hermione scoffed, muttering ‘business’ under her breath like it was a filthy word. Lucius continued, raising his voice slightly to bring her attention back to him, “If you won’t remove my contribution then I will withdraw it myself. I will not have you work for years to let your own stubbornness trip you up at the last hurdle.”
赫敏嗤之以鼻，低声喃喃自语着“正事”，仿佛这是一个肮脏的词。卢修斯继续说道，稍微提高了声音，让她的注意力重新回到他身上，“如果你不取消我的贡献，那我就自己撤回它。我不会让你工作多年，让你自己的固执在最后一道障碍上绊倒你。

“You can’t .”
“你不能。”

"I think you’ll find I can." 
“我想你会发现我可以。”

“But the Wizengamot hasn’t made its decision on your case,” she said, visibly distressed. “I told them how you were helping me; I used that as an argument that your actions reflect the way you’ve changed but they’ll want to see that you’ve helped me. They won’t just take our word for it, Lucius — they’ll want to see it published. I won’t let you withdraw your contribution. It’ll make it look like you’ve changed your mind and they won’t like that.”
“但威森加摩还没有对你的案子做出决定，”她说，显然很痛苦。“我告诉他们你是怎么帮助我的;我用这个论点说，你的行为反映了你改变的方式，但他们会想看到你帮助了我。他们不会只相信我们的话，Lucius——他们会希望看到它出版。我不会让你撤回你的贡献。这会让人觉得你改变了主意，他们不会喜欢的。

“Then don’t force my hand and just remove it yourself. If you don’t, the book won’t be published at all and the Wizengamot still won’t be satisfied. Where does that leave us? It leaves neither of us getting what we want. The worst of all options.”
“那就别勉强我的手，自己把它拿开就好了。如果你不这样做，这本书根本不会出版，威森加摩仍然不会满意。这给我们留下了什么？它让我们都没有得到我们想要的东西。这是所有选择中最糟糕的。

He knew she could see his point because she appeared to deflate slightly, her hands sliding from her hips as her gaze dropped to the letter. “What was the point in the past few months if I just drop you?” she asked quietly. “What have we been doing here if I don’t even try?”
他知道她能看出他的意思，因为她似乎略微泄气，当她的目光落在那封信上时，她的手从臀部滑落。“如果我就这样放弃你，过去几个月有什么意义呢？”“如果我连尝试都不尝试，我们在这里做什么？”

“I’d say these past months haven’t been entirely without point, Hermione.” 
“我想说，过去的几个月并非完全没有意义，赫敏。”

Looking up quickly, she shook her head, stricken. “I didn’t – I didn’t mean it like that. I just meant –”
她迅速抬起头，摇了摇头，受到了打击。“我没有——我不是那个意思。我只是想——”

“I know what you meant,” he assured her soothingly. ‘Hermione, you have dozens of interviews. Why is mine so essential?”
“我知道你的意思，”他安抚地向她保证。“赫敏，你有几十次采访。为什么我的这么重要？

A pained look passed over her face. “You were on Voldemort’s side. I’ve told you. I want the overarching view.”
她的脸上掠过痛苦的神情。“你站在伏地魔这边。我已经告诉过你了。我想要总体视图。

“But you have Draco.”
“但你有Draco。”

She shook her head. “You’re not interchangeable, Lucius, and you know it.”
她摇了摇头。“你是不可互换的，卢修斯，你知道的。”

“What can people possibly learn from my perspective, then, that they haven’t from his?”
“那么，人们能从我的角度学到什么，而他们没有从他的角度学到什么呢？”

Hermione appeared to deliberate her next words, her eyes rolling up to look at the ceiling as she wrung her hands. “Look,” she said slowly, making Lucius’ eyebrow rise with interest. She wasn’t usually so…inhibited. “I just think people shouldn’t be allowed to just lock you up and forget about you.” 
赫敏似乎在考虑接下来的话，她一边拧着手，一边翻着眼睛看着天花板。“你看，”她缓缓地说，让卢修斯的眉毛饶有兴趣地扬起。她通常不是那么......抑制。“我只是认为不应该让人们把你关起来，忘记你。”

“I see,” Lucius said lightly, though he did not see at all. It wasn’t that he necessarily disagreed, it was more that he didn’t especially understand why she would feel that way. 
“我明白了，”卢修斯淡淡地说，尽管他根本没有看到。并不是他一定不同意，而是他不是特别明白她为什么会有这种感觉。

Huffing out a sigh, Hermione leaned her hands on his desk and fixed him with an aggressively apologetic expression. “I just – it’s that after the first war, they believed your lie about the Imperius curse because you know how to behave and you have money and you look –” she lifted a hand to briefly run it up and down his form by way of an exasperated explanation and Lucius’ eyebrows fractionally twitched even higher. 
赫敏叹了口气，双手靠在他的桌子上，用咄咄逼人的歉意表情注视着他。“我只是——就是在第一次战争之后，他们相信了你关于冥王诅咒的谎言，因为你知道如何行事，你有钱，你看——”她抬起一只手，用恼怒的解释在他的身体上短暂地上下滑动，卢修斯的眉毛微微抽搐得更高了。

“It was easier for them to believe that a man in high standing like yourself hadn’t consciously, voluntarily thrown in his lot with Voldemort. It was easier because if they’d had the courage to face the truth, they’d also have had to contend with the fact that this wasn’t just one big bad wizard and a band of deluded violent followers; they’d have had to acknowledge the institutional, social rot in the wizarding world that makes some people believe they’re better than others because of an accident of birth.”
“他们更容易相信，像你这样地位高昂的人，并不是有意识地、自愿地投靠伏地魔的命运。这更容易，因为如果他们有勇气面对真相，他们也必须面对这样一个事实：这不仅仅是一个大坏巫师和一群受骗的暴力追随者;他们不得不承认魔法世界的制度性和社会腐败，这种腐朽让一些人因为出生的意外而认为他们比其他人更好。

“Hermione –”
“赫敏——”

“People like Bellatrix and even Crouch’s son were painted as violent fanatics for Voldemort. Beyond reach. But you. ” Hermione exhaled and shook her head, her curls bouncing. “With your wealth and your influence, you and others like you just slipped through. You said it yourself: you’re pragmatic. In the second war it was that pragmatism that saw you go back to him. And your reticence wasn’t because you’d seen any kind of significant error in your ways.”
“像贝拉特里克斯甚至克劳奇的儿子这样的人都被描绘成伏地魔的暴力狂热分子。遥不可及。但是你。 “赫敏呼出一口气，摇了摇头，她的卷发弹跳着。”凭借你的财富和影响力，你和其他像你一样的人就这样溜走了。你自己说过：你很务实。在第二次战争中，正是这种实用主义让你回到了他身边。而你的沉默并不是因为你看到了任何重大错误。

Lucius remained silent this time, his jaw tight shut and his tongue pressed to the roof of his mouth as he watched her grow more distressed. He had somehow forgotten, in gaining so much from them, that their interviews weren’t for him. They were for her and she had aims that pre-dated their closeness. 
这一次卢修斯保持沉默，他的下巴紧闭着，舌头贴在嘴巴上颚，看着她变得更加痛苦。他不知怎么的忘记了，虽然从他们那里得到了这么多，但他们的采访并不适合他。他们是为了她，她的目标早于他们的亲密。

“And now that they’ve figured you out, they’ve just locked you up and I bet they over time they lump you in with the rest of them. They’ll say ‘ah, we saw through him in the end’.” She laughed mirthlessly and pushed herself off the desk, throwing a hand out. “But they didn’t! Not really; you just made it impossible for them not to see. They’ll forget everything that went before and never learn the lesson from it. Well, I won’t let them.”
“现在他们已经弄清楚了你，他们就把你关起来了，我敢打赌，随着时间的推移，他们会把你和其他人混在一起。他们会说'啊，我们最终看穿了他'。她无情地笑了起来，把自己从桌子上推开，伸出一只手。“但他们没有！没有;你只是让他们不可能看不到。他们会忘记之前的一切，永远不会从中吸取教训。好吧，我不会让他们的。

She took a deep breath, her eyes gleaming. “And I know you’re different now, Lucius. I know it. But you… you’re proof that evil and cruelty aren't just found in mad wizards who want to live forever and rule the world. Sometimes cruelty and evil worm their way into seemingly respectable, otherwise intelligent people who are too apathetic to question what they've been told and too selfish to see beyond how things affect just them.”
她深吸一口气，眼睛闪闪发光。“我知道你现在不一样了，Lucius。我知道。但是你。。。你证明了邪恶和残忍不仅仅存在于想要长生不老并统治世界的疯狂巫师身上。有时，残忍和邪恶会蠕动到看似受人尊敬、本来聪明的人身上，他们太冷漠了，不敢质疑他们被告知的事情，也太自私了，不敢看到事情如何影响他们自己。

“That’s quite enough, Hermione,” Lucius said, his voice sharp. “Thank you. Your point has been sufficiently pressed.”
“够了，赫敏，”卢修斯说，他的声音很尖锐。“谢谢你。你的观点已经被充分地抓住了。

“I know that’s not all you are.”
“我知道那不是你的全部。”

“I’m so very glad.” Lucius could not help the sarcasm that crept in.
“我非常高兴。”卢修斯忍不住悄悄溜进来的讽刺。

“I know you feel differently now.” 
“我知道你现在的感觉不一样了。”

“I do.” 
“我愿意。”

“And that’s important for people to know too! I’ll make sure they know it. But our problems didn’t just disappear with Voldemort and what you’ve told me about you, your father, that circle , shows that they didn’t just start with him either.”  
“人们知道这一点也很重要！我会确保他们知道。但是我们的问题并没有随着伏地魔而消失，你告诉我的关于你、你父亲、那个圈子的事情表明，这些问题也不只是从他开始的。

Tapping his fingers once, twice on his desk, Lucius inspected her earnest face. “The wizarding world doesn’t want to hear that right now, Hermione.”
卢修斯用手指敲了一下，在他的桌子上敲了两下，打量着她认真的脸。“魔法世界现在不想听这些，赫敏。”

Lucius uncrossed his legs to lean forward and pushed himself to his feet, his fingertips coming to barely lean on his desk. Having her speak all those words down to him had had an aggravating effect and he rather felt that standing to face her was the only solution. 
卢修斯松开双腿，身体前倾，站起来，指尖勉强靠在桌子上。让她对他说所有这些话已经产生了加重的效果，他宁愿觉得站着面对她是唯一的解决办法。

“It wants to hear that everything is fine. That everything is better. You need to accept that not everyone is like you – not everyone wants to reflect and not everyone wants to hear from me. In fact, you must be aware that most people will see my name and put your book straight back on the shelf.”
“它想听到一切都很好。一切都变得更好了。你需要接受不是每个人都像你一样的事实——不是每个人都想反思，也不是每个人都想听我说话。事实上，你必须意识到，大多数人会看到我的名字，然后直接把你的书放回书架上。

“You should give people more credit, Lucius.”
“你应该给人们更多的荣誉，卢修斯。”

“You give them more than enough for both of us, I think,” he replied, eyebrows rising admonishingly as he slipped his hands into his pockets, his shoulders drawing back. 
“我想，你给他们俩的钱已经绰绰有余了，”他回答道，双手口袋，肩膀向后缩，眉毛告诫地扬起。

Her nostrils flared, her lips pressing thin. “I think someone will publish me,” she said firmly. “ With your contribution. I just have to push.”
她的鼻孔张开，嘴唇紧紧地抿着。“我想有人会把我公布出来，”她坚定地说。“凭借您的贡献。我只需要推动。

Eyes flicking briefly upwards, like he had spied his patience evaporating, Lucius exhaled sharply. “And I think you are setting yourself up for disappointment. Your work will still be an achievement without me in it. It will still have an impact.”
卢修斯的眼睛短暂地向上眨了眨，就像他发现自己的耐心正在蒸发一样，卢修斯猛地呼出一口气。“而且我认为你正在让自己失望。没有我的参与，你的工作仍然是一项成就。它仍然会产生影响。

“It won't be what I want,” she said, her tone sharpening. 
“这不会是我想要的，”她说，语气变得尖锐起来。

“You're being a stubborn fool,” Lucius said, unable to keep the sharpness from his own voice. “Either you want to be published or you don't. If it's the former, then you should do whatever is necessary to make it happen. If it's the latter…well, by all means continue what you’re doing.”
“你是个顽固的傻瓜，”卢修斯说，无法抑制自己声音的尖锐。“要么你想被发布，要么你不想。如果是前者，那么您应该采取一切必要措施来实现它。如果是后者......好吧，一定要继续你正在做的事情。

“Well, what about you?” Hermione demanded, jabbing an aggressive hand towards him across the desk that felt like an increasing gulf between them. “Do you ever want to leave this manor or not? Do you want your magic back or not? It feels like you don’t. It feels like you don’t even want to try.”
“嗯，那你呢？”赫敏质问道，一只咄咄逼人的手隔着桌子戳向他，感觉他们之间的鸿沟越来越大。“你有没有想离开这个庄园？你想要不要拿回你的魔法？感觉你没有。感觉你甚至都不想尝试。

How had he forgotten how irritating she could be? “Do you really want your cautionary tale walking free?” he asked, his lip curling. “What kind of message does that send?”
他怎么忘记了她有多么令人恼火呢？“你真的想让你的警世故事自由行走吗？”“这传达了什么样的信息？”

“Lucius, don’t,” Hermione said firmly. “You know I’ve advocated for you. You’ve helped me like you promised and I think if we just pushed the publishers –”
“卢修斯，别这样，”赫敏坚定地说。“你知道我一直在为你辩护。你像你承诺的那样帮助了我，我想如果我们只是推动出版商——”

“You tried, Hermione,” he interrupted shortly, “but it hasn’t worked. You will be published without my contribution or not at all and the former is clearly the better option. I can tell you right now, I am not the kind of wizard who is going to facilitate any of your absurd plots of noble self-sacrifice for some wizarding world greater good –"
“你试过了，赫敏，”他很快打断了他，“但没用。你将在没有我的贡献的情况下被发布，或者根本没有，前者显然是更好的选择。我现在可以告诉你，我不是那种会为了魔法世界更大的利益而为你任何高尚的自我牺牲的荒谬阴谋提供便利的巫师——”

“What,” she said with a scoff, crossing her arms, “and I'm supposed to just facilitate yours for me?”
“什么，”她交叉双臂嘲讽地说，“我就该帮你忙吗？

“I am not being noble you daft witch,” he snapped, clenching his hands into fists in his pockets. “I am pointing you towards the path where you stand to gain at least something .”
“我不是高贵的，你这个女巫，”他厉声说，双手紧握成口袋里的拳头。“我为你指明了一条道路，在那里你至少可以获得一些东西。”

“I don't care about gaining anything.” 
“我不在乎得到任何东西。”

"What else is there to care about?”
“还有什么好关心的？”

Incensed, Hermione opened her mouth to argue back and then seemed to think twice. Closing her mouth tight, she shot him an exasperated glare, nodded once like his words had reminded her of something unpleasant and marched away from him. 
赫敏被激怒了，张开嘴想反驳，然后似乎又想了三思。她紧紧地闭上嘴巴，恼怒地瞪了他一眼，点了点头，仿佛他的话让她想起了什么不愉快的事情，然后大步离开了他。

Lucius let her go, not even looking as she slammed the door behind her. When he was quite sure she was down the corridor, he withdrew his clenched fists from his pockets and slammed one firmly on the table, just to the left of the rejection letter she had left behind. 
卢修斯放开了她，甚至没有看她一眼，她砰地一声关上了身后的门。当他非常确定她在走廊上时，他从口袋里掏出紧握的拳头，用力地将一个拳头砸在桌子上，正好在她留下的拒绝信的左边。

Lucius swirled his firewhiskey in its glass, watching the amber liquid churn with unfocused eyes. Darkness pressed at the windows of his study but the low-burning embers in his fireplace just about kept it at his back. 
卢修斯在玻璃杯中旋转他的火威士忌，用无神相看的眼睛看着琥珀色的液体翻腾。黑暗压在他书房的窗户上，但壁炉里低矮燃烧的余烬几乎把它挡在了他的背后。

Hermione was right – he didn’t think the Wizengamot would be interested in granting him any kind of clemency if it thought he wasn’t able to see the one bit of good he was supposed to be doing to the end. 
赫敏是对的——他不认为威森加摩会有兴趣给予他任何形式的宽大处理，如果它认为他看不到他应该做的一点点好事。

But even with her expert skills in badgering, he doubted any publisher would have him in her book if they thought it would be bad for sales or their reputation. He detested the idea that he was impeding her. Of course, she was also impeding herself in her refusal to simply drop him. 
但即使她精通缠斗，他也怀疑任何出版商如果认为这对销售或声誉不利，就会让他出现在她的书中。他讨厌他阻碍她的想法。当然，她也阻碍了自己拒绝简单地放弃他。

She wouldn't, either; drop him. Not when she had a point that she wanted to put across. She was relentless. A stampede of Hippogriffs couldn't stop Hermione Granger when she had a point to prove and Lucius rather suspected that the defeat of the Dark Lord owed as much to that as it did to Potter.
她也不会;放弃他。当她有一个她想表达的观点时，就不会了。她是无情的。当赫敏·格兰杰需要证明一点时，一群骏鹰的狂奔并不能阻止她，卢修斯宁愿怀疑黑魔王的失败与波特的失败一样多。

Instinctively he'd wanted to be angry at what she'd said. Evil and cruelty. Apathy and selfishness. Ugly words and certainly not how he'd viewed himself at the time. Instead, though, he'd allowed himself to ruminate on them and it had made a strange kind of regretful exhaustion seep into his very bones. 
他本能地想对她说的话生气。邪恶和残忍。冷漠和自私。难听的话语，当然不是他当时如何看待自己。然而，相反，他允许自己沉思它们，这让一种奇怪的遗憾疲惫渗入了他的骨子里。

Once he'd wanted her removed from the wizarding world entirely and would have been happy to be the one to make it happen. Now, he disliked the idea that she wasn't achieving her potential within it and the idea that it was in some way down to him made it worse. His current feelings certainly weren't rooted in any kind of selfishness or cruelty and that made the unproductive, poisonous nature of his old feelings all the more clear.
他曾经想把她从魔法世界里完全赶出去，并且会很高兴成为实现这一目标的人。现在，他不喜欢她没有发挥她的潜力的想法，而这在某种程度上取决于他的想法使情况变得更糟。他现在的感情当然不是植根于任何形式的自私或残忍，这使得他旧感情的无益、有毒的本质更加明显。

He thought she was wrong. He thought she didn’t really stand much of a chance. But he didn’t take much satisfaction in telling her that. It was, he had spent the evening reasoning to himself, surely better to try to help her. Maybe that would go some way towards mitigating the frustrated guilt he was feeling. 
他认为她错了。他觉得她真的没有多少机会。但他对告诉她这件事并不感到满意。是的，他花了一整晚的时间自言自语，最好还是试着帮助她。也许这会在某种程度上减轻他感到的沮丧内疚。

So, he had sent a letter to the one contact he’d made in the media who had been brought almost as low as him and was, therefore, likely to reply without an expectation of anything in return: Barnabus Cuffe, the former and extremely disgraced editor of the Daily Prophet. 
因此，他给他在媒体上结识的一位联系人写了一封信，这个人几乎和他一样被贬低，因此，他很可能不求任何回报就回复了：巴纳布斯·库姆（Barnabus Cuffe），《预言家日报》（Daily Prophet）的前任编辑，也是极度耻辱的编辑。

Cuffe was a man without scruples but Lucius thought he was oddly boyish about it. Everything was important and worthy of his unrestrained enthusiasm but only insofar as it contained potential for “good copy”. He didn’t actually take anything seriously, including himself or his work. To do so would have risked feeling any kind of responsibility for the power and influence that he and the Prophet had once had in the wizarding world. He had seen himself as the caretaker of the Prophet, not the people who read it. 
库尔普是一个毫无顾忌的人，但卢修斯认为他对此感到奇怪的孩子气。一切都很重要，值得他无拘无束的热情，但前提是它包含着“好副本”的潜力。他实际上并没有把任何事情当回事，包括他自己或他的工作。这样做就有可能对他和先知曾经在魔法世界中拥有的权力和影响力承担任何责任。他把自己看作是先知的看护人，而不是阅读先知的人。

Cuffe had never cared about the actual news, he had cared about stories and sales. He had always been able to justify publishing anything as long as he thought it would serve his newspaper well and keep it in print. It had made things very easy when the Dark Lord had returned to power; no bribes were ever required to make the Daily Prophet print in line with the power of the day. 
Cuffe 从不关心实际的新闻，他关心的是故事和销售。他总是能够证明出版任何东西是合理的，只要他认为它对他的报纸有好处并保持印刷。当黑魔王重新掌权时，事情变得非常容易;不需要贿赂就能使《预言家日报》的印刷符合当时的权力。

Yes, Cuffe was spineless and, like anyone who had been on the wrong side of his poisonously impartial quill, Lucius didn’t especially like him but he was one of the few people from whom Lucius thought he might get an honest assessment of Hermione’s chances. 
是的，库普没有骨气，就像任何一个在他那有毒的公正的羽毛笔上站在错误一边的人一样，卢修斯并不特别喜欢他，但他是卢修斯认为他可能会从中得到对赫敏机会的诚实评估的少数人之一。

Lucius had sent the owl three hours ago, which had been three hours after Hermione had marched out of his study. After an hour without a reply, he had grown irate. After two, that melted into a paranoia about the extent of his own irrelevance. And here he was at hour three: drinking.
卢修斯在三个小时前送来了猫头鹰，也就是赫敏走出书房的三个小时后。一个小时没有回答后，他变得愤怒起来。两次之后，这就融化成了对他自己无关紧要程度的偏执狂。而他在第三个小时：喝酒。

He was just beginning to ponder how he might further spiral in hour four when his owl, Nuncio, returned to peck imperiously at his window, a letter tied neatly around his leg. Setting his drink on his desk, Lucius pushed himself out of his seat with a grunt and allowed Nuncio in. Unfurling the parchment, he absently stroked a hand over the owl’s head before reading.
他刚开始思考如何在第四个小时里进一步螺旋式上升，这时他的猫头鹰 Nuncio 回来了，威风凛凛地啄着他的窗户，一封信整齐地系在他的腿上。卢修斯把饮料放在桌子上，咕哝着从座位上站起来，让努西奥进来。他展开羊皮纸，心不在焉地用一只手抚摸着猫头鹰的头，然后读了起来。

“Lucius, 
“卢修斯，

My good man, I cannot tell you what a shock it is to receive a letter from you; I rather thought you hated my guts. Although you were always meticulously polite, so perhaps you do and just write a marvellous letter when you want to.  
我的好人，我无法告诉你收到你的来信是多么的震惊;我宁愿以为你讨厌我的胆量。虽然你总是一丝不苟地彬彬有礼，但也许你这样做了，只是在你想写一封很棒的信的时候写一封很棒的信。

After all, I don’t think anyone who actually likes me would ask how my enforced retirement is going. Don’t think I didn’t notice that little jab, you snake. How would you feel if I asked you how house arrest is treating you? 
毕竟，我认为任何真正喜欢我的人都不会问我强制退休的情况如何。别以为我没注意到那个小戳，你这个蛇。如果我问你软禁对你有什么影响，你会有什么感觉？

Retirement is utterly bloody miserable, as I’m sure you well know. Just the other day, while I was taking my morning walk, I considered divorcing Mabel. Nothing she’s done, of course — marvellous woman — but I thought it might shake things up. Don’t know why I’m bothering, mind, because she’ll take every galleon I’ve got and my balls to boot. Not that they’re much to boast about these days. Time does a number on every wizard, Lucius, just you wait.  
退休是极其悲惨的，我相信你很清楚。就在前几天，当我早上散步时，我考虑过要和梅布尔离婚。当然，她什么都没做——了不起的女人——但我认为这可能会改变一切。不知道我为什么这么烦，注意，因为她会把我的每一艘大帆船和我的蛋蛋都带走。这几天他们没什么好夸耀的。时间对每个巫师都产生了影响，卢修斯，你等着。

I toyed with writing a memoir but, truly, there is nothing more dull than writing about oneself. Even a man who regards himself as highly as you would struggle with it, I’m sure. I’ve tried writing anonymous letters to the Prophet, too, but that hoity toity little fucker that Shacklebolt brought in to replace me has returned every one. My views are ‘not conducive to pleasant reading’ apparently.  
我曾想写一本回忆录，但说真的，没有什么比写自己更乏味的了。我敢肯定，即使是一个和你一样把自己看得很重的人也会为此而挣扎。我也试过给先知写匿名信，但沙克尔博尔特带来的那个用来代替我的那个神圣的小混蛋已经把一封信都退回来了。我的观点显然“不利于愉快的阅读”。

Now, onto your predicament because I am very aware that you don’t give a toss about me, even if I do appreciate that you went to the effort to pretend to care. As I said: meticulously polite. 
现在，说说你的困境，因为我非常清楚你不会对我发呆，即使我真的很感激你不遗余力地假装关心。正如我所说：一丝不苟的礼貌。

I’m no longer publicly welcome in the old circles but I still have my contacts in private and I can honestly tell you it doesn’t shock me in the least that they’re not willing to take on Granger’s book with you included. You’re just not the mood these days, Lucius. You’re the bad times; the enemy vanquished. No one wants to think about you, never mind read about you. Shacklebolt is telling the wizarding world to look forward and, by gum, it’s happy to do it. 
我不再在旧圈子里公开受欢迎，但我仍然私下里有我的联系人，我可以诚实地告诉你，他们不愿意和你一起接受格兰杰的书，这丝毫没有让我感到震惊。你这几天的心情不太好，Lucius。你是糟糕的时代;敌人被击败了。没有人想着你，更不用说阅读你的信息了。沙克尔博尔特告诉魔法世界要向前看，而且，它很高兴这样做。

If Granger wants a hit, she’d be better served leaning into the heroics. That’s what everyone wants right now. A heroic Golden Girl who tells them they were worth every sacrifice she and her little friends made. Golden Girls don’t talk to Death Eaters, Lucius, you know that.  
如果格兰杰想要一击，她最好靠向英雄主义靠拢。这就是现在每个人都想要的。一个英勇的金童玉女，告诉他们她和她的小朋友们所做的每一次牺牲都是值得的。黄金女郎不和食死徒说话，卢修斯，你知道的。

That said… gold is still valuable, even when it’s tarnished. You aren’t a man known for allowing his words to be written down and people are naturally curious. Even a little morbid. They might well buy it just to confirm to themselves that you’re as bad as they thought. I’m in no position to publish her but I would if I could. She might find someone like me, although it’s possible that you wouldn’t be overly enamoured with the marketing angle I’d take. 
可是。。。黄金仍然很有价值，即使它被玷污了。你不是一个以允许他的话被写下来而闻名的人，人们天生好奇。甚至有点病态。他们很可能只是为了向自己确认你和他们想象的一样糟糕。我没有资格发表她，但如果可以的话，我会的。她可能会找到像我这样的人，尽管你可能不会对我所采取的营销角度过于着迷。

I won’t even ask how you and Granger have come to be acquainted. Merlin knows, I can appreciate what a highly restricted social circle can do to a man’s standards and I –” 
我什至不会问你和格兰杰是怎么认识的。梅林知道，我能体会到一个高度受限的社交圈对一个男人的标准有什么影响，而我——”

With an irate grumble, Lucius crumpled Cuffe’s letter in his fist and threw it aimlessly across his desk. It soared over Hermione’s abandoned rejection and landed on the floor. Cuffe was a boor. But he had a point – people were naturally curious. Nosy, he’d call it. A publisher might be convinced to see value in that but that suggested to Lucius that anyone who would publish Hermione wouldn’t do it because they shared her integrity. She was unlikely to get along with a publisher like that.
卢修斯愤怒地咕哝着，用拳头揉搓着库姆的信，漫无目的地把它扔在桌子上。它飞过赫敏被遗弃的拒绝，落在地板上。库尔普是个粗鲁的人。但他有一点——人们天生好奇。爱管闲事，他会这么称呼。出版商可能会被说服看到其中的价值，但这向卢修斯表明，任何想要出版赫敏的人都不会这样做，因为他们和她一样正直。她不太可能与这样的出版商相处。

A knock at the door jerked Lucius out of his reverie and he sat up straighter as it creaked open, a shaft of light from the brightly lit hallway leaking into the room. Draco’s head poked through the gap in the door and he blinked at the relative darkness of the study. “Father?”
一阵敲门声将卢修斯从遐想中拉了出来，当门吱吱作响时，他坐直了身子，一束光从灯火通明的走廊射进了房间。德拉科的头从门的缝隙里探了出来，他对着相对黑暗的书房眨了眨眼。“爸爸？”

“Come in, Draco.”
“进来吧，Draco。”

Draco pushed the door open fully and stepped into the room properly. “Are you…sulking?” he asked, withdrawing his wand from his pocket to point it over the sofa at the fire. 
德拉科把门完全推开，稳稳地走进了房间。“你是......生闷气吗？“他问道，从口袋里掏出魔杖，对准沙发上的火堆。

The low-burning embers burst into writhing flames that lit up the room more fully and Lucius squinted instinctively. “No,” he grumbled, rubbing his eyes with his forefinger and thumb. “I was brooding. Obviously.”
低矮燃烧的余烬迸发出扭动的火焰，将房间更加充分地照亮，卢修斯本能地眯起了眼睛。“不，”他抱怨道，用食指和拇指揉了揉眼睛。“我在沉思。显然。

“Obviously,” Draco repeated dryly, approaching his desk. It was only when Draco was standing across from him that Lucius noticed he was holding a plate. 
“显然，”德拉科干巴巴地重复道，走向他的桌子。直到德拉科站在他对面时，卢修斯才注意到他手里拿着一个盘子。

“You missed dinner,” Draco explained, setting the plate down, followed by some cutlery. Lucius blinked down at the plain fare of meat and potatoes that his son had placed in front of him and then over to the grandfather clock.
“你错过了晚饭，”德拉科解释道，放下盘子，然后是一些餐具。卢修斯对着儿子放在他面前的普通肉类和土豆眨了眨眼，然后转向了老爷爷钟。

“So I did,” he said quietly. “You couldn’t have had Letty bring it?”
“所以我就这样做了，”他轻声说。“你不能让莱蒂带来它吗？”

“That’d be rather impersonal, don’t you think?” Draco asked with a shrug. 
“那会很没有人情味，你不觉得吗？”德拉科耸耸肩问道。

Lucius raised an eyebrow. “And how else would you be able to pry into the reason for my absence, hm?”
卢修斯扬起眉毛。“那你怎么能打探我不在的原因，嗯？”

“Exactly.” Draco had the grace to give him an abashed smile. “It’s been a while since you missed dinner.”
“没错。”德拉科优雅地给了他一个羞愧的微笑。“你已经有一段时间没有错过晚饭了。”

“You couldn’t have brought the wine too?” Lucius muttered, pulling the plate towards himself. He wasn’t especially hungry and the smell of the meat turned his stomach but he picked up the fork and speared a potato anyway.
“你不能也带酒来吧？”卢修斯喃喃自语着，把盘子拉向自己。他不是特别饿，肉的气味让他胃里一阵，但他还是拿起叉子，用长矛刺了一个土豆。

“I think you’re all set,” Draco said, his voice less inclined towards good humour as he gestured towards the glass of firewhiskey sitting more than half-full by Lucius’ elbow. 
“我想你都准备好了，”德拉科说，他的声音不那么幽默了，他指了指坐在卢修斯胳膊肘边的那杯已经装满了一半多的火威士忌。

As Draco stepped back from the desk, his heel caught the crumpled up ball that was Cuffe’s letter. With a curious glance at his father, Draco bent over to pick it up. He hesitated before opening it but, when Lucius didn’t bother to stop him and instead opted to finally eat the potato he’d been torturing, Draco read what Cuffe had written. Lucius watched with interest as his son’s smooth forehead creased with surprise and then collapsed into outrage. 
当Draco从桌子上退后时，他的脚后跟碰到了那个皱巴巴的球，那是Cuffe的信。德拉科好奇地看了他父亲一眼，弯下腰把它捡起来。他在打开门前犹豫了一下，但是，当卢修斯懒得阻止他，而是选择最终吃掉他一直在折磨的土豆时，德拉科读了库姆写的东西。卢修斯饶有兴趣地看着儿子光滑的额头因惊讶而皱起，然后愤怒地瘫倒在地。

Draco looked up sharply, the letter held tightly. “Cuffe dares to suggest that you’re going to be an issue for G–”
德拉科猛地抬起头，紧紧地握着那封信。“Cuffe敢说你会成为G的麻烦——”

Still chewing, Lucius held up a finger to call for pause and nodded once towards the rejection on the desk, drawing Draco’s attention to it. Abandoning Cuffe’s letter, Draco flattened the rejection letter under his hand to read it, sinking into the chair in front of the desk as he did so. When he had finished reading, Draco looked up at his father from under his brow.
卢修斯仍然在咀嚼，他举起一根手指要求暂停，然后朝桌子上的拒绝点了点头，引起了德拉科的注意。Draco放弃了Cuffe的信，将拒绝信压平在手下阅读，一边读一边瘫坐在桌子前面的椅子上。读完后，德拉科从眉毛下抬头看向他的父亲。

“Ridiculous,” he said faintly. 
“荒谬，”他淡淡地说。

Setting his fork down with a defeated air, Lucius pushed his mostly-full plate to the side. “You sound rather like Hermione.”
卢修斯带着挫败的气息放下叉子，将他几乎装满的盘子推到一边。“你听起来挺像赫敏的。”

“Well, she’s right.”
“嗯，她说得对。”

“No, she is not,” Lucius said patiently. “She is upset. As are you. But this is not ridiculous; it is to be expected.”
“不，她不是，”卢修斯耐心地说。“她很不高兴。你也是。但这并不荒谬;这是意料之中的。

“What’s she going to do?” Draco asked, because naturally his son knew she was going to do something.
“她要做什么？”德拉科问道，因为他的儿子自然知道她要做什么。

“She is going to fight tooth and nail against every publisher in the wizarding world until she alienates everyone and leaves herself with no options,” Lucius said, tiredly reclining in his seat, his elbow leaning on its arm. “That is what she is going to do.”
“她要与魔法世界的每一个出版商拼尽全力，直到她疏远了所有人，让自己别无选择，”卢修斯说，疲惫地斜靠在座位上，手肘靠在它的手臂上。“这就是她要做的。”

“You don’t sound very happy about that.”
“你听起来不太高兴。”

“I am far from it.”
“我离它很远。”

Draco frowned, shaking his head. “What, you think she should just drop you? That’s not Granger.”
德拉科皱着眉头，摇了摇头。“什么，你觉得她应该丢下你？那不是格兰杰。

“I’m discovering that.”
“我发现了这一点。”

Eyeing his father, Draco added, “It’s not very you either. If she drops you, her deal with Shacklebolt – your agreement with her –”
看着他的父亲，德拉科补充道，“你也不是很。如果她抛弃了你，她和沙克尔博尔的交易——你和她的协议——”

“Won’t matter if the book never sees the light of day anyway,” Lucius said sharply. "The Wizengamot doesn't set much store by incomplete actions and broken promises."
“反正这本书永远不会见天日也没关系，”卢修斯尖锐地说。“威森加摩并不重视不完整的行动和违背的承诺。”

Following Lucius’ example, Draco fell back in his seat and anchored his elbows on the arms of it. He eyed his father and raised a hand, running the edge of his forefinger along his lips. “Then what are you going to do about it?"
以卢修斯为榜样，德拉科坐回座位上，用手肘固定在椅子的扶手上。他看着他的父亲，抬起一只手，食指的边缘滑过他的嘴唇。“那你打算怎么做？”

“I’m going to ask for your help.” 
“我要请你帮忙。”

Draco’s eyebrows jumped up his forehead and he removed his forefinger from his lip to point it directly at his own face. “My help?” 
德拉科的眉毛跳上了额头，他把食指从嘴唇上移开，直接指向了自己的脸。“我的帮助？”

“Cuffe’s letter was irritating but it suggested that she’s not entirely without hope.” At Lucius’ words, Draco picked the letter up again and skim-read it, his eyes flicking up over the edge of the parchment to fix meet Lucius' with a serious look.
“库姆的信令人恼火，但它表明她并非完全没有希望。”听到卢修斯的话，德拉科又拿起那封信，略读了一遍，他的眼睛在羊皮纸的边缘上瞥了一眼，以严肃的眼神与卢修斯对视。

“I’m not sure I like his reasoning. Using people’s hatred of you to induce them to read Granger’s book doesn’t sound like a good approach at all. For you or her.”
“我不确定我是否喜欢他的理由。利用人们对你的仇恨来诱使他们阅读格兰杰的书，这听起来根本不是一个好方法。为了你或她。

Lucius nodded his agreement and reached for his firewhiskey. “No, but he’s right that I don’t speak out often and that people are naturally curious. If she finds the right person…” Taking a long drink, Lucius mulled over his next steps and when he lowered his glass he found his son’s attention was still on him. “Hermione is more…persuasive in person than she is by letter.”
卢修斯点头表示同意，然后伸手去拿他的火威士忌。“不，但他是对的，我不经常说出来，而且人们天生就很好奇。如果她找到合适的人......”卢修斯喝了一大口酒，思考着下一步该怎么做，当他放下酒杯时，他发现儿子的注意力仍然在他身上。“赫敏更......当面比她写信更有说服力。

Draco’s head tipped to the side in a way that indicated agreement laced with doubt. “Less easily stopped, I’d say. You can’t fold her up and put her in a drawer when she’s standing ranting in front of you.”
德拉科的头歪向一边，似乎同意并带有怀疑。“我想说，不太容易停下来。当她站在你面前咆哮时，你不能把她折叠起来放在抽屉里。

“Precisely,” Lucius said with a small smile. “I need to head her off before she begins firing out abrasive letters to every contact she’s ever had the fortune to make. She needs to have some in-person meetings if she’s ever going to make any headway.”
“正是，”卢修斯微微一笑。“我需要在她开始向她有幸接触的每一个联系人发出粗暴的信件之前阻止她。如果她要取得任何进展，她需要举行一些面对面的会议。

Draco was quiet for a moment, watching as his father took a long drink. “How?”
德拉科沉默了一会儿，看着他的父亲喝了一大口酒。“怎么做到的？”

“We’ll have an event for her,” Lucius replied, setting his glass back down. “Here.” Draco opened his mouth to interrupt but Lucius pressed on. “People are naturally curious, as I said. Even the publishers who have rejected her are unlikely to turn down a chance to have a peek inside Malfoy Manor.”
“我们会为她举办一场活动，”卢修斯回答道，同时放下了他的酒杯。“给你。”德拉科张开嘴想要打断，但卢修斯继续说下去。“正如我所说，人们天生就好奇。即使是那些拒绝了她的出版商，也不太可能拒绝窥探马尔福庄园的机会。

“But–”
“但是——”

“I won’t be attendance, of course, but I’m sure we can have a word with Potter and arrange for the ballroom to be isolated by the Aurors for public use. He’ll have to be here anyway.”
“我当然不会出席，但我相信我们可以和波特谈谈，安排傲罗把舞厅隔离起来供公众使用。无论如何他都必须在这里。

“Potter?” Draco asked, his voice rising with surprise.
“波特？”德拉科问道，他的声音因惊讶而提高。

“Yes. He’s one of her interviewees. Invite them, her friends. And the publishers. I’ll leave those letters to you, I think, given –” Lucius broke off to gesture at the rejection with a dismissive twirl of his fingers. “With all of these people together I think she might stand a chance of persuading someone .”
“是的。他是她的受访者之一。邀请他们，她的朋友们。还有出版商。我想，我会把那些信留给你的——“卢修斯打断了他，用轻蔑的手指旋转着，示意他拒绝了。“有这么多人在一起，我认为她可能有机会说服某人。”

Squinting his eyes like he wasn’t entirely sure he was seeing his father properly, Draco asked, “What exactly will this event involve?”
德拉科眯起眼睛，仿佛不完全确定自己是否正确地看待了他的父亲，他问道，“这件事到底会涉及什么？

“Her recordings are all still in the library, yes? And her transcripts?”
“她的录音都还在图书馆里，对吧？她的成绩单呢？

“I –” Draco blinked, shrugging. “I think so, I don’t –”
“我——”德拉科眨了眨眼，耸了耸肩。“我想是的，我不——”

“Good.” Lucius nodded, businesslike. “Bring them to me in the morning. I have an idea but I’ll need you for the magic.” 
“很好。”卢修斯点点头，很公事公办。“早上把它们带到我这里来。我有个主意，但我需要你来施展魔法。

“Father, this is…” Draco seemed to be at a loss for what it was and Lucius was sure he could see his son mentally picking up words and discarding them as insufficient or incorrect. “Does Granger know about this?”
“爸爸，这是......”德拉科似乎对这是什么感到困惑，卢修斯确信他能看到他的儿子在心里拾取单词，然后把它们当作不足或不正确而丢弃。“格兰杰知道这件事吗？”

“No, it’s a very recent idea. I could tell her I suppose but I rather think she’d find the idea of an event dedicated to her a rather unseemly waste of time. I’m sure she’d find a way to avoid it so that she can sit in the library and fire out letters. Hermione favours efficiency and hard work to get things done but I think she would benefit from learning the value of charm.”
“不，这是一个非常新的想法。我想我可以告诉她，但我宁愿认为她会觉得为她举办活动的想法是相当不体面的浪费时间。我敢肯定她会想办法避免这种情况，这样她就可以坐在图书馆里写信了。赫敏喜欢效率和努力工作来完成事情，但我认为她会从学习魅力的价值中受益。

“You’re going to spring this on her?” It was almost amusing to Lucius that Draco sounded frightened by the idea.
“你要对她下手吗？”对卢修斯来说，德拉科听起来被这个主意吓坏了，这几乎是一件好笑的事情。

“Well, she can hardly avoid it then.”
“嗯，那她就几乎无法避免了。”

A mildly alarmed look at Lucius’ audacity passed over Draco’s face. “When exactly do you want to do this?”
对卢修斯的大胆，德拉科的脸上掠过一丝警惕。“你到底想什么时候做这个？”

Pushing out his lower lip thoughtfully, Lucius slowly turned his glass on the table. “Next week would be best, I think.”
卢修斯若有所思地伸出下唇，慢慢地将酒杯放在桌子上。“我认为下周会是最好的。”

“Next week?” Draco’s voice was choked with incredulity as he sat forward. “A week to organise a whole event? To invite people? To get permission from the –”
“下周？”德拉科坐向前方，声音因难以置信而哽咽。“一周时间组织一整场活动？邀请他人？要从 –”

“Draco, please.” Lucius waved a hand as though pushing Draco’s fears aside. “I watched your mother organise events with as little as an afternoon’s notice. It's perfectly possible when you have the funds. Astoria will be more than equipped to assist.”
“Draco，拜托了。”卢修斯挥了挥手，仿佛将德拉科的恐惧推到一边。“我看着妈组织活动，只用了一个下午的通知。当你有资金时，这是完全可能的。Astoria 将完全有能力提供帮助。

“She’s eight months pregnant.”
“她已经怀孕八个月了。”

“Then I’m sure she will relish a distraction.”
“那我敢肯定她会喜欢分散注意力的。”

Scoffing, Draco dropped back in his seat and glared at his father who simply smiled blandly back. “This is a lot of effort for someone that’s probably going to curse us for going to it.”
德拉科嗤之以鼻，坐回座位上，瞪着他的父亲，而父亲只是淡淡地回以微笑。“对于一个可能会诅咒我们去做的人来说，这是很大的努力。”

“I’m sure she will thank us when it helps her to get what she wants.”
“我相信当它帮助她得到她想要的东西时，她会感谢我们。”

There was a pause in which Lucius took another drink and as he set the glass down, Draco asked, “Why do you care ? Why do you care if she gets what she wants?”
停顿了一会儿，卢修斯又喝了一口，当他放下杯子时，德拉科问道：“你为什么在乎？你为什么在乎她是否得到她想要的东西呢？

Lucius was quiet as he relinquished his hold on his glass and sat up slightly straighter in his seat. “I never said anything about caring, Draco.”
卢修斯安静地放开了对玻璃杯的控制，在座位上坐得稍微挺直了。“我从来没有说过任何关心的事情，德拉科。”

The sound of a quiet, doubtful laugh in the back of Draco’s throat made Lucius look up. “You didn’t need to,” Draco said, frowning. “You’re exposing yourself to help her and running the risk of her hexing your bollocks off to do it. You don’t do that because you don’t care.”
德拉科的喉咙后部发出一声安静而疑惑的笑声，让卢修斯抬起头来。“你不需要，”德拉科皱着眉头说。“你冒着自己去帮助她，冒着她把你的肮脏弄掉的风险来做这件事。你不这样做是因为你不在乎。

Pressing his lips together, Lucius met Draco’s scrutinising gaze. His son wasn’t stupid. He hadn’t raised him to be. “I won’t get what I want — my magic and my freedom — if she doesn’t get what she wants.”
卢修斯紧紧抿着嘴唇，与德拉科审视的目光相遇。他的儿子并不傻。他没有把他培养成这样。“如果她得不到她想要的，我就得不到我想要的——我的魔法和我的自由。”

It made sense, Lucius thought, but Draco didn’t seem entirely satisfied. Instead his son’s scrutiny only seemed to intensify. “She said you apologised to her,” Draco finally said. 
这很有道理，卢修斯想，但德拉科似乎并不完全满意。相反，他儿子的审视似乎越来越严厉。“她说你向她道歉了，”德拉科终于说了。

Lucius gazed down at his glass with only a few mouthfuls left in it and decided he was really going to have to have a word with Hermione about what she and Draco discussed when he wasn’t there. “Yes.”
卢修斯低头看着他的杯子，杯子里只剩下几口了，他决定他真的得和赫敏谈谈他不在的时候她和德拉科讨论的事情。“是的。”

“She said she believed you were sincere.” 
“她说她相信你是真诚的。”

Lucius looked up at his son from beneath his brows. “I was.”
卢修斯从眉毛下抬头看着他的儿子。“我是。”

Draco’s nod was barely perceptible, like he had ascertained a previously questionable fact and was satisfied by it. “Did she forgive you?”
德拉科的点头几乎看不见，就像他已经确定了一个之前有问题的事实并对此感到满意。“她原谅你了吗？”

At the memory of his apology, a wry smile crept over Lucius’ face without his permission. It felt like a long time ago given how much had changed. “No. I believe that’s something she would like me to earn.”
想起他的道歉，卢修斯的脸上未经他的允许就悄悄地露出了苦笑。考虑到变化有多大，感觉就像是很久以前的事情了。“不。我相信这是她希望我赚到的。

There was a pause in which Draco studied his father’s smile and then he asked, “And you intend to try?”
德拉科停顿了一下，端详着他父亲的笑容，然后他问道，“你打算试试吗？

Lucius sighed and pressed his back into his chair, raising his head to look his son fully in his face. This conversation wasn’t ending and there was little he could do but attempt to see it through with his head held high. “It may take some time. But yes. Perhaps helping her with this event will help.”
卢修斯叹了口气，把背靠在椅子上，抬起头，全神贯注地看着儿子的脸。这次谈话并没有结束，他也无能为力，只能昂首挺胸地尝试完成它。“这可能需要一些时间。但是是的。也许帮助她参加这次活动会有所帮助。

“Father,” Draco began slowly. “What – just how exactly –” Draco exhaled sharply through his nose and took the dive. “What is Granger to you?”
“爸爸，”德拉科缓缓地开口。“什么——到底是怎么——”德拉科从鼻子里猛地呼出一口气，然后俯冲起来。“格兰杰对你来说是什么？”

After that question, even the dinner plate felt like an oppressive presence in the room and Lucius found himself pushing it closer to the edge of his desk as though to put it out of earshot. Swallowing, he clasped his hands in front of himself and leaned forward towards his son. “If I knew that with any certainty Draco, I assure you I would tell you.”
在这个问题之后，就连餐盘在房间里也感觉像是一种压迫感，Lucius 发现自己把它推得更靠近桌子的边缘，仿佛要把它放在听不见的地方。他咽了口口水，双手紧握在身前，身体前倾，朝着儿子。“如果我知道的话，德拉科，我向你保证，我会告诉你的。”

Eyes widening, Draco said, “I don’t need certainty. I just want to know what…give me an approximation.”
Draco睁大了眼睛，说，“我不需要确定性。我只是想知道什么......给我一个近似值。

Give an approximation of his feelings for Granger. Now there was a challenge he hadn’t anticipated facing any time soon. “She is…” Lucius tilted his head, lowering his eyes to his clasped hands. “More to me than I ever thought she would be.” His gaze rose swiftly and pinned his shell-shocked son with a severe look. “And far less to me than you.” 
请大致描述他对格兰杰的感情。现在，他没有预料到很快就会面临一个挑战。“她是......”卢修斯歪着头，低头看着他紧握的双手。“对我来说，她会比我想象的要多。”他的目光迅速抬起，用严厉的眼神注视着他震惊不醒的儿子。“而且对我来说远不如你。”

“Does she know ?” Draco’s voice was choked, breathless.
“她知道吗？”德拉科的声音哽咽着，喘不过气来。

Lucius flexed his fingers against one another and lifted a shoulder. “I’ve given her reason to suspect as much.”
卢修斯用手指相互弯曲，抬起了一个肩膀。“我已经给了她同样怀疑的理由。”

“And does she –”
“她——”

“I don’t think she’s displeased by it.”
“我不认为她对此感到不满。”

“Merlin,” Draco said on an exhale. Raising a hand to cup it over his mouth, he curled his body forward so that his elbows came to rest on his knees. Folding his fingers into a fist at his chin to reveal his lips, Draco looked up at Lucius from across the desk. “Merlin's fucking –” He blinked, squeezing his eyes tight like he thought it might wake him up from a dream. “Father. When were you going to tell me?”
“梅林，”德拉科呼出一口气说。他抬起一只手捂住嘴巴，身体向前蜷缩，使他的肘部停在膝盖上。德拉科将手指握成拳头，露出嘴唇，从桌子对面抬头看着卢修斯。“梅林他妈的——”他眨了眨眼，紧紧地眯着眼睛，仿佛他觉得这会把他从梦中惊醒。“爸爸。你打算什么时候告诉我？

In response to Draco’s physical cringe, Lucius felt himself instinctively sit up straighter, his pride not allowing him to be ashamed. “When I had a better understanding of what it was,” he said, a slight defensiveness to his tone as he attempted to reassert his position as the father in the room. “When it became any of your business, Draco.” 
作为对德拉科身体畏缩的回应，卢修斯感觉到自己本能地坐直了，他的骄傲不允许他感到羞耻。“当我对那是什么有了更好的理解时，”他说，当他试图重申他作为房间里父亲的地位时，他的语气中带着一丝防御。“当它变成你的事的时候，德拉科。”

“I just don’t understand when – how –” Still curled over towards his knees, Draco lowered his head and covered his face with his hands.
“我就是不明白什么时候——怎么——”德拉科仍然蜷缩着膝盖，低下头，用手捂住脸。

“We have spent months in one another’s company.”
“我们在彼此的陪伴下度过了几个月。”

“Well, yeah.” Draco’s voice was faint and muffled. “But I didn’t think – the way it started –” He looked up through his fingers at his father, torn. “You’ve been…different lately.” 
“嗯，是的。”德拉科的声音微弱而低沉。“但我没想——事情是这样开始的——”他透过手指抬头看着他的父亲，心里很伤心。“你一直......最近不同了。

“I hadn’t noticed,” was Lucius’ stiff response. 
“我没注意到，”卢修斯僵硬地回答。

“I have.” Draco lowered his hands so that his arms were crossed over his knees. “And she's been here a lot more. It just never occurred to me that –” Suddenly, Draco sat up and dropped back in his chair, his hands coming up to clutch at his hair. “Oh, fuck, a glow —"
“我有。”德拉科放下双手，双臂交叉在膝盖上。“她在这里的时间更长。我从来没有想过——“突然，Draco坐了起来，坐回了椅子上，他的手伸过来抓着他的头发。“哦，操，一阵光芒——”

"A glow?"
“发光？”

"Weasley said she has a glow. Have you –”
“韦斯莱说她有光泽。 你——”

“ Weasley ?” Lucius asked sharply. “What have you been –”
“韦斯莱？”卢修斯尖锐地问道。“你最近怎么了——”

Draco pointed an accusing finger at him. “What have you been –”
德拉科用指责的手指指着他。“你最近怎么了——”

“Draco.”
“德拉科。”

Lunging out of his seat across the table, Draco snatched up Lucius’ firewhiskey and downed the last of it as he dropped back into a sitting position. “I don’t want to know,” he said, staring into the empty glass with a haunted expression, his hair messy and flopping over his forehead. “No, I don’t want to know. I can’t know. I never wish to know.”
德拉科从桌子对面的座位上冲了出来，一把抢过卢修斯的火威士忌，喝掉了最后一瓶，然后他又坐了回去。“我不想知道，”他说，一脸懊恼地盯着空杯子，头发凌乱，垂在额头上。“不，我不想知道。我不知道。我从来不想知道。

“Draco –”
“德拉科——”

“Bloody hell,” Draco continued, ignoring him. “I want to be angry at you. Both of you. I want to tell you to just…not but you have been different.” Their eyes met again and Lucius saw that Draco’s expression was almost desperate. “You’ve been…happier. Have you been happier?”
“的，”德拉科继续说，无视他。“我想对你生气。你们俩。我想告诉你只是......不是，但你一直不同。他们的目光再次相遇，卢修斯看到德拉科的表情几乎是绝望的。“你一直......快乐。你更快乐了吗？

Lucius pondered. “I’ve been diverted.” Draco choked and looked at the empty glass as though willing it to refill. “I never thought about it in terms of happiness.” 
卢修斯沉思着。“我被转移了。”德拉科哽咽着看着空杯子，仿佛希望它能重新装满。“我从来没有想过幸福。”

Happiness wasn’t really a singular feeling to his mind – it was a collage of feelings and circumstances. It was comfort, security, connection, a sense of achievement. Lucius considered the previous months – the times he had made Hermione laugh, his openness with her and Draco, the general contentment that seemed to permeate his recent days. He didn’t feel like he was missing much. 
在他的心中，幸福并不是一种真正的单一感觉——它是情感和环境的拼贴。这是舒适、安全、联系、成就感。卢修斯回想着之前的几个月——他逗赫敏笑的时候，他对她和德拉科的坦诚，以及似乎弥漫在他最近几天的普遍满足感。他并不觉得自己缺少什么。

“Perhaps I am.” He fixed Draco with a serious look and took in a slow, deep breath through his nose. “Your happiness means more to me Draco.” He hoped that put across what he meant; what he would sacrifice for his son now after so many years of not sacrificing enough. 
“也许我是。”他用严肃的眼神盯着德拉科，然后用鼻子缓缓地深吸了一口气。“你的快乐对我来说更有意义，德拉科。”他希望这能说明他的意思;在这么多年没有做出足够牺牲之后，他现在会为他的儿子牺牲什么。

A sad, huffing laugh made Draco’s shoulders jump up. He shook his head. “I don’t think I’d ever be happy if I knew I was standing in the way of yours. That’s not what I want. I just…did it have to be Granger?”
一阵悲伤的、喘息的笑声让德拉科的肩膀跳了起来。他摇摇头。“如果我知道我挡住了你的路，我想我永远不会高兴。那不是我想要的。我只是。。。一定是格兰杰吗？

“I have asked myself that multiple times,” Lucius said dryly.
“我已经问过自己好好几次了，”卢修斯干巴巴地说。

Draco scoffed. “I can only assume she appreciates your sense of romance – no, I can’t. I thought I could joke about it but I can’t.” Draco set the empty glass on the desk with a heavy clunk and stared at it for a moment. “I’ll just…we’ll talk in the morning,” he said, pushing himself to his feet and looking down at Lucius. “I’ll bring those Wheezebox things from the library and we’ll just…yeah. We can talk about it then.”
德拉科嗤之以鼻。“我只能假设她欣赏你的浪漫感——不，我不能。我以为我可以开玩笑，但我不能。德拉科把空杯子放在桌子上，发出沉重的哐当声，盯着它看了一会儿。“我就......我们早上再谈，“他说，站起身来，低头看着卢修斯。“我会从图书馆带来那些 Wheezebox 的东西，然后我们就......是的。那我们就可以谈谈了。

“Draco –” Lucius said as his son turned away.
“德拉科——”卢修斯说，他的儿子转过身去。

Turning back, Draco raised a hand to stop his father. “Just let me –” He sighed and dragged a hand through his hair to push the loose strands back from his forehead. “You know you spent most of your life and pretty much all of mine calling people like her Mudbloods behind closed doors, right? Not to mention everything else. You understand why this is so surprising to me?”
德拉科转过身来，举起一只手阻止了他的父亲。“就让我——”他叹了口气，用一只手拽过他的头发，把散乱的发丝从额头上推开。“你知道你一生中的大部分时间，几乎都是在闭门造车地打电话给像她这样的泥巴种人，对吧？更不用说其他一切了。你明白为什么我这么惊讶吗？

“Did you not tell me yourself that she’s not what that word means?” 
“你不是自己告诉我，她不是那个词的意思吗？”

“I did but –”
“我记得，但是——”

“And did you not say that you hoped that she would help me to see that the world would not necessarily be better without Muggleborns?”
“你不是说过，你希望她能帮我看到，没有麻瓜出身的人，世界不一定会变得更好吗？”

“Well, I did –”
“嗯，我做到了——”

“Then perhaps take a moment to savour your success.”
“那么，也许花点时间细细品味你的成功。”

“My success,” Draco said faintly, flatly.
“我的成功，”德拉科淡淡而平淡地说。

“This would never have been possible without you, Draco.”
“没有你，这绝对不可能，德拉科。”

Draco scowled. “Are you really going to blame me f–”
德拉科皱起眉头。“你真的要怪我吗——”

“Perhaps I’m thanking you.”
“也许我是在感谢你。”

A surprised laugh bubbled out of Draco but it sounded almost pained. “Father, I know being locked up in the Manor has perhaps made it easy to forget but there’s a world out there beyond you, me and Granger and –”
德拉科发出一阵惊讶的笑声，但听起来几乎是痛苦的。“爸爸，我知道被关在庄园里可能很容易让人忘记，但在你之外还有一个世界，我和格兰杰，还有——”

“I am very aware of the world out there, Draco,” Lucius said coldly, gesturing to the crumpled collection of parchment littering his desk. “I had a run in with it only today.”
“我非常了解外面的世界，德拉科，”卢修斯冷冷地说，指着散落在他桌上的皱巴巴的羊皮纸。“我今天才遇到了它。”

Draco cringed. “I just mean…Granger’s friends. Weasley especially – the girl one. I’m not sure they’re ever likely to accept whatever –”
德拉科畏缩了。“我只是说......格兰杰的朋友们。尤其是韦斯莱——那个女孩。我不确定他们是否可能接受任何东西——”

“They are not to know anything," Lucius said sternly. "And if they ever do find out..." He shrugged. "I don’t care what they think.”
“他们什么都不知道，”卢修斯严肃地说。“如果他们真的发现了......”他耸耸肩。“我不在乎他们怎么想。”

Draco looked almost sad, like Lucius had said something particularly disappointing. “She might. She cares about a lot of things, including them. I’ve seen that more than you. Just…bear that in mind, okay?”
德拉科看起来几乎是伤心的，就像卢修斯说了什么特别令人失望的话。“她可能会。她关心很多事情，包括它们。我比你见过得更多。只。。。记住这一点，好吗？

Without another word, Draco turned and left the study. Lucius sat in the silence for a time, staring at his empty firewhiskey glass. Then, with a heavy sigh, he got to his feet, swiped it from the desk and crossed the room to refill it.
德拉科一言不发，转身离开了书房。卢修斯在寂静中坐了一会儿，盯着他空的火威士忌杯。然后，他重重地叹了口气，站起来，从桌子上刷了一下，穿过房间重新装满了它。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

So Draco finally knows! And he and Lucius still have a little more to discuss. Writing Draco's reaction was always going to be tough. In my previous story he was really angry but that didn't feel like the right approach for this Draco. He's been so exhausted by his father's withdrawal and so pleased by his recent opening up that I think he would have to see some of the benefits of his closeness with Hermione, even if he can't really understand it and doesn't wholly approve of it. I hope you all enjoyed and thank you so much for still being on this journey :D
所以 Draco 终于知道了！他和 Lucius 还有更多的事情要讨论。写 Draco 的反应总是很艰难的。在我之前的故事中，他真的很生气，但那感觉不像是这个 Draco 的正确方法。他父亲的退缩让他筋疲力尽，又因为他最近的敞开心扉而感到高兴，我想他必须看到他和赫敏亲密的一些好处，即使他不能真正理解，也不完全赞成。我希望你们都喜欢并非常感谢你们仍然在这段旅程中:D

Chapter 31
第三十一章Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾August 1st 
8 月 1 日

Draco lazily flicked his wand and sent a box filled with Wheezeboxes sliding onto his father’s desk. “Here,” he said, tucking his wand away. “All of her interviews. Labelled, of course – we’re talking about Granger here.”
德拉科懒洋洋地弹了弹魔杖，把一个装满喘息盒的盒子滑到了他爸爸的桌子上。“给你，”他说，把魔杖收起来。“她所有的采访。当然是有标签的——我们在这里谈论的是格兰杰。

Eyeing the mound of devices, Lucius nodded with satisfaction. “Good,” he said, setting his hand on top of another box. “I have the transcripts here.” He didn't mention, though he eyed the space in the air where Draco's wand had just been, that he'd been forced to carry them. 
看着那堆设备，卢修斯满意地点了点头。“很好，”他说，把手放在另一个盒子上。“我这里有文字记录。”他没有提到，尽管他盯着Draco的魔杖刚才所在的空中空间，他是被迫携带它们的。

“Is this really a good idea?” Draco asked with a small frown. “I can’t see her being too happy with us riffling through her things if she comes by to work.”
“这真的是个好主意吗？”德拉科皱着眉头问道。“如果她来上班，我看不出她会对我们吵闹她的东西太高兴。”

“Oh, I can’t see her coming by,” Lucius said lightly, picking up a sheaf of parchment to peruse it. “Not this morning, at least.”
“哦，我看不见她走过来，”卢修斯淡淡地说，拿起一捆羊皮纸仔细阅读。“至少今天早上不会。”

Draco’s frown deepened. “Err, why?”
德拉科的眉头皱得更深了。“呃，为什么？”

“She’s quite annoyed at me, I think,” Lucius said, lowering the parchment to look over it at his son with a wry smile. “I imagine she’ll want to cool off.”
“我想她对我很生气，”卢修斯说，放下羊皮纸，苦笑着看着他的儿子。“我想她会想冷静下来。”

“Do I want to know?”
“我想知道吗？”

“It’s nothing lascivious, I assure you.” Lucius didn’t miss Draco’s cringe and snorted softly to himself. “She’s just annoyed that I tried to withdraw my interview. And that I told her she was wrong.” He placed the transcript neatly back in the box and tilted his head thoughtfully before adding, “There’s a good chance that she’s annoyed by the general tone I used too.”
“我向你保证，这没什么的。”卢修斯没有错过德拉科的畏缩，轻声哼了一声。“她只是对我试图撤回采访感到恼火。我告诉她她错了。他把笔录整齐地放回盒子里，若有所思地歪着头，然后补充道，“她很有可能也对我用的那种一般语气感到恼火。

Draco blinked and shook his head with a bewildered air. “Rather you than me. So what are we doing with these?” he asked, waving a hand over the box of Wheezeboxes. 
德拉科眨了眨眼，带着困惑的神情摇了摇头。“宁愿你，也不愿我。那么我们要用这些做什么呢？“他问道，一边在一盒 Wheezebox 上挥了挥手。

Lucius tapped the box of transcripts. “Each interviewee has a dedicated recording device and a matching transcript. I want to find the most interesting sections of their conversations and charm the devices to play them on a loop.” Lifting a transcript up, he held it out so Draco could take it. “You’ll notice that Hermione has already done most of the work for us by underlining the pertinent sections of her interviews – I suggest that we make use of the best of them.” 
卢修斯敲了敲那盒文字记录。“每个受访者都有一个专用的录音设备和一份匹配的文字记录。我想找到他们对话中最有趣的部分，并吸引设备循环播放它们。他拿起一份成绩单，把它拿出来，让Draco可以拿走。“你会注意到赫敏已经为我们完成了大部分工作，强调了她采访的相关部分——我建议我们利用它们中最好的。”

“And what will you do with them?”
“那你打算怎么处理他们？”

“If we disperse them around the ballroom, with the application of some sound containment charms we should be able to create listening stations for people to hear her work. I think it could have a striking effect.”
“如果我们把它们分散在宴会厅周围，应用一些隔音咒，我们应该能够创建倾听站，让人们听到她的作品。我认为它可能会产生惊人的影响。

“It just might,” Draco said thoughtfully, flipping over a sheet of parchment to continue reading the interview. 
“也许吧，”德拉科若有所思地说，翻开一张羊皮纸继续阅读采访。

“Have you started sending the letters?”
“你开始寄信了吗？”

“I’ve started with Potter,” Draco said, looking up from the parchment and appearing suddenly quite tired. “I didn’t see the point in doing anything if the Aurors weren’t going to give us permission to use the manor.”
“我从波特开始，”德拉科说，从羊皮纸上抬起头来，突然显得相当疲惫。“如果傲罗们不同意我们使用庄园，我就看不出做任何事情的意义。”

“He’s responded?”
“他回应了吗？”

“Within an hour, incredibly,” Draco said. “To say he was surprised to hear from me would be an understatement. But he said he would help to make it happen. As long as you’re keeping to your house arrest, he doesn’t see why the other side of the Manor can’t be temporarily publicly accessible. They’ll station Aurors at the doors.”
“在一个小时内，令人难以置信，”德拉科说。“说他对听到我的消息感到惊讶是轻描淡写的。但他表示，他会帮助实现这一目标。只要你一直被软禁，他就不明白为什么庄园的另一边不能暂时公开进入。他们会在门口派驻傲罗。

Lucius nodded, clearly pleased. “And you asked him not to tell her?”
卢修斯点点头，显然很高兴。“你让他不要告诉她？”

“I thought if I did that then he almost certainly would tell her.” Draco shrugged as he set the transcript down and started lifting Wheezeboxes out of the box to lay them on the desk. “So I didn’t say anything and we’ll just hope he’ll assume that she knows because of that.” 
“我想如果我这样做了，那么他几乎肯定会告诉她。”德拉科耸了耸肩，把成绩单放下，开始从盒子里拿出Wheezebox，把它们放在桌子上。“所以我什么都没说，我们只是希望他会因此假设她知道。”

“Very astute,” Lucius said with an approving nod. 
“非常精明，”卢修斯赞许地点点头说。

Draco looked up, his eyebrows raised, and found his father looking at him with something that came close to pride. He tried to look nonchalant, offering Lucius another shrug but he failed to dampen the smile that trembled at the corners of his mouth. 
德拉科抬起头，扬起眉毛，发现他的父亲用一种近乎骄傲的眼神看着他。他试图让自己看起来漫不经心，又向卢修斯耸了耸肩，但他没能抑制住嘴角颤抖的笑容。

“Astoria offered to handle catering and decor,” Draco added. “It turns out you were right – she’s grateful for the distraction.”
“Astoria 主动提出处理餐饮和装饰，”Draco 补充道。“事实证明你是对的——她很感激这种干扰。”

“And she doesn’t object to the Manor being opened for an evening?” Lucius asked, moving behind his desk to pull the box of transcripts across it towards himself.
“她不反对庄园开放一个晚上吗？”卢修斯问道，他走到桌子后面，把那盒文字记录拉向自己。

“Oh no,” Draco said, waving a dismissive hand. “She said she thought it was quite sweet actually.”
“哦，不，”德拉科说，不屑一顾地挥了挥手。“她说她觉得这其实很甜蜜。”

Lucius’ movements stuttered to a stop and he glanced up to see his son was smirking at him. “Sweet,” Lucius repeated flatly. 
卢修斯的动作结结巴巴地停了下来，他抬头一瞥，发现他的儿子正在对他傻笑。“甜蜜的，”卢修斯平淡地重复道。

“That you want to help Granger.”
“你想帮助格兰杰。”

“What did you tell her, Draco?” Lucius asked, warning in his voice.
“你告诉她什么了，德拉科？”卢修斯问道，声音里带着警告。

“I didn’t tell her anything,” Draco said, lifting his hands in a gesture of surrender. “I didn’t have to. I think maybe she’s just a little more perceptive than you give her credit for. Than I give her credit for, actually.”
“我什么都没告诉她，”德拉科说，举起双手做出投降的手势。“我不必这样做。我想也许她只是比你认为的要敏锐一点。实际上，我把功劳归功于她。

Grumbling, Lucius carried on with his task. “Do not tell a soul about what you know, Draco,” he said, speaking down to his desk. “Hermione doesn’t want to undermine her position with regards to appealing with the Wizengamot.”
卢修斯抱怨着，继续他的任务。“不要把你知道的告诉任何人，德拉科，”他对着自己的桌子说。“赫敏不想破坏她在向威森加摩上诉方面的立场。”

“I will be the very soul of discretion,” Draco said, though Lucius thought he heard an undertone of sarcasm that prompted him to fix his son with a stern glare from under his brow. 
“我会成为最谨慎的灵魂，”德拉科说，尽管卢修斯觉得他听到了一丝讽刺，这促使他用眉毛下严厉的目光盯着他的儿子。

“You will.”
“你会的。”

They were quiet, then, as they got to work, settling down on either side of the desk. Lucius made it his business to scour the transcripts for the best of Hermione’s underlines for each Wheezebox, while Draco withdrew his wand and began experimenting with controlling the sound.
然后，他们安静下来，开始工作，在桌子的两边坐下。卢修斯的任务是搜索赫敏为每个喘息盒加以最好的下划线，而德拉科则抽出他的魔杖，开始尝试控制声音。

“Start with Shacklebolt,” Lucius said, shuffling the sheafs of parchment he had extracted from her transcript to neaten them before handing them to Draco. Taking the rest of the transcript, he returned it to the box carefully to keep it separate from the ones that still had to be done. 
“从沙克尔开始，”卢修斯说，把他从她的成绩单里提取出来的羊皮纸捆整理干净，然后递给德拉科。他拿着剩下的成绩单，小心翼翼地把它放回盒子里，与那些仍然需要完成的记录分开。

Draco drew the sheets towards himself and then located the appropriate Wheezebox as Lucius drew out a fresh transcript to begin the process again. The longer he worked, the less he heard the repetitive tick of the grandfather clock in the silence.
德拉科把床单拉向自己，然后找到合适的喘息盒，卢修斯拿出一份新的成绩单，再次开始这个过程。他工作的时间越长，就越少听到寂静中爷钟重复的滴答声。

“So,” Draco eventually said conversationally, twirling his wand between his fingers as he looked up from the Wheezebox. “Are you going to marry her?”
“所以，”德拉科最终说，一边用手指转动着魔杖，一边从喘息盒中抬起头来。“你打算娶她吗？”

Lucius froze in the middle of turning a page and, from under his brow, gave his son an incredulous look. Seeing it, Draco shrugged and pushed his lower lip out in a way that suggested he thought he was being perfectly reasonable.  
卢修斯在翻页时愣住了，从他的眉毛下，难以置信地看了他儿子一眼。看到它，德拉科耸了耸肩，把下唇往外推，这表明他认为自己完全合理。

“I did not tell you about myself and Hermione so that you could ask ridiculous questions, Draco.”
“我没有告诉你关于我和赫敏的事情，这样你就可以问一些荒谬的问题了，德拉科。”

“Is it ridiculous?”
“这很荒谬吗？”

Dropping the parchment to his desk with a slap , Lucius sighed and leaned back. “Patently so,” he snapped. 
砸了一巴掌，把羊皮纸扔到桌子上，卢修斯叹了口气，向后靠了靠。“显然是这样，”他厉声说。

“So, that’s a ‘no’, then.”
“所以，那就是'不'。”

“It’s a nothing ,” Lucius snapped. “Hermione and I have not discussed our relationship in that kind of depth so I would prefer not to start the discussion with you.”
“没什么，”卢修斯厉声说。“赫敏和我还没有深入讨论过我们的关系，所以我不想和你开始讨论。”

“So, it’s a ‘maybe’?”
“所以，这是一个'可能'？”

“Draco.”
“德拉科。”

“Well, do you see it lasting? Or is it a ‘while we’re both around the Manor we might as well’ kind of thing?” 
“嗯，你觉得它会持续吗？”还是'当我们都在庄园周围时，我们不妨'之类的事情？

Lucius pinched the bridge of his nose between his forefinger and thumb, closing his eyes to block his son out. “I am very fond of Hermione, Draco. That is the extent of it. Perhaps it will last, perhaps it won’t. That’s really down to her.”
卢修斯用食指和拇指捏住他的鼻梁，闭上眼睛挡住了儿子的视线。“我非常喜欢赫敏，德拉科。这就是它的程度。也许它会持续，也许不会。这真的取决于她。

“What do you mean that’s down to her?”
“你说那是她的错吗？”

“What she wants does have some bearing on how we move forward,” Lucius said dryly, opening his eyes to see Draco blinking at him with surprise as he grasped the implication: Lucius would carry on if Hermione did.
“她想要什么确实对我们如何前进有一定影响，”卢修斯干巴巴地说，睁开眼睛看到德拉科惊讶地向他眨了眨眼，他明白了其中的含义：如果赫敏这样做，卢修斯会继续前进。

There was a pause in which Draco inspected his father and then he said, “I don’t think Granger would be a very good mother to me.”
德拉科停顿了一下，打量了一下他的父亲，然后他说，“我不认为格兰杰会是个很好的母亲。

Nostrils flaring, Lucius rolled his eyes. “I thought you were unable to joke about this.”
卢修斯张开了鼻孔，翻了个白眼。“我以为你不能拿这个开玩笑。”

“That was last night. But I'm starting to think laughing about it might be my only way forward.”
“那是昨晚的事。但我开始认为，对此一笑置之可能是我唯一的前进道路。

“Just get on with what you’re supposed to be doing,” Lucius said, sharply jabbing a hand towards the Wheezebox before picking up the transcript again.  
“继续你该做的事，”Lucius说，用一只手猛地戳了戳Wheezebox，然后又拿起了笔录。

“Speaking of mothers,” Draco added, his voice abruptly devoid of levity. “Have you thought about her? Telling her before it gets to anyone else?”
“说到母亲，”德拉科补充道，他的声音突然失去了轻快。“你想过她吗？在别人知道之前告诉她？

“What I do is no longer any of her business.” Lucius didn’t look up at Draco as he said the words, weighing them down with a cold finality that invited no further discussion. 
“我做什么不再是她的事。”卢修斯说这句话时没有抬头看德拉科，以一种冷酷的结局压制着他们，没有再让人进一步讨论。

A muffled sigh signalled Draco’s admission of defeat but, before he carried on with his task at hand, he glanced over at his father and took in his serious, somewhat pinched expression for a moment. “I’m pleased for you,” Draco finally said quietly. “Trying to be.”
德拉科低沉地叹了口气，表示他承认了失败，但在他继续手头的任务之前，他瞥了一眼他的父亲，并注意到了他严肃的、有点紧绷的表情。“我为你感到高兴，”德拉科终于轻声说。“努力成为。”

Lucius’ eyes flicked over to his son, landing on his face and seeing sincerity there. With a barely audible sigh through his nose, Lucius nodded once. “Thank you, Draco.”
卢修斯的眼睛瞥向他的儿子，落在他的脸上，看到了那里的真诚。卢修斯的鼻子里发出一声几乎听不见的叹息，他点了点头。“谢谢你，德拉科。”

August 2nd
8月2日

“Draco: I didn't know what to do when he was arrested. Mother was crying constantly. Auntie Bella was shouting at her and telling her to stop because I don’t think she knew what to do with tears that she hadn't caused. He hadn't told me what to do if he never came back. I honestly think he never thought it would happen. Maybe he couldn't afford to, I don't know. 
“德拉科：他被捕时我不知道该怎么办。妈妈一直在哭。贝拉阿姨对她大喊大叫，让她停下来，因为我认为她不知道该如何处理不是她造成的眼泪。他没有告诉我，如果他再也没有回来怎么办。老实说，我认为他从未想过会发生这种情况。也许他负担不起，我不知道。

Hermione: What did you decide?
赫敏：你做了什么决定？

Draco: I tried to replace him. Isn't that what sons are supposed to do? Replace their fathers?
Draco：我试着换下他。这不正是儿子们应该做的吗？取代他们的父亲？

Hermione: I think the answer you'd get to that question would depend entirely on who you asked, Malfoy. How did it feel?
赫敏：我想你对这个问题的回答完全取决于你问了谁，马尔福。感觉如何？

Draco: Bad, obviously. He was still alive. And I missed him. He'd been around less that year but the manor still didn't feel right without him. It felt like I was putting on a costume that didn't fit. 
Draco：显然很糟糕。他还活着。我想念他。那一年他来得少了，但庄园没有他还是感觉不太对劲。感觉就像我穿上了一件不合身的服装。

Hermione: Did not having him there make it harder or easier to do what Voldemort asked of you?
赫敏：没有他在那儿，是不是让伏地魔让你做的事更难或更容易？

Draco: Harder. It wouldn't have happened if he'd been there. You can give me that sceptical look all you want, Granger; he wouldn't have let it happen. He'd have done it himself before he let me. I know it.”
Draco：更难。如果他在那儿，这一切就不会发生。你随便你怎么看我就怎么看我那怀疑的眼神吧，格兰杰;他不会让这种情况发生。在他允许我之前，他自己会做的。我知道。

Clearing his throat, Lucius looked up from the transcript he was reading at his son. Oblivious, Draco was swearing under his breath at Weasley's uncooperative Wheezebox recording, the taps of his wand becoming increasingly irate.
清了清嗓子，卢修斯从他正在阅读的笔录中抬起头来，看着他的儿子。德拉科忘乎所以，他对韦斯莱不合作的喘息器录音低声咒骂，他的魔杖敲击声变得越来越愤怒。

“If I have to listen to Weasley’s stupid voice grunt out the same stupid sentence one more time I swear I’m going to –”
“如果我必须再听一次韦斯莱的愚蠢声音咕哝着同样的愚蠢句子，我发誓我会——”

“Draco,” Lucius interrupted, “perhaps you'd like to help me in my dealings with the estate manager going forward. Learn how the relationship works.”
“德拉科，”卢修斯打断道，“也许你以后想帮我和庄园经理打交道。了解这种关系是如何运作的。

The Wheezebox suddenly of absolutely no interest to him, Draco allowed his wand hand to fall and turned his face up to look at his father. “Really?”
突然间，他对喘息盒完全不感兴趣了，德拉科任由他的魔杖手掉下来，抬起脸看着他的父亲。“真的吗？”

“I think it's the kind of thing you ought to be prepared to deal with when I'm not here one day.” 
“我认为这是我有一天不在的时候你应该准备好处理的事情。”

Draco’s face fell with a comical swiftness. “Bit grim, father.”
德拉科的脸色滑稽地迅速地沉了下来。“有点严峻，爸爸。”

Tipping his head, Lucius acknowledged the point before saying, “But inevitable.” 
卢修斯歪着头承认了这一点，然后说：“但不可避免。

Brow furrowed, Draco dropped his eyes to the desk between them and nodded. 
德拉科皱起眉头，将目光落在他们之间的桌子上，点了点头。

“Next week,” Lucius said quietly, returning to his reading. “We can begin then. We might as well get a start on it before the baby arrives and consumes your every waking moment.”
“下周，”卢修斯轻声说，继续他的阅读。“那我们就可以开始了。我们不妨在婴儿到来之前就开始，并消耗你醒着的每一刻。

“Perhaps what you’re telling yourself is the convenient lie.” Lucius’ head jerked up as he heard his own voice, cold and angry, coming from the Wheezebox before Draco. “A way to make yourself feel better about your innate inferiority.”
“也许你告诉自己的是方便的谎言。”卢修斯猛地抬起头，因为他听到自己的声音，冰冷而愤怒，从德拉科面前的喘息箱里传来。“一种让自己对自己天生的自卑感觉更好的方法。”

An angry huff signalled Hermione. “Superiority and inferiority aren’t innate. They’re…self-asserted and projected. That you would suggest otherwise shows how disconnected from reality you are; how fully you bought into the lie. It goes some way to explaining—to me at least—why you find it so easy to hate.”
赫敏生气地打了个手势。“优越和自卑不是与生俱来的。他们是......自我断言和投影。你不这么说表明你与现实有多么脱节;你是多么完全地相信了这个谎言。这在某种程度上解释了——至少对我而言——为什么你觉得讨厌这么容易。

The conversation was stopped rather abruptly when a panicked Draco rapped his wand against the device. “Sorry,” he said. “I didn’t mean –”
当惊慌失措的德拉科用魔杖敲击设备时，谈话突然停止了。“对不起，”他说。“我不是说——”

“I don’t believe that was a section that Hermione had underlined, Draco,” Lucius said lightly, lifting an eyebrow. 
“我不相信那是赫敏强调的那一节，德拉科，”卢修斯轻轻地说，扬起了一道眉毛。

Rubbing a hand awkwardly against the back of his neck, Draco said, “They’re temperamental these things. The magic is finicky.”
一只手尴尬地在他的后颈上摩擦着，Draco说，“他们这些东西很喜怒无常。魔法是挑剔的。

Lucius accepted the excuse with a hum. It was odd to hear himself and Hermione speaking to one another with such clear dislike. They weren’t exactly a whisper-sweet-nothings pair but there was certainly more warmth to their jabs these days.
卢修斯哼哼一声接受了这个借口。听到他和赫敏以如此明显的厌恶互相交谈，真是奇怪。他们并不完全是一对低语甜言蜜语的搭档，但这些天他们的刺拳肯定更温暖。

“She didn’t really hold back, did she?” Draco asked, eyebrows raised as he rolled his wand under his palm on the desk.
“她并没有真的退缩，对吧？”德拉科问道，他扬起眉毛，将魔杖在桌子上的手掌下滚动。

“And she said a good deal more than that,” Lucius said tiredly. “I assure you.”
“而且她说的还多很多，”卢修斯疲惫地说。“我向你保证。”

“You didn’t mind?”
“你不介意吗？”

Sighing, Lucius set down the parchment he was holding and met his bewildered son's gaze. “I minded a great deal.”
卢修斯叹了口气，放下手里的羊皮纸，与他困惑的儿子的目光相遇。“我非常介意。”

Raising his eyebrows again, Draco said, “And yet…”
Draco再次扬起眉毛，说道，“然而......”

“And yet,” Lucius said, clearly more resigned to his bemusement than his son.
“可是，”卢修斯说，显然比他的儿子更愿意接受他的困惑。

There was a pause and then Draco asked, "Doesn't it bother you? That she's my age? Or is that the appeal?"
停顿了一下，然后德拉科问道，“你不觉得吗？她和我一样大？或者这就是吸引力？

Lucius frowned slightly at the implication he might be the kind of man who could be so easily won over by a lithe figure and an unlined face. "She often has the temperament of a wizened crone, Draco; it's easy to forget her youth."
卢修斯微微皱起眉头，暗示他可能是那种可以如此轻易地被轻盈的身材和毫无线条的脸所征服的人。“她经常有个干瘪的老婆婆的气质，德拉科;很容易忘记她的青春。

"Well, do you think your age bothers her?"
“嗯，你觉得你的年龄让她感到困扰吗？”

"It certainly doesn't seem to," Lucius said, his voice light but slightly suggestive for that.
“当然不是，”卢修斯说，他的声音很轻，但略带暗示。

Draco cringed, his tongue poking out. "Don't ask questions if you don't want the answers," Lucius chided. 
德拉科畏缩着，他的舌头伸了出来。“如果你不想得到答案，就不要问问题，”Lucius 斥责道。

He supposed he couldn't blame Draco – he wanted to know absolutely nothing about his son's intimacies with Astoria, after all.
他觉得他不能怪德拉科——毕竟，他绝对不想知道他儿子和阿斯托利亚的亲密关系。

"Sorry," Draco mumbled, having the grace to look somewhat guilty. "It's a sort of morbid fascination, I guess. To go from mooning over Ron Weasley for years to you is…a journey."
“对不起，”德拉科喃喃自语，带着些许内疚的神情。“我猜，这是一种病态的迷恋。从多年来对罗恩·韦斯莱的痴迷到你......一段旅程。

It was Lucius' turn to cringe. "Don't remind me. Perhaps we can consider this relationship one of mutual personal growth."
轮到卢修斯畏缩了。“别提醒我。也许我们可以将这种关系视为一种相互的个人成长。

"Weasley is single again, I heard," Draco said, his voice sly. "Worried?"
“我听说韦斯莱又单身了，”德拉科说，他的声音狡猾。“担心吗？”

With a narrow-eyed sneer at his son, Lucius picked up his parchment again and shook it out. "If I ever have reason to feel threatened by a Weasley you have my permission to euthanise me."
卢修斯眯起眼睛对儿子冷笑，再次拿起他的羊皮纸，把它抖了出来。“如果我有理由感到受到韦斯莱的威胁，你得我允许你对我实施安乐死。”

Rolling his eyes in response to Draco's raucous laugh, Lucius said, "Do hurry with that, Draco. She won't stay away for long and I want these things returned to their rightful places before she can notice."
卢修斯对德拉科的喧闹笑声翻了个白眼，说道，“快点，德拉科。她不会离开太久，我希望这些东西在她注意到之前就回到它们应有的地方。

The knock on his study door was so soft Lucius almost didn’t hear it and, even when he did, it was so late that he was sure he must have imagined it. Still, he turned in his seat on the sofa to look over its back just in time to see Hermione sidle into the room. 
敲门声是如此轻柔，卢修斯几乎没听到，即使他听到了，也已经太晚了，他确信自己一定是想象出来的。尽管如此，他还是在沙发上的座位上转过身来，从沙发的背上看了看，正好看到赫敏懒洋洋地走进了房间。

The light from the fire was just strong enough to reach her, casting a soft glow across her face in the otherwise dark room. Setting his book aside, Lucius stayed silent as she moved across the room and around the sofa to stand in front of him. There was something about the entire scene that felt like a dream. That only intensified when she closed the space between them and placed her knees on either side of his thighs to lower herself into his lap in a straddle. She was surprisingly graceful in her movements, careful and slow.
火光刚好强到可以打到她身上，在原本黑暗的房间里为她的脸投下柔和的光芒。卢修斯把书放在一边，沉默不语，她穿过房间，绕过沙发，站在他面前。整个场景感觉就像一场梦。当她拉近他们之间的空间，将膝盖放在他的大腿两侧，跨坐在他的腿上时，这种情况变得更加严重。她的动作出奇地优雅，小心翼翼，速度缓慢。

Instinctively, Lucius brought his hands to her waist to hold her as she lowered her face towards his and wrapped her arms around him. Against his expectations, she didn’t kiss him. Instead she settled further into him and brought her head to his shoulder, burying her face into the crook of his neck. 
本能地，卢修斯将双手放在她的腰上抱住她，而她则低下脸朝向他，搂住他。出乎他意料的是，她没有吻他。相反，她进一步地靠在他身上，把头靠在他的肩膀上，把脸埋进他的脖子弯里。

After a moment of hesitation, Lucius slid his arms further around her waist and he held her quietly, looking past the dark mass of her curls into the flickering fire. 
犹豫了片刻后，卢修斯将手臂进一步搂住了她的腰，他静静地抱着她，目光越过她黑色的卷发，望向摇曳的火焰。

“I’m still a bit annoyed at you,” she said, her voice muffled into his shoulder. 
“我还是对你有点生气，”她说，她的声音压在他的肩膀上。

A short laugh escaped Lucius as he tried to stop his shoulders shaking too much beneath her. “I much prefer this method of expressing your annoyance.”
卢修斯发出一阵短促的笑声，他试图阻止自己的肩膀在她身下颤抖得太厉害。“我更喜欢用这种方式来表达你的不满。”

She squeezed her knees against him as an alternative to telling him to ‘shut up’ and lifted her head to look him in the face. “Are you still planning to withdraw your interviews?”
她用膝盖抵住他，而不是告诉他“闭嘴”，然后抬起头看着他的脸。“你还打算撤回你的采访吗？”

“No,” he said, with a slight shake of his head. “No, I’m not.”
“不，”他说，微微摇了摇头。“不，我不是。”

Her exhale of relief was soft but she was close enough to him that he felt it. “You think I can do it, then?”
她松了一口气，但她离他足够近，他能感觉到。“那么，你觉得我能做到吗？”

“I think it would be a mistake for me to make it harder for you to try.”
“我认为，如果让你更难尝试，那对我来说就是个错误。”

Her responding smile was not beaming – what he said didn’t deserve that – but it was enough to crease the corners of her eyes. It would have been easy, then, he realised, to tell her about the event. But he still stood by what he’d told Draco – she would find a way to stop it and he was sure she needed it.
她回应的笑容并不灿烂——他说的话不值得——但这足以让她的眼角皱起来。那么，他意识到，告诉她这件事本来很容易。但他仍然坚持他对德拉科说的话——她会想办法阻止它，而且他确信她需要它。

So, instead, he said, “Hermione, Draco knows.”
所以，他反而说，“赫敏，德拉科知道。

Her body seemed to solidify under his hands and her eyes flicked up to the door behind him, as though she was expecting to see Draco standing at it watching them. Feeling her shift, like she might get off him, Lucius held her tighter around her waist. 
她的身体似乎在他的手下凝固了，她的眼睛瞥向他身后的门，仿佛她期待着看到德拉科站在门口看着他们。感觉到她的移动，就像她可能会从他身上下来一样，卢修斯把她搂得更紧了。

“You told him?” she asked, with something like an accusation in her voice that made him bristle.
“你告诉他的？”她问道，声音里带着一种让他生气的指责。

“I didn’t really have to,” Lucius said, his brows lowering. “He asked questions that told me he already knew something was happening. I wasn’t going to lie to him more. Though I can assure you it won’t leave the manor.”
“我真的不必这样做，”卢修斯说，他的眉毛低垂着。“他提出的问题告诉我，他已经知道发生了什么事情。我不打算再对他撒谎了。不过我可以向你保证，它不会离开庄园。

“What did he say?” she asked, her voice hushed.
“他说了什么？” 她小声问道。

It was then that Lucius realised she hadn’t been accusing him of anything underhanded – she was caught off guard and worried . Worried about the feelings of his son. That made him soften fractionally because hadn’t he been worried about the exact same thing?
就在那时，卢修斯意识到她并没有指责他任何卑鄙的事情——她措手不及，很担心。担心儿子的感受。这让他稍微软化了一点，因为他不是一直担心同样的事情吗？

“He was surprised. Confused. Perhaps a touch annoyed.” Hermione’s gaze lowered guiltily with every word. “But understanding.” And then it flicked up to meet his. 
“他很惊讶。困惑。也许有点生气。赫敏的每一个字都愧疚地低下了目光。“但要理解。”然后它弹了起来，碰到了他的。

“Understanding?”
“明白了吗？”

“Yes.” Lucius paused, deliberating how much more to say. “He thinks I seem happier.”
“是的。”卢修斯停顿了一下，考虑着还能说多少。“他觉得我看起来更快乐。”

At that, Hermione’s hands trailed from his shoulders and down onto his shirt where she toyed with the buttons. Her eyes were fixed on what she was doing, rather than on his face. “Are you?”
这时，赫敏的手从他的肩膀滑到他的衬衫上，她在那里玩弄着纽扣。她的眼睛盯着她在做什么，而不是他的脸。“你是吗？”

Bringing his hands away from her waist, Lucius placed them over hers and stilled her fidgeting. Her eyes stayed fixed on the point where her hands were now encased by his own. “I might well be,” he said. 
卢修斯将手从她的腰上移开，放在她的手上，平息了她坐立不安。她的眼睛一直盯着她的手现在被他自己的手包裹住的地方。“我很可能是，”他说。

Hermione’s nod was subtle. “Well, I’m glad,” she murmured. 
赫敏的点头很微妙。“嗯，我很高兴，”她喃喃自语。

“Do expect him to make some ill-conceived attempts at humour with regards to the matter,” Lucius added with an irked frown. “It appears he has decided he can laugh his way through it.”
“我估计他会在这件事上做出一些考虑不周的幽默尝试，”卢修斯恼怒地皱着眉头补充道。“看来他已经决定可以笑着度过难关。”

Head jerking up, Hermione looked at him with wide eyes and then laughed aloud. “What did he say?”
赫敏猛地抬起头，睁大眼睛看着他，然后大声笑了起来。“他说了什么？”

“I’m not even going to tell you,” Lucius grumbled. “But do not encourage him if he tries it with you.”
“我什至不打算告诉你，”卢修斯抱怨道。“但是，如果他和你一起尝试，就不要鼓励他。”

“Wouldn’t dream of it,” she said, lowering her head to capture his lips in a soft kiss. Starting at her knees, Lucius ran his hands up her bare thighs, stopping just short of the hem of her floaty cotton skirt. Her wardrobe gave him an appreciation for summer that he’d never had before. Responding to his touch, she ground into him, spreading her knees wider to lower herself. 
“做梦都想不到，”她说，低下头，用一个温柔的吻抓住他的嘴唇。从她的膝盖开始，卢修斯的手顺着她裸露的大腿滑上去，停在她飘逸的棉质裙子的下摆附近。她的衣橱让他对夏天产生了前所未有的欣赏。她对他的触碰做出回应，贴在他身上，张开膝盖以降低自己。

“Can I take this to mean that you’re not still annoyed?” he asked when she drew back from him, his voice low. 
“我能不能把这理解为你还不生气呢？”当她从他身边退开时，他问道，声音很低。

“Mmm, that depends,” she said, her face close enough to his that her breath brushed over his lips. “Are you going to attempt to disguise defeatist cynicism as wisdom at any point this evening?”
“嗯，那要看情况，”她说，她的脸离他很近，以至于她的呼吸擦过他的嘴唇。“你打算在今晚的任何时候都试图将失败主义的犬儒主义伪装成智慧吗？”

Lucius’ smile flattened into a thin-lipped line. “Clearly you’ve decided to attempt to annoy me instead.”
卢修斯的笑容变得平淡无奇。“显然你决定试图惹我生气。”

“I’ll be honest, Lucius, I’m surprised you’re not annoyed at me already. I'll own that I wasn’t exactly gentle with my words.”
“老实说，卢修斯，我很惊讶你还没有对我生气。我得承认，我说话并不完全温柔。

Actually, now that she reminded him, he was surprised he wasn’t more annoyed too but he replied, “I’m a man of infinite patience.” 
事实上，既然她提醒了他，他很惊讶自己并没有更生气，但他回答说：“我是一个有无限耐心的人。

“You’re a man who’s very good at pretending he has infinite patience. There’s a difference.”
“你是个很擅长假装自己有无限耐心的人。这是有区别的。

“Then why do you insist on testing it, hm?” he asked, his hand sliding further up her thigh and under her skirt until it came to rest where her thighs met her hips. “You must get some perverse enjoyment out of it.” His thumb skimmed over her through her knickers and she swallowed, her hips shifting forward. Lucius smirked at her immediate response and, using his thumb, worked his way under the elastic of her knickers. When his thumb brushed directly against her, he found her slick. “I’m clearly correct.”
“那你为什么坚持要测试它，嗯？”他问道，他的手进一步滑过她的大腿，滑到她的裙子下面，直到停在她的大腿与臀部相接的地方。“你得从中得到一些的乐趣。”他的拇指隔着她的内裤掠过她，她咽了口口水，她的臀部向前移动。卢修斯对她的立即反应傻笑，用拇指在她短裤的松紧带下摸索。当他的拇指直接擦过她时，他发现她很光滑。“我显然是对的。”

Hermione could do nothing but mumble incoherently, her eyes fluttering closed and her hips pressing forward, desperate to keep contact with the gentle stroking of his thumb. 
赫敏什么也做不了，只能语无伦次地喃喃自语，她的眼睛颤抖着闭上，臀部向前挤压，不顾一切地与他拇指的温柔抚摸保持接触。

“I’m sure there’s some way we can ease our frustrations with one another, Hermione.” Lucius moved his thumb up to start rubbing languid circles around her clit. “A mutually beneficial arrangement?”
“我敢肯定，我们有一些方法可以缓解彼此的挫败感，赫敏。”卢修斯抬起拇指，开始在她的阴蒂周围慵懒地打圈。“互惠互利的安排？”

A vigorous nod and a quiet “uh huh” was the only reply he got and it made him smile. He so enjoyed her like this – pliant, receptive. He was well aware that he only enjoyed it as much as he did because she was usually so unyielding in all other aspects. He was fairly certain that only he got to see this side of Hermione Granger and that made it all the more precious.
他用力地点头和轻声的“嗯嗯”是他得到的唯一回答，这让他露出了笑容。他像这样享受她——柔顺、善于接受。他很清楚，他只是因为她通常在所有其他方面都如此不屈不挠。他相当确定，只有他才能看到赫敏·格兰杰的这一面，这让它变得更加珍贵。

With his free hand, he tugged at the waist of her shapeless t-shirt, making her eyes flutter open inquisitively. Her eyelids were heavier than they had been, he noticed. “Why don’t we take this off,” he suggested.
他用空出来的手拉扯着她不定型的T恤的腰部，让她好奇地睁大了眼睛。他注意到，她的眼睑比以前更沉重了。“我们为什么不把它取下来，”他建议道。

She did it immediately, pulling the t-shirt over her head to reveal an insubstantial, lacy bralette. Lucius lifted his hand to cup her breast, brushing a gentle thumb over the erect nipple that was just visible through the material. “This next,” he said, twanging the elastic strap.
她立即照做了，把 T 恤拉到头上，露出一件不起眼的蕾丝文胸。卢修斯抬起手托住她的乳房，用拇指轻轻抚摸着透过材料可以看到的勃起的。“接下来这个，”他说，一边拨动松紧带。

A small frown creased Hermione’s brow but she obliged him and pulled the bralette over her head, dropping it to the floor by the sofa with her t-shirt. “This is feeling less mutually beneficial by the second,” she said, sceptically eyeing his still completely clothed form. 
赫敏皱起了眉头，但她还是答应了他，把文胸拉过头顶，把它和她的T恤一起丢在沙发旁的地板上。“这感觉对双方都不太友好了，”她说，怀疑地看着他仍然穿着衣服的身影。

Lucius’ only response was to speed up the movement of his thumb on her clit and lean forward to run kisses up the smooth skin of her abdomen. Any further complaint from Hermione was forgotten and replaced by a gratifying whimper. His free hand spanned her back near her waist and he pressed on it to bring her even closer to him, the spread of her knees on either side of him widening further. 
卢修斯唯一的反应是加快拇指在她阴蒂上的移动，身体前倾，在她腹部光滑的皮肤上亲吻。赫敏的任何进一步抱怨都被遗忘了，取而代之的是令人满意的呜咽。他空出来的手跨过她的腰部，他按压着它，让她离他更近，她在他两侧的膝盖进一步扩大。

Her breathing was speeding up as his kisses moved onto her breast and as he grazed his teeth over her nipple he heard a very soft, helpless noise in the back of her throat. With an intrigued glance upwards, Lucius bit down on it, drawing a surprised yelp from Hermione. He immediately lathed the area with his tongue and her head dropped back as her hips rolled towards his hand. 
当他的吻移到她的乳房上时，她的呼吸加快了，当他用牙齿擦过她的时，他听到她的喉咙后部传来了非常轻柔、无助的声音。卢修斯好奇地向上看了一眼，咬住了它，引来了赫敏惊讶的叫声。他立即用舌头舔了这个区域，当她的臀部向他的手滚动时，她的头向后仰。

Lucius could feel her beginning to grind against the hardness developing in his trousers and he encouraged her closer as he moved his attention to her other breast to give it the same treatment. 
卢修斯能感觉到她开始磨蹭他裤子里越来越硬的衣服，他鼓励她靠近，同时将注意力转移到她的另一只乳房上，给它同样的治疗。

Though he was beginning to feel a strain in his hand, Lucius kept rolling over her clit in steady, increasingly tight circles. He could tell from the way her hands had come back to grip his legs behind her that she was growing close. While he wanted nothing more than to bury himself inside of her, he rather hoped that she would remember his generosity from this moment when he sprung his planned event on her and not immediately jump to curses and hexes. 
虽然他开始感到手部紧张，但卢修斯还是继续在她的阴蒂上滚动，以稳定、越来越紧的圆圈。他可以从她的手回头抓住他双腿的样子看出她越来越近了。虽然他只想把自己埋在她里面，但他宁愿她能记住他的慷慨，从他把他计划好的事情推向她的那一刻起，而不是立即跳到诅咒和咒语中。

“You’ve been working so hard, Hermione, hm?” he said, his voice muffled into her skin as he continued to press kisses over her. “You deserve this. Just let it go.”
“你这么辛苦了，赫敏，嗯？”他说，他的声音在她的皮肤上低沉，继续在她身上亲吻。“你活该。就让它走吧。

A soft groan escaped him as she rubbed against him again and he rewarded her by increasing his pressure and speed. This, he knew, would do it. Sure enough, above him, her whole body stilled and stiffened. Even her breathing seemed to stop. Then, with a choked noise that he could have mistaken for a sob, life rushed back into her as she came with a shudder.
当她再次摩擦他时，他发出了一声轻柔的呻吟，他通过增加压力和速度来奖励她。他知道，这样就能做到。果然，在他的上方，她的整个身体静止了下来，僵硬了起来。甚至她的呼吸似乎也停止了。然后，随着一声哽咽的声音，他可能会误以为是啜泣，当她带着战栗走来时，生命又涌回了她的体内。

As she returned to him from whatever plane of pleasure she had been on, she lowered her head and captured his lips in a kiss before moving along his jaw. “Missed you,” she murmured against his ear, her breath hot and her voice unusually hoarse.
当她从她所处的任何快乐时空回到他身边时，她低下头，吻住了他的嘴唇，然后沿着他的下巴移动。“想你了，”她在他耳边喃喃自语，呼吸炙热，声音异常嘶哑。

He could have teased her for that. It’d only been a couple of days since they’d last been together. Had she truly missed him or had she missed coming on his fingers? But he found that the barb he had half-formed died on his tongue because he liked hearing her say it. Why discourage her?
他本可以为此取笑她。距离他们上次在一起才几天。她是真的想念他，还是想念他指着他来？可是他发现，他半生不定的倒钩在他的舌头上死了，因为他喜欢听她说这句话。为什么要让她气馁呢？

Her hands moved to his waistband and, with great care, she undid his trousers to ease his hardness into the open between them. It wasn’t going to take much, he knew, and when she began to work him in her hand, he stopped her with a shake of his head. Understanding lighting her face, Hermione shuffled forward on her knees and, lifting herself up, positioned herself above him while pulling her knickers to the side again.
她的手移到他的腰带上，小心翼翼地解开他的裤子，让他的坚硬缓和地进入裤子之间的空隙。他知道这不会花太多时间，当她开始用手抚摸他时，他摇了摇头阻止了她。赫敏明白了她的脸，跪在地上蹒跚前行，站起来，把自己放在他上方，同时又把她的短裤拉到一边。

Lucius hissed a curse when the wet heat of her engorged walls began to engulf him, his mind going blank as the sheer pleasure of the sensation overtook him. Slowly, using her knees, she lifted herself from him and then dropped back down with a roll of her hips, taking all of him effortlessly. He gripped at her hips, tight enough that her skin bulged through the gaps in his fingers.
当她充血的墙壁湿热开始吞噬他时，卢修斯发出了咒骂的嘶嘶声，当这种感觉的纯粹快感占据了他时，他的大脑一片空白。她慢慢地用膝盖从他身上抬起，然后用臀部的滚动又落下，毫不费力地把他整个人都抱住了。他紧紧地抓住她的臀部，以至于她的皮肤从他手指的缝隙中凸出。

He had thought she might get some enjoyment out of being on top – the control would appeal to her – but he had not expected to enjoy it as much himself. Anchoring her hands into the sofa behind his head, she bounced herself in his lap, completely losing herself to whatever pleasure she was feeling. Her skin practically glowed in the warm light of the room, her flushed chest moving hypnotically.
他曾以为她可能会从上面得到一些乐趣——这种控制会吸引她——但他没想到自己也会这么享受。她把手固定在他脑后的沙发上，在他的腿上弹跳，完全沉浸在她所感受到的任何快感中。她的皮肤在房间温暖的灯光下几乎闪闪发光，她通红的胸膛催眠般地移动。

After allowing her to establish her rhythm, he began to lift his lips up to meet her while pulling her down, drawing a grateful whine from somewhere deep in her throat.
在让她建立自己的节奏后，他开始抬起嘴唇迎接她，同时将她拉下，从她喉咙深处发出感激的呻吟。

He had been slightly annoyed at her. He had. She had reminded him of that. But this more than made up for it. That didn’t, however, stop him sliding a hand up into her curls and tugging a little more sharply than he usually would so that her head fell back. The noise she made suggested she didn’t mind in the least.
他对她有点生气。他有。她提醒了他这一点。但这足以弥补这一点。然而，这并没有阻止他将一只手滑入她的卷发中，比平时更猛烈地拉扯，使她的头向后仰。她发出的声音表明她一点也不介意。

In fact, as he wound her hair around his fingers to hold her tighter, she ground against him until he felt the tell-tale flutter of her approaching orgasm. 
事实上，当他把她的头发缠在他的手指上，把她抱得更紧时，她靠在他身上，直到他感觉到她即将达到高潮的明显颤动。

“Lucius.” 
“卢修斯。”

His name spilled over her lips, dripping with gratitude as she tightened around him, her orgasm rolling through her and squeezing him. With an upward jerk of his hips and a groan, he followed suit, hooking an arm around her waist to pull her against him as he spilled himself inside her.
他的名字洒在她的嘴唇上，当她紧紧地搂着他时，他滴落着感激之情，她的高潮在她身上滚动，挤压着他。随着臀部向上的抽搐和呻吟，他也跟着这样做，用一只手臂勾住她的腰，把她拉到他身上，同时把自己洒进了她的体内。

Without the distraction of sex, their position became less comfortable. The heat in the room that arose from a combination of the fire, the warm July night and their bodies became stifling.
没有了性的干扰，他们的姿势变得不那么舒服了。房间里的热量由火、温暖的七月夜晚和他们的身体共同产生，变得令人窒息。

It wasn’t long before she slid from his lap and flopped onto the sofa on her back, knees bent and parted. She made quite a sight with her top half exposed, her skirt hiked up and her thighs glistening around where her knickers had just about sprung back into place. He didn’t even mind that she still had her shoes on and that their soles were against the side of his thigh.
没过多久，她就从他的腿上滑了下来，仰面瘫倒在沙发上，膝盖弯曲分开。她露出上半身，裙子掀起，大腿在短裤刚要弹回原位的地方闪闪发光。他甚至不介意她还穿着鞋子，鞋子的鞋底贴在他的大腿侧面。

Reaching out, he ran a finger up the damp cotton seam, grinning as she squirmed. “I’ll move in a minute,” she mumbled with a sleepy contentment, her eyes closed. “I promise.”
他伸出手，用一根手指滑过潮湿的棉缝，在她蠕动时咧嘴一笑。“我一会儿就走，”她闭上眼睛，睡眼惺忪地喃喃自语。“我保证。”

He found he had no intention of reminding her when the minute passed.
他发现他无意在一分钟过去时提醒她。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Draco is a little shit and I love him for it. Slightly ahead of schedule with this update but that's because I'm going away for a couple of weeks and I wanted to get something out before then! When I'm back: The Event! Eeep. Thanks for continuing to be so kind about this story x
德拉科是个小狗屎，我爱他。这次更新稍微提前了一点，但那是因为我要离开几周，我想在那之前拿出一些东西！当我回来时：活动！哎呀。感谢您继续对这个故事如此友好 x

Chapter 32
第三十二章Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾August 7th
8月7日

Huffing out a tired sigh, Hermione wiped the back of her forearm across her tired eyes and then used the back of her hand to wipe some sweat from her upper lip. It was late afternoon and though it was uncomfortably warm outside and inside, her flat had desperately needed cleaning. 
赫敏疲惫地叹了口气，用前臂背擦了擦疲惫的眼睛，然后用手背擦了擦上唇上的汗水。当时是傍晚，虽然外面和里面都温暖得令人不舒服，但她的公寓急需打扫。

Dropping her cloth in the sink, she surveyed her now sparkling kitchen with some satisfaction. It had been too long since she’d done any real housework without magic and though she hated doing it, she loved it when it was done. Ron had always thought her silly for insisting that magic was no replacement for good old-fashioned elbow grease but Hermione was sure that sometimes her charms sensed her deep-seated dislike of cleaning and were lazy as a result. 
她把布丢进水槽里，满意地打量着她现在闪闪发光的厨房。她已经很久没有做过任何没有魔法的真正家务活了，虽然她讨厌做这件事，但她喜欢它完成的时候。罗恩一直认为她坚持认为魔法不能替代老式的肘部油脂，这很愚蠢，但赫敏确信，有时她的魅力会察觉到她根深蒂固的对清洁的厌恶，因此变得懒惰。

Happily contemplating a chilled glass of white wine and a book, Hermione padded out of her kitchen, crossed her hall, and abruptly halted when she entered her living room. Draco Malfoy was standing in front of the fire and, based on the way he was dusting himself off, he’d just arrived. 
赫敏高兴地想着一杯冰镇的白葡萄酒和一本书，走出厨房，穿过她的走廊，当她走进客厅时突然停了下来。德拉科·马尔福站在火堆前，根据他掸去身上灰尘的样子，他才刚到。

Malfoy looked up when he spied Hermione floating in the doorway and his face immediately dropped into an expression of what Hermione could only describe as mild horror. 
当马尔福发现赫敏漂浮在门口时，他抬起头来，他的脸立刻陷入了赫敏只能用轻微恐惧来形容的表情。

“Granger,” he said slowly, his gaze travelling from her hair in its messy bun, down over her baggy stained t-shirt, pyjama shorts and bare legs. “ What –”
“格兰杰，”他缓缓地说，他的目光从她凌乱的发髻上移开，落在她宽松的、沾满污渍的T恤、睡衣短裤和光露的双腿上。“什么——”

“I’m cleaning, Malfoy,” Hermione said, defensively crossing her arms over her chest as her brow dropped into a deep frown. 
“我在打扫卫生，马尔福，”赫敏说，一边防御性地将双臂交叉在胸前，一边皱起眉头。

“I can only assume you’re not including yourself in that process.” His eyes narrowed, honing in on a particularly large stain on her t-shirt from when the raspberry jam had fallen out of the fridge and straight onto her. 
“我只能假设你没有把自己包括在那个过程中。”他眯起眼睛，盯着她T恤上一个特别大的污渍，那是覆盆子果酱从冰箱里掉出来直接落到她身上留下的。

“Well, I wasn’t expecting visitors, was I?" Hermione snapped, uncrossing her arms to rub the stain. "What do you want?”
“嗯，我没想到会有访客来，对吧？”赫敏厉声说，松开双臂擦去污渍。“你想要什么？”

It was then that Hermione took in Malfoy’s comparatively smart outfit, comprising all-black dress robes and shining polished shoes. Rubbing her bare feet self-consciously together, she determinedly met his gaze. 
就在那时，赫敏穿上了马尔福相对时髦的衣服，包括全黑的礼服长袍和闪闪发光的抛光鞋。她不自觉地揉搓着赤脚，坚定地与他的目光相遇。

“I’ve come to pick you up," he said. "And I’m thanking Merlin that I made sure I was early enough to get you ready.”
“我是来接你的，”他说。“我要感谢梅林，我确保我足够早地让你做好准备。”

“Pick me up?” All of Hermione’s self-consciousness was forgotten in the face of her overwhelming surprise and curiosity. “What for? We haven’t planned anything.”
“接我？”赫敏所有的自我意识在她压倒性的惊讶和好奇面前都被遗忘了。“干什么？我们还没有计划任何事情。

“No, we haven’t,” Draco agreed, striding across the room towards her. “It’s a surprise.”
“不，我们还没有，”德拉科同意道，大步穿过房间向她走来。“真是个惊喜。”

Placing his hands on Hermione’s shoulders, he turned her towards the hall and forcefully guided her into it. “Malfoy!” she protested, wriggling as he kept his hands on her shoulders to direct her towards her bathroom. Since when did Malfoy touch her? When had they gotten that comfortable? His actions reminded her so strongly of Letty that she wondered who had learned it from who.
他把手放在赫敏的肩膀上，把她转向大厅，用力地引导她进去。“马尔福！”她抗议道，当他把手放在她的肩膀上，引导她走向她的浴室时，他扭动着身体。马尔福从什么时候开始碰她了？他们什么时候变得这么舒服了？他的行为使她强烈地想起了莱蒂，以至于她想知道是谁从谁那里学到的。

“Shower, Granger,” he ordered. “Now.”
“洗澡，格兰杰，”他命令道。“现在。”

Twisting out of his hold, Hermione turned to face him, now just outside of her bathroom, and impatiently swiped a fallen curl from her face. “I hate surprises, Malfoy. And I won’t be doing anything until you tell me exactly what –”
赫敏挣脱了他的束缚，转过身来面对他，现在就在她的浴室外面，不耐烦地擦掉了她脸上掉落的卷发。“我讨厌惊喜，马尔福。而且我什么都不会做，除非你告诉我具体是什么——”

“It’s for my father, Granger,” he said, cutting her off. “Wouldn’t want to disappoint him would you?”
“这是给我爸爸的，格兰杰，”他说，打断了她的话。“你不想让他失望吧？”

One of Malfoy’s pale brows arched as his eyes burned challengingly into Hermione’s. Draco knows, Hermione . Pressing her lips into a thin line, her cheeks burning with embarrassment, Hermione turned and entered the bathroom without another word rather than engage in any further discussion with Draco. 
马尔福苍白的眉毛弯了起来，他的眼睛挑衅地炙烤着赫敏的眼睛。 德拉科知道，赫敏。赫敏把嘴唇抿成一条细线，脸颊尴尬地燃烧着，她转身走进了浴室，没有再说一句话，也没有和德拉科进行任何进一步的讨论。

“Good girl,” Draco called patronisingly through the wood as she closed the door with a thud . “And wash that bloody mop you call hair.”
“好姑娘，”德拉科在树林里居高临下地喊道，她砰的一声关上了门。“然后洗掉你叫做头发的那把血淋淋的拖把。”

Grumbling, Hermione leaned her back against the door and glared at the shower like it was the one ordering her around.
赫敏抱怨着，背靠在门上，瞪着淋浴间，仿佛是那个命令她的人。

She was going to need to learn to discuss her and Lucius’ relationship with Draco so that he couldn’t lord it over her and use it to order her around. However, right at that moment, she decided she’d rather have a shower. There was no point in having that discussion while feeling dirtier than she had to. 
她需要学会讨论她和卢修斯与德拉科的关系，这样他就不能支配她，用它来命令她。然而，就在那一刻，她决定她宁愿洗个澡。在感觉比她必须的更肮脏的情况下进行这种讨论是没有意义的。

When Hermione exited the bathroom in a cloud of steam, water dripping from her hair onto the wooden floor of her hallway, there was no Draco in sight. Relieved, she looked left and right and, assuming he’d returned to the living room, half ran into her bedroom and closed the door. 
当赫敏在一团蒸汽中走出浴室时，水从她的头发上滴落到走廊的木地板上，看不到德拉科。她松了一口气，左右看了看，以为他已经回到了客厅，半跑进她的卧室，关上了门。

Turning back into the room, she yelped, clutching her towel tight against her chest when she found Draco lying horizontally across her bed. He jolted slightly at the noise and raised his head to look up at her, an annoyed expression on his face. 
她转身回到房间里，大喊着，当她发现德拉科横躺在她的床上时，她把毛巾紧紧地攥在胸前。他被这声音微微震动，抬起头看着她，脸上露出恼怒的表情。

“Malfoy, what are you doing in here?” she cried, pulling the towel as tightly as she could around herself and half turning away from him. “Get out!”
“马尔福，你在这儿干什么？”她喊道，尽可能地把毛巾紧紧地拽在自己身上，半转身离开他。“滚出去！”

“Oh, come off it, Granger,” Draco said reprovingly, lifting his upper body so that he could lean on his elbows to look at her while his legs dangled over the edge of the bed. “We both know I’m not the Malfoy that’s interested in whatever is happening under there.”
“哦，吧，格兰杰，”德拉科责备地说，抬起他的上半身，这样他就可以靠在胳膊肘上看着她，同时他的腿悬在床沿上。“我们都知道我不是那个对下面发生的任何事情感兴趣的马尔福。”

His eyes flicked down to her towel and quickly back up to her face, making Hermione blush furiously. “The polite thing to do would have been to wait in the living room,” she said through gritted teeth. 
他的眼睛向下扫向她的毛巾，然后迅速回到她的脸上，这让赫敏气得脸红了。“礼貌的做法是在客厅里等着，”她咬牙切齿地说。

Pushing out his lower lip, eyes flicking upwards, Draco tilted his head in acknowledgement of the point. “True,” he said. “Just as the polite thing to do would have been to give your friend a heads up before you shagged his father.”
Draco伸出下嘴唇，眼睛向上眨了眨，歪着头承认了这一点。“是的，”他说。“就像在你揍他爸爸之前给你的朋友提个醒一样。”

Hermione froze by her door and Draco raised his eyebrows expectantly, his gaze never leaving hers. Aside from anything else, it was, Hermione was sure, the first time that Draco had ever explicitly referred to her as his friend. She'd never been sure they'd been at the same stage in how they saw one another.
赫敏在门口愣住了，德拉科期待地扬起眉毛，他的目光从未离开过她。撇开别的不谈，赫敏敢肯定，这是德拉科第一次明确地称她为他的朋友。她从来不确定他们是否在看待彼此方面处于同一阶段。

“I’m sorry,” she said, her voice suddenly soft and cowed. “It wasn’t – I didn’t – it wasn’t planned .”
“对不起，”她说，她的声音突然变得柔和而畏缩。“这不是——我没有——这不是计划好的。”

Draco was silent for a moment, watching her, and then he pushed himself up from his elbows into a straight sitting position. A wry smile tugged at his lips and he shook his head. “Don’t worry, Granger. I believe you. And I’m not angry.”
德拉科沉默了一会儿，看着她，然后他从胳膊肘上站起来，坐直了。他的嘴唇上扯出一丝苦笑，他摇了摇头。“别担心，格兰杰。我相信你。我不生气。

Breathing out a small sigh of relief, Hermione nodded. She wasn’t sure how much of a right he would have actually had to be furious with her – she and his father were, after all, consenting independent adults – but rights and reasons didn’t always factor into emotional reactions and she could only be grateful that he was being so measured. 
赫敏松了一口气，点了点头。她不确定他到底有多大的权利对她发火——毕竟她和他父亲都是自愿的独立成年人——但权利和理由并不总是影响情绪反应的因素，她只能感谢他被如此衡量。

“In fact, I want to discuss it as little as you do,” Draco continued, the lightness in his voice taking on a somewhat forced quality. “So you can make it up to me by playing along with this surprise tonight. For my father.”
“事实上，我想和你一样少讨论这件事，”德拉科继续说道，他声音中的轻盈带上了些许强迫的气质。“所以你可以通过今晚的这个惊喜来弥补我。为了我爸爸。

Hermione inspected Malfoy’s face for a moment before exhaling and allowing her shoulders to drop with defeat. 
赫敏检查了马尔福的脸一会儿，然后呼出一口气，让她的肩膀因挫败而垂下。

“Fine,” she said, tugging her towel more firmly into place and securing it under her armpit. “Fine. You know, I don’t think I ever realised how emotionally manipulative you are.”
“好吧，”她说，把毛巾更紧地拽到原位，把它固定在腋下。“好吧。你知道，我想我从来没有意识到你在情感上有多么操纵。

“It’s a family thing,” he said, pushing himself to his feet. “Get used to it.” 
“这是家常便饭，”他说，一边努力站起来。“习惯吧。”

Running an assessing eye over Hermione, he pursed his lips. “Clothes,” he finally said, ignoring her cringe in favour of turning towards her wardrobe. “Sort that hair out while I pick you something appropriate.”
他用评估的目光扫过赫敏，抿起了嘴唇。“衣服，”他终于说了，无视了她的畏缩，转身走向她的衣橱。“把头发整理一下，我给你挑选合适的。”

Grumbling, Hermione moved in front of her vanity table to look in the mirror and began to tug a comb through her thick hair while watching Draco rummage through her wardrobe behind her. 
赫敏咕哝着，走到梳妆台前照镜子，一边开始用梳子梳理她浓密的头发，一边看着德拉科在她身后的衣柜里翻找。

Trying to ignore the sound of Draco’s dissatisfied tuts , Hermione separated her hair into sections, took her wand and began using Lucius’ Sericum charm to dry it. As she uttered the charm, she saw Draco’s reflection stiffen and half-turn towards her. She studiously avoided eye contact with him and he was forced to return to what he was doing. 
赫敏试图无视德拉科不满的啧啧声，将她的头发分成几部分，拿起她的魔杖，开始用卢修斯的塞里库姆护身符吹干。当她说出这个咒语时，她看到德拉科的倒影僵硬了起来，半转身朝她走来。她刻意避免与他进行眼神接触，他被迫回到他正在做的事情上。

“Merlin, Granger,” Draco eventually said, pulling out swathes of denim and polyester patterns with an expression of disgust. “Do you have anything that’s even approaching formalwear? Any dress robes at all?”
“梅林，格兰杰，”德拉科终于说了出来，拿出一大片牛仔布和涤纶图案，露出厌恶的表情。“你有没有接近正装的东西？有没有礼服长袍？

Hermione shook her head and turned back towards him, her curls now dry and shiny. “I…sold them,” she muttered, rubbing her arm. “When I left the Ministry I didn’t have any need for them and I thought the money would be a good supplement to my reduced income.”
赫敏摇了摇头，转身看向他，她的卷发现在干燥而有光泽。“我......卖掉他们了，“她咕哝着，揉了揉自己的手臂。“当我离开魔法部时，我不需要他们，我认为这笔钱可以很好地补充我减少的收入。”

Draco shot her an exasperated look. “You’re a war heroine. I’m pretty sure every tailor in Wizarding Britain would dress you for free if you’d just be willing to have your photograph appear in the Prophet for once.”
德拉科恼怒地瞪了她一眼。“你是个战争女英雄。我很确定，巫师英国的每个裁缝都会免费为你提供服装，只要你愿意让你的照片出现在先知身上一次。

“Well, I’m not,” Hermione said firmly. 
“嗯，我不是，”赫敏坚定地说。

Rolling his eyes, Draco returned to rummaging through the wardrobe for another moment, practically disappearing inside it, when he let out a muffled victorious sound. 
Draco翻了个白眼，又在衣柜里翻找了一会儿，几乎消失在里面了，这时他发出了一声低沉的胜利声。

"What?" Hermione warily asked his back.
“什么？”赫敏小心翼翼地问他的背。

"This," he said, backing out into the room and drawing out a long black silk nightdress that Ginny had once purchased for her with him. It had been a thoughtful enough gift but Hermione hadn’t had the heart to tell Ginny that it just wasn’t the kind of thing she felt comfortable wearing to bed. An oversized t-shirt was much more her thing than slinky, sexy nightwear. As much as that had pained Ron. 
“这个，”他说着，退到房间里，拿出一条金妮曾经随身买的黑色丝绸长睡裙。这是一份足够体贴的礼物，但赫敏还没心思告诉金妮，这并不是她觉得穿上床睡觉舒服的那种东西。一件超大号 T 恤比紧身、性感的睡衣更像是她的菜。尽管这让罗恩感到痛苦。

"That’s a nightdress, Malfoy."
“那是睡裙，马尔福。”

Looking somewhat put out, Malfoy glanced down at the nightdress and then proceeded to throw it onto her bed. “Not after some wandwork it won’t be,” he said, rolling up his sleeves and drawing his wand out with a purposeful flourish. 
马尔福看起来有点沮丧，低头看了一眼睡裙，然后继续把它扔到她的床上。“经过一番魔杖工作后，不会的，”他说，卷起袖子，有目的地抽出魔杖。

Before Hermione could stop him, he had started waving his wand over the nightdress and she simply fell back, defeated. It wasn’t like she’d ever worn it anyway. 
在赫敏阻止他之前，他已经开始在睡裙上挥舞魔杖，而她只是败下阵来。反正她也没穿过它。

When Malfoy was finished with the nightdress, he held it up proudly and Hermione had to hand it to him that he was far more skilled in the area of clothing transfiguration than she was. Before her was a simple but pretty cowl-neck slip dress that didn’t look quite as much like it was made to be worn to bed. He pushed it into her hands and made for the door to the room. 
当马尔福完成睡裙时，他自豪地举起它，赫敏不得不把它递给他，他在服装变形方面比她熟练得多。在她面前的是一件简单但漂亮的垂褶领吊带裙，看起来不太像是用来睡觉的。他把门塞到她手里，朝房间的门走去。

“Put that on and meet me by the fire. We’re going to end up being late if you don’t get a move on.”
“穿上它，在火炉边见我。如果你不继续前进，我们最终会迟到。

Looking down at the soft dress now clutched in her hands, Hermione started to say “But –” when the slam of her bedroom door cut her off. With an aggravated sigh, she dropped her neck back and closed her eyes. Allowing Malfoy men into her life had not been one of her most stress-reducing ideas. 
赫敏低头看着手里攥着的柔软裙子，开始说“但是——”这时她卧室的门砰的一声打断了她。她恼怒地叹了口气，把脖子往后缩，闭上了眼睛。允许马尔福的男人进入她的生活并不是她最能减轻压力的想法之一。

When Hermione entered the living room wearing the dress, a pair of low-heeled slingback shoes and a light coating of makeup Malfoy looked her up and down with a critical stare before giving her nothing more than a perfunctory nod of approval. 
当赫敏穿着那件裙子走进客厅时，一双低跟露跟鞋和一层淡淡的化妆品，马尔福用挑剔的目光上下打量了她一番，然后只给了她一个敷衍的点头表示赞同。

“Come on,” he said, holding his hand out to her while jerking his head towards the pot of Floo Powder Hermione had left lying on the mantlepiece of her fire. 
“来吧，”他说，向她伸出手，同时猛地把头转向赫敏留在火堆壁炉架上的那罐飞路粉。

“I’m not taking another step until you tell me where we’re going, Malfoy,” Hermione said, stubbornly crossing her arms. 
“在你告诉我我们要去哪里之前，我不会再迈出一步，马尔福，”赫敏说，固执地交叉着双臂。

“Malfoy Manor,” he replied, surprising her with his easy acquiescence to her demand. “Where else do you think we’d be going if my father is involved? He can’t leave.”
“马尔福庄园，”他回答道，他轻易地默许了她的要求，这让她感到惊讶。“如果我父亲参与其中，你觉得我们还能去哪里？他不能离开。

“Well, why do I need to be dressed like this if we’re just going to yours?” she asked, looking down at the shiny silk of her dress and back up at his increasingly impatient face. “I hardly think –”
“嗯，如果我们要去你的，为什么还要穿成这样呢？”她问道，低头看着她裙子上闪亮的丝绸，又抬起头来看着他越来越不耐烦的脸。“我几乎不觉得——”

“Granger,” Draco said, his exasperation clear in the way a strand of his hair flopped onto his forehead. “Please just – for once in your life just cooperate. I think we know one another well enough at this point that you can be sure I’m not leading you to your doom here. There’s an event taking place at the Manor this evening and your attendance is required.”
“格兰杰，”德拉科说，他的一缕头发垂落在他的额头上，他的愤怒显而易见。“请就——你生命中的一次就合作吧。我想我们现在彼此都足够了解了，所以你可以肯定我不会把你引向你的厄运。今晚庄园将举行一场活动，需要您出席。

“ Required – ?”
“需要——？”

“ Granger !” Draco snapped. “I promise I’ll tell you everything when we get to the Manor just come on .”
“格兰杰！”德拉科厉声说。“我保证，当我们到达庄园时，我会告诉你一切，就来吧。”

Lips pursed doubtfully, Hermione eyed Draco’s outstretched hand until he wriggled his fingers encouragingly at her. Then, her shoulders fell in a sigh and she ungraciously stomped her way over to him, her heels heavy against the wooden floor. “Fine. I had better not regret this.”
赫敏疑惑地抿起嘴唇，盯着德拉科伸出的手，直到他鼓励地扭动着手指。然后，她的肩膀叹了口气，她毫不客气地跺着脚走到他身边，她的高跟鞋沉重地踩在木地板上。“好吧。我最好不要后悔。

Draco grumbled something angry about knowing all about regrets as he reached for her Floo Powder. 
德拉科抱怨着，因为他知道了所有的遗憾，同时伸手去拿她的飞路粉。

When they emerged from the fire in Malfoy Manor, Hermione realised that they were in a part of the building with which she wasn’t familiar. Adjusting her dress as she stepped out of the flames – ignoring Malfoy’s gentlemanly proffered hand – she looked around what appeared to be an antechamber of some kind. Eyes travelling around the relatively bare stone walls, she froze when she saw two Aurors standing on either side of a large set of wooden double doors. 
当他们从马尔福庄园的火灾中出来时，赫敏意识到他们身处一栋她不熟悉的建筑里。她从火焰中走出来时整理了一下自己的衣服——无视了马尔福绅士地伸出的手——她环顾了一下似乎是某种前厅的地方。她的眼睛在相对光秃秃的石墙上扫视，当她看到两个傲罗站在一大组木制双门的两侧时，她愣住了。

“Granger,” said one in cold greeting, while the other simply nodded his head stiffly. They didn't look especially happy to be there.
“格兰杰，”一个冷冷地打招呼，而另一个只是僵硬地点点头。他们看起来并不是特别高兴。

Hermione offered them a strained, polite smile before she swivelled around to face Malfoy with wide eyes, finding his face had dropped into a grimace. “Care to explain?” she asked in an undertone. “Would you care to explain why there are two Aurors in your home for this so-called event ? What is happening here, Malfoy? Is your father okay?”
赫敏向他们露出一个紧张而礼貌的微笑，然后她转过身来，睁大了眼睛面对马尔福，发现他的脸上已经露出了愁苦的表情。“要解释吗？”“你能解释一下为什么你家里有两个傲罗来参加这个所谓的活动吗？马尔福，这里发生了什么？你爸爸还好吗？

Malfoy seemed to soften at her enquiry after his father and sighed, running a hand through his hair. “Alright, Granger. Now that I’ve got you here you can know.”
马尔福似乎对她在他父亲之后的询问软化了下来，叹了口气，用一只手抚摸着他的头发。“好吧，格兰杰。现在我把你带到了这里，你就知道了。

Malfoy’s phrasing made Hermione glance over at the fire they’d come through and she found, to her irritation, that there was no Floo Powder in sight. She was stuck. She was so bloody stupid .
马尔福的措辞让赫敏瞥了一眼他们穿过的火堆，她发现，令她恼火的是，她看不到飞路粉。她被困住了。她真是的愚蠢。

“Malfoy, what –”
“马尔福，什么——”

“I will tell you if you’d just shut up ,” he said, stepping towards her. “Through those doors –” He pointed at the doors the Aurors were flanking. “Through those doors is a ballroom filled with your friends.” Hermione’s eyes widened with horror. “And all the best publishers of the wizarding world. Including all of the ones that have already rejected you.”
“如果你闭嘴，我会告诉你，”他说，一边向她走来。“通过那些门——”他指着傲罗们侧翼的门。“穿过那些门是一个舞厅，里面挤满了你的朋友。”赫敏惊恐地睁大了眼睛。“还有魔法世界所有最好的出版商。包括所有已经拒绝你的人。

Hermione’s mouth fell open and she shook her head weakly. “You said this was for your father ,” she said, the angry accusation in her voice making her loud in the echoing room. 
赫敏张大了嘴巴，虚弱地摇了摇头。“你说这是给你爸爸的，”她说，她声音中愤怒的指责让她在回荡的房间里大声喧哗。

Eyeing the Aurors by the door who had looked over with sharp-eyed interest on hearing Hermione’s outrage, Draco closed the remaining space between them, placed a hand on her shoulder and walked her away from them.
德拉科盯着门边的傲罗，他们听到赫敏的愤怒后，用锐利的眼神饶有兴趣地看着他们，德拉科拉近了他们之间剩下的空间，把手放在她的肩膀上，带着她离开了他们。

“It is,” he said soothingly. “At least, my part in it is; he asked for my help in getting you here. He organised it because he thinks you’ll stand the best chance if you do some face-to-face pitching. I think he’s right.”
“是的，”他安抚地说。“至少，我在其中的作用是;他请我帮忙把你送到这里。他组织了这次活动，因为他认为如果你做一些面对面的推销，你会有最好的机会。我认为他是对的。

“Malfoy, I don’t want to – to have to –”
“马尔福，我不想——不得不——”

“Talk to people?” he asked sharply. “Because that’s all it is, Granger. You just have to explain to them exactly what you would in a letter but here they’ll have to listen to you.”
“和人说话？”“因为就是这样，格兰杰。你只需要向他们解释你在信中要写什么，但在这里，他们必须听你的话。

“Your father –”
“你爸爸——”

“Isn’t here,” he said, correctly reading the way her eyes were darting around the room. “He can’t be. But he told me that you’re to stay in there until the end and do what you do best.”
“不在这里，”他说，正确地读懂了她的眼睛在房间里扫视的样子。“他不可能。但他告诉我，你要在那里待到最后，做你最擅长的事情。

Her eyes snapped back to his. “What exactly is that ?”
她的眼睛猛然回到他的身上。“那到底是什么？”

“Harangue.” 
“哈兰格。”

An upset but genuine laugh escaped Hermione and a small smile flitted across Draco’s face as he watched her internal struggle.   
赫敏发出一阵不安但真诚的笑声，德拉科看着她内心的挣扎，脸上闪过一丝微笑。

“It won’t be so bad, Granger,” he cajoled. “Potter and the Weasleys are there. Longbottom and Lovegood, too. You like them, don’t you?”
“不会那么糟糕，格兰杰，”他哄骗道。“波特和韦斯莱一家就在那里。隆巴顿和洛夫古德也是如此。你喜欢他们，不是吗？

“He knows I’ll hate this,” she said. “He knows and that’s why he didn’t tell me. I’ve already talked about this with him, Malfoy; he needs to stop making decisions for people –”
“他知道我会讨厌这个，”她说。“他知道，所以他没有告诉我。我已经和他谈过这件事了，马尔福;他需要停止为人们做决定——”

“That he cares about,” Draco finished for her with a significant, pointed look that made her fall silent. “I can’t say I entirely disagree with you on that front, Granger. But in this particular instance, I think this will do you more good than harm. You’re not always right, you know. As much as you’d like to believe that.”
“他在乎的，”德拉科用一个意味深长、尖锐的眼神为她结束，让她沉默了下来。“我不能说我完全不同意你的观点，格兰杰。但在这种特殊情况下，我认为这对你利大于弊。你知道的，你并不总是对的。只要你愿意相信这一点。

With an aggravated sigh, Hermione glanced over at the large door to the Malfoy ballroom and saw the Aurors were still watching her and Draco with keen, narrow-eyed interest. 
赫敏恼怒地叹了口气，瞥了一眼马尔福舞厅的大门，发现傲罗们还在用敏锐的、眯着眼睛的眼神看着她和德拉科。

“Alright,” she agreed quietly. “But can we…do we have to go through those doors? Isn’t there a more…I don’t know, subtle way in?”
“好吧，”她平静地答应。“但是我们能......我们必须穿过那些门吗？不是有更多吗...我不知道，微妙的进去？

A small smile tugged on Draco’s lips and he nodded. “Come on then.”
德拉科的嘴唇上勾起一丝微笑，他点了点头。“那就来吧。”

Feeling the eyes of the Aurors on her back, Hermione followed Malfoy through another door she’d failed to notice before. They walked into a long, narrow corridor with no natural light and travelled in silence along it, seemingly going around the wide shape of the ballroom. Eventually, Draco brought them to a dead end. Ignoring Hermione’s noise of confused frustration, he closed his eyes and laid his hand flat against the wall. From the centre of his palm, wood seemed to spill out over the stone surface of the wall and Hermione watched, open-mouthed, as a door appeared. 
赫敏感觉到傲罗的目光在她的背上，跟着马尔福穿过了另一扇她以前没有注意到的门。他们走进一条没有自然光的狭长走廊，静静地沿着走廊走去，似乎在宴会厅的宽阔形状周围走来走去。最终，德拉科把他们带到了死胡同。他无视赫敏困惑而沮丧的声音，闭上眼睛，把手平放在墙上。木头似乎从他的手掌中心溢出了墙壁的石头表面，赫敏张大了嘴巴，看着一扇门出现。

“How long have you been a witch?” Malfoy asked, an incredulous smile appearing as he turned to see her expression. 
“你当女巫多久了？”马尔福问道，当他转过身来看她的表情时，露出难以置信的笑容。

“You forgot the handle,” Hermione said acidly, nodding her head at the smooth flat surface that looked as though it could have been painted onto the wall rather than embedded in it. 
“你忘了把手，”赫敏酸溜溜地说，对着那光滑平坦的表面点点头，看起来好像它可以画在墙上，而不是嵌入其中。

Raising his eyebrows, Draco simply shoved the door and gave her a smug look as it creaked open. “After you,” he said with a mock bow and a flourish of his hand. 
Draco扬起眉毛，简单地推开了门，在门吱吱作响时得意地看了她一眼。“跟你后面，”他假装鞠躬说，挥了挥手。

Grumbling, Hermione passed him into the impenetrable darkness. It lasted only a second before she emerged, blinking, in the rear corner of an expansive ballroom. The room was brightly-lit, busy and buzzing with the sounds of quiet conversation. No one had looked at Hermione when she appeared and, still, no one turned when Draco appeared beside her a moment later as though from thin air. 
赫敏咕哝着，把他传进了那难以穿透的黑暗中。只持续了一秒钟，她就出现在一个宽敞的宴会厅的后角，眨了眨眼。房间里灯火通明，人头攒动，嗡嗡作响，传来了安静的谈话声。赫敏出现时没有人看她一眼，但当德拉科片刻后像凭空出现一样出现在她身边时，也没有人转过身来。

Hermione turned around to look at the door through which they’d come and found nothing but a smooth wall. Directing raised eyebrows at Draco, she found him grinning. 
赫敏转过身来，看向他们进来的那扇门，发现除了一堵光滑的墙外，什么都没有。她朝德拉科扬起眉毛，发现他正在咧嘴笑。

“A Malfoy should always have a safe route out of a busy room, Granger. Even in their own home. Especially in their own home, actually.”
“马尔福应该总是有一条安全的路线离开繁忙的房间，格兰杰。甚至在他们自己的家里。实际上，尤其是在他们自己的家里。

As she shook her head and turned back to the wider room, Malfoy joined her and draped a heavy arm across her shoulder. “Now,” he said, lowering his head to speak in her ear. “What’s the plan?”
当她摇摇头，转身回到更宽阔的房间时，马尔福也加入了她的行列，用一只沉重的手臂搭在她的肩膀上。“现在，”他说，低下头在她耳边说话。“有什么计划？”

“What do you mean ‘what’s the plan ?’” Hermione hissed, attempting to shrug him off and failing. “You’re the one that dragged me here – I should be asking you that.”
“你说的'有什么计划？'赫敏嘶嘶地叫着，试图把他耸耸肩，但失败了。“你就是把我拖到这儿的人——我应该问你这个问题。”

“Well, this little section of the room is always shielded by a Notice Me Not charm for obvious reasons, so why don’t you take a moment to get the lay of the land,” Draco suggested. 
“嗯，房间的这一小部分总是被一个通知我不要的咒语遮挡着，原因很明显，所以你为什么不花点时间了解一下情况，”德拉科建议道。

Well, at least that explained why no one had turned around to look at them, Hermione thought. She’d started to wonder if Malfoy had found a convoluted way to bring her into a Pensieve memory. Squinting into the crowd, Hermione spotted plenty of familiar faces and some that she didn’t know at all.
嗯，至少这解释了为什么没有人转过头来看他们，赫敏想。她开始怀疑马尔福是否找到了一种复杂的方法，让她进入了 Pensieve 的记忆。赫敏眯着眼睛看向人群，发现了很多熟悉的面孔，也有一些她根本不认识的面孔。

Professors McGonagall, Sprout, Flitwick and Slughorn were all crowded together in quiet conversation. As Hermione watched them, Slughorn delightedly plucked four tiny tartlets from one of the many trays that were floating around the room at head height. 
麦格教授、斯普劳特教授、弗立维教授和斯拉格霍恩教授都挤在一起，悄悄地交谈着。赫敏看着他们，斯拉格霍恩高兴地从房间里漂浮着的众多托盘中的一个中摘下了四个小馅饼。

A short distance from them, a pair of wizards and a bespectacled witch Hermione had never seen before were gathered in a half circle around a plinth at the edge of the room and as one of them shifted to the side, Hermione realised that the plinth was topped with a Wheezebox. In fact – her eyes travelled around the perimeter of the ballroom and saw many such plinths. 
在离他们不远的地方，一对巫师和一个赫敏从未见过的戴眼镜的女巫围成半圈，围着房间边缘的基座，当其中一个人移到一边时，赫敏意识到基座上有一个喘息盒。 事实上——她的眼睛在宴会厅的周边四处走动，看到了许多这样的基座。

“Malfoy, what –”
“马尔福，什么——”

“They’re yours,” he confirmed, having followed her gaze. “Don’t worry, it’s just a temporary charm. When people step within the bounds of the charm surrounding the plinth, they can hear portions of your interviews. Little clips. Father thought it might help.”
“它们是你的，”他顺着她的目光确认道。“别担心，这只是暂时的魅力。当人们踏入基座周围的魅力范围时，他们可以听到您的部分采访。小剪辑。爸爸觉得可能会有帮助。

Hermione watched the witch and wizards listen intently, seriously, to whatever interview the Wheezebox was playing and felt a curious mix of gratification and protectiveness. It was quite possible they were publishers. Publishers who had turned her down. Publishers who were wondering if they’d been wrong. 
赫敏看着女巫和巫师们专心致志地、认真地听着Wheezebox正在播放的任何采访，并感到一种满足和保护的奇怪混合。他们很可能是出版商。拒绝她的出版商。出版商怀疑自己是不是错了。

“How did you organise this so…quickly?” Hermione asked, her voice faint with amazement as she turned her head to look at him.
“你是怎么组织起来的......快点？赫敏问道，她转过头看着他，声音因惊讶而微弱。

“With a great deal of effort,” Draco said dryly. “So do appreciate it.”
“费了很大的力气，”德拉科干巴巴地说。“所以请欣赏它。”

“I don’t suppose I can do anything else.”
“我想我什么都做不了。”

“No,” Malfoy agreed. Then, tightening his arm around her shoulder he walked her forward into the room and out of the bounds of the Notice Me Not charm. “So, why don’t you start having some conversations and we can –”
“不，”马尔福同意道。然后，他用手臂搂住她的肩膀，带着她向前走进房间，走出了“不要通知我”咒语的界限。“那么，你为什么不开始进行一些对话，我们可以——”

“Hermione!”
“赫敏！”

Malfoy stiffened and both he and Hermione turned at the sound of the nearby voice. A wide grin spread over Hermione’s face as she saw Ron, Harry and Ginny only a few feet away. All three were holding half-full flutes of what looked to be champagne and, like everyone else in the ballroom, they were smartly dressed. Harry and Ron were wearing black dress robes while Ginny looked positively royal in a deep purple lace dress.
马尔福僵硬了一下，他和赫敏都听到了附近的声音转过身来。赫敏的脸上露出了灿烂的笑容，她看到罗恩、哈利和金妮就在几英尺远的地方。三个人都拿着半满的长笛，看起来像是香槟，和舞厅里的其他人一样，他们穿着得体。哈利和罗恩穿着黑色的礼服长袍，而金妮则穿着深紫色的蕾丝连衣裙，看起来非常皇室。

Ginny and Harry returned Hermione’s grin on approach, while Ron glared at Malfoy’s arm on Hermione’s shoulder with stony focus. Whether or not Malfoy cared what Ron thought, Hermione didn’t know, but the arm was removed as her friends reached them and Draco straightened up, sliding his hands into the safety of his pockets. Surnames were murmured by way of greeting between Draco and the others while Hermione accepted hugs from each of them in turn. 
金妮和哈利在走近时回应赫敏的笑容，而罗恩则瞪着马尔福搭在赫敏肩膀上的手臂，目光坚定。不管马尔福是否在乎罗恩的想法，赫敏不知道，但当她的朋友们走到他们身边时，那只手臂被拿走了，德拉科直起身来，把手滑进了口袋里。德拉科和其他人之间低声问候着姓氏，而赫敏则依次接受了他们每个人的拥抱。

“Oh, you look fantastic,” enthused Ginny, stepping back from Hermione and holding her champagne glass wide to admire the transfigured dress. "Very sexy. In a completely understated, professional way, of course."
“哦，你看起来真棒，”金妮兴奋地从赫敏身边退后一步，大口举起香槟杯，欣赏着那件变形的裙子。“非常性感。当然，以一种完全低调、专业的方式。

Hermione glanced at Draco, who looked quietly pleased with himself, before turning back to Ginny to thank her, opting to skim over what the dress had been before Malfoy’s magical intervention. 
赫敏看了一眼德拉科，他看起来对自己很满意，然后转身向金妮道谢，选择略过马尔福魔法干预之前的裙子是什么。

“Some event, Hermione,” Harry said, looking around the Malfoy’s ballroom with something close to wonder. “I didn’t expect anything like this.”
“有什么活动，赫敏，”哈利说，用某种近乎好奇的眼神环顾着马尔福的舞厅。“我没想到会发生这样的事情。”

“No, nor did I,” Hermione said with a dark, sidelong look at Draco. “Thank you for coming, though,” she added, giving each of them a smile in turn. “All of you.”
“不，我也没有，”赫敏说着，阴沉地侧头看着德拉科。“不过，谢谢你的到来，”她补充道，依次向他们每个人微笑。“你们所有人。”

“S’not the first place I’d pick to visit,” said Ron, tugging at the neck of his robes with an uncomfortable grimace directed at the grandeur of the room. “Not after last time." Draco stiffened imperceptibly beside Hermione. "But you know we’d do it for you. Wish you’d given us a heads up first, though.”
“这不是我选择去的第一个地方，”罗恩说，拉着他的长袍脖子，对着这个宏伟的房间做了一个不舒服的鬼脸。“上次之后就不行了。”德拉科在赫敏身边不知不觉地僵硬了起来。“但你知道我们会为你做这件事。不过，希望你先给我们提个醒。

“Well, I didn’t even know it was happening,” Hermione said, her voice rising with surprise. “I was cleaning my kitchen an hour ago.”
“嗯，我什至都不知道发生了，”赫敏说，她的声音因惊讶而提高。“一个小时前我正在打扫厨房。”

It was Harry’s turn to appear uncomfortable and he shot a studiously disinterested Malfoy an accusatory look as he said, “I thought you did know or I –”
轮到哈利显得不自在了，他用一种指责的眼神看了马尔福一眼，说，“我以为你确实知道，或者我——”

What exactly Harry would have done they didn’t find out as a drawled “Draco” interrupted him. Turning, their group was met with the sight of Pansy Parkinson, Luna Lovegood and Neville Longbottom. 
哈利到底会做什么，他们没有发现，因为一个抽搐的“德拉科”打断了他。他们一行人转过身来，看到了潘西·帕金森（Pansy Parkinson）、卢娜·洛夫古德（Luna Lovegood）和内维尔·隆巴顿（Neville Longbottom）。

Pansy, who had spoken Malfoy’s name, disinterestedly ran her eyes along the group before settling them back on Draco with a nod of greeting. Hand-in-hand with Pansy, Luna gave them all a dreamy, happy smile, while Neville waved awkwardly, shooting Ron a nervous glance.
说出马尔福名字的潘西漫不以为然地扫视着这群人，然后点头打招呼，把目光放回德拉科身上。卢娜和潘西手牵手，给了他们一个梦幻般的快乐微笑，而纳威则尴尬地挥了挥手，紧张地瞥了罗恩一眼。

“Pans,” Draco said, a surprised lilt to his voice, “I didn’t expect to see you here. Didn’t you tell me – what was it – you don't do soporifics unless they're Healer prescribed?”
“潘斯，”德拉科说，他的声音里带着惊讶的轻快，“我没想到会在这里见到你。你没告诉我——那是什么——除非是治疗师开的处方，否则你不会做催眠药吗？

Rolling her eyes, Pansy inclined her head towards Luna and said, “I was persuaded.”
潘西翻了个白眼，把头歪向露娜说：“我被说服了。

“I see,” Draco replied, an amused smile playing around his lips. “I don’t recall you ever being very easily persuaded.”
“我明白了，”德拉科回答，嘴角浮现出一个有趣的笑容。“我记得你从来没有被轻易说服过。”

“Well, you were never particularly persuasive , Draco,” Pansy said sniffily. "You just liked to think you were."
“嗯，你从来都不是特别有说服力，德拉科，”潘西轻蔑地说。“你只是喜欢认为你是。”

“Your house is nicer up here,” Luna said to Draco suddenly, tearing her eyes away from the sparkling chandelier, clearly not having listened to Draco and Pansy’s exchange at all. “Much less damp.”
“你家这儿比较好，”卢娜突然对德拉科说，把目光从那盏闪闪发光的吊灯上移开，显然根本没有听德拉科和潘西的交流。“不那么潮湿。”

Everyone in the group visibly stiffened at Luna’s declaration – Draco most especially. Everyone, that is, except for Pansy, whose shoulders shook with repressed laughter. Releasing Luna’s hand, Pansy pointed towards a tray bearing champagne flutes and placed a gentle touch on her lower back. 
小组中的每个人都明显对 Luna 的声明感到僵硬——尤其是 Draco。每个人，除了潘西，她的肩膀因压抑的笑声而颤抖。松开 Luna 的手，Pansy 指向一个盛着香槟杯的托盘，轻轻地抚摸着她的下背部。

“Would you mind getting me one, love? We’ll see if we can find a way to get out of here and look for those Blibbering Humdinger hides after that.”
“你介意给我买一个吗，亲爱的？我们看看能不能找到办法离开这里，然后去找那些喋喋不休的Humdinger的藏身之处。

Luna nodded enthusiastically and with another smile at everyone, slipped away from the group towards the tray Pansy had pointed out. 
露娜热情地点点头，又对大家微笑，从人群中溜走，走向潘西指出的托盘。

“I thought you said you were good at curtailing her less tactful declarations,” Draco said through gritted teeth to Pansy, his eyes shifting uneasily to Hermione, Harry and the Weasleys.
“我还以为你说你很擅长克制她不那么委婉的声明，”德拉科咬牙切齿地对潘西说，他的眼睛不安地转向赫敏、哈利和韦斯莱一家。

“I am,” Pansy said with a shrug. “When I want to. I find that’s rare, though. Besides, you should have seen your face. Hilarious.”
“我是，”潘西耸耸肩说。“我想什么时候。不过，我发现这种情况很少见。此外，你应该看到你的脸。太搞笑了。

Ron snorted as pink spots appeared on Draco’s cheeks. “And don’t you dare try to get out of this room,” Draco said, drawing himself up authoritatively. “There are Aurors stationed at the entrance and I don’t know what a bloody Blibbering Humdinger is but I can assure you that we don’t –”
罗恩哼了一声，德拉科的脸颊上出现了粉红色的斑点。“你还敢试着离开这个房间吗，”德拉科说，威严地站起身来。“入口处有傲罗驻扎着，我不知道什么是的喋喋不休的喋喋不休的傻瓜，但我可以向你保证，我们没有——”

“So Malfoy took it on himself to organise all of this?” Ginny murmured to Harry under cover of Draco and Pansy’s argument becoming more heated. “And he said he didn’t have a thing for her.”
“所以马尔福自己承担了组织这一切的责任？”金妮在德拉科的掩护下对哈利喃喃自语，潘西的争论变得更加激烈。“他说他对她没有好感。”

“I don’t think he does, Gin, he just –”
“我不认为他知道，Gin，他只是——”

“Oh, just let her have a look , Draco,” came Pansy’s cajoling voice.
“哦，让她看看吧，德拉科，”潘西哄骗的声音传来。

“No!” Draco snapped. “I have an arrangement with the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and the last thing –”
“不！”德拉科厉声说。“我和魔法执法部有个安排，最后一件事——”

“Oh please, Harry,” Ginny scoffed quietly and waved a hand. “Look at this place. This has come from the mind of someone who either wants to get in, or stay in, Hermione Granger’s knickers.”
“哦，拜托了，哈利，”金妮轻声嘲笑着，挥了挥手。“看看这个地方。这句话出自一个想进或想留在赫敏·格兰杰的短裤里的人的想法。

Harry’s face visibly paled as Ginny pulled a now-quiet but flushed Draco’s attention from Pansy by jutting her chin at him. “So, if Hermione didn’t know about all this,” Ginny said, raising her voice slightly to bring her and Harry back into the group’s conversation, “does that mean it was all your work then, Malfoy?” 
哈利的脸色明显苍白，金妮把现在安静但又冲昏了头脑的德拉科的注意力从潘西身上伸出来。“所以，如果赫敏不知道这一切，”金妮说，稍微提高了声音，让她和哈利回到了小组的谈话中，“那是不是意味着那都是你的工作，马尔福？

Malfoy frowned at Ginny’s smug face as she lifted her champagne flute to her lips. “No,” he said. “It was mostly my father.”
马尔福对着金妮得意的脸皱起眉头，她把香槟酒杯举到嘴边。“不，”他说。“主要是我爸爸。”

If at all possible, Harry’s face went even more pale and Ginny choked on her champagne. Malfoy watched, distaste written over his face, as Ginny coughed while Harry patted her back, giving everyone in the perplexed group an apologetic grimace. 
如果可能的话，哈利的脸色会更加苍白，金妮被香槟呛住了。马尔福看着金妮咳嗽，哈利拍着她的背，让困惑的人群中的每一个人都做了一个抱歉的鬼脸。

“Must have went down the wrong way,” he said with false joviality over the sound of his wife’s spluttering. 
“一定是走错了路，”他对妻子的啪啪声带着假装的欢快说。

Rolling her eyes with disgust, Pansy swept her dark hair over her shoulder and stepped away from the group in the direction of Luna, who was re-approaching with a glass of champagne for her. Hermione watched Pansy place an uncharacteristically warm kiss of thanks on Luna’s lips as she accepted the glass before turning back towards the group. 
潘西厌恶地翻了个白眼，把她的黑发拂过肩膀，离开了人群，朝着露娜的方向走去，露娜正拿着一杯香槟重新走过来。赫敏看着潘西在卢娜的嘴唇上一个异常温暖的感谢之吻，她接过杯子，然后转身走向这群人。

Draco watched Pansy and Luna over Hermione’s head, his eyes narrowed with suspicion. It was abundantly clear he would be surveilling them for the rest of the night. Neville, meanwhile, had turned to Ron with a nervous expression. 
德拉科看着潘西和卢娜越过赫敏的头顶，怀疑地眯起了眼睛。很明显，他会在剩下的晚上监视他们。与此同时，纳威转向罗恩，露出紧张的表情。

“So, er…how you doing, Ron?”
“所以，呃......你好吗，罗恩？

Hermione watched on with exasperation as, shoving his hands in his pockets, Ron barely managed to spare Neville a glance as he grunted and shrugged out a reply that said very little about how he was at all. 
赫敏恼怒地看着罗恩双手插在口袋里，勉强瞥了纳威一眼，他咕哝着耸了耸肩，回答得一点也不清楚。

Just about recovered from her coughing fit, Ginny cast her taciturn brother a disgusted look and moved away from Harry to take Neville by the elbow. 
刚从咳嗽中恢复过来，金妮厌恶地看了她沉默寡言的弟弟一眼，然后离开哈利，抓住纳威的胳膊肘。

“Come on, Neville,” she said, her voice still slightly hoarse. “I don’t think I’ve seen your Wheezebox yet, would you mind showing me it?”
“来吧，纳威，”她说，她的声音仍然略微沙哑。“我想我还没见过你的 Wheezebox，你介意给我看一下吗？”

Draco, who hadn’t taken his eyes from Pansy and Luna for a second, placed a gentle hand on Hermione’s arm. “Excuse me for a moment, Granger,” he said, his eyes dropping briefly to hers. “Talk to some bloody publishers, will you? It’s the entire point.”
德拉科的眼睛一秒钟都没有从潘西和卢娜身上移开，他温柔地把手放在赫敏的手臂上。“对不起，格兰杰，”他说，他的眼睛短暂地落在她的身上。“和一些的出版商谈谈，好吗？这就是重点。

Before Hermione could say a word, Draco had slipped away towards the space in the room from which Luna and Pansy had just managed to vanish without a trace. Huffing out a sigh, Hermione turned back to Harry and Ron and shrugged at them.
赫敏还没来得及说一句话，德拉科就溜向了房间里那个空间，卢娜和潘西刚刚从那里消失得无影无踪。赫敏叹了口气，转身看向哈利和罗恩，对他们耸了耸肩。

“Just the three of us,” she said. Then, turning to Ron, added, “And while it is just the three of us: be nice to Neville.”
“就我们三个人，”她说。然后，转向罗恩，补充道，“趁着只有我们三个人的时候，对纳威好一点。

“Why should I?” Ron asked, crossing his arms as his brow dropped into a low frown. 
“我为什么要呢？”罗恩问道，交叉着双臂，眉头低垂。

“Because he’s your friend,” Hermione said. “And has been for a long time.”
“因为他是你的朋友，”赫敏说。“而且已经有很长一段时间了。”

Ron glanced at Harry who, to Hermione's surprise, nodded in agreement. “We’re too old for this, mate. He’s not really done anything wrong.”
罗恩看了哈利一眼，让赫敏惊讶的是，哈利点头表示同意。“我们太老了，伙计。他真的没有做错任何事情。

As Ron looked back and forth between Harry and Hermione, Hermione thought she saw something soften in his expression. Before she could say anything else, however, he grumbled something about finding more haggis bon bons and stalked off in the direction of the heavily-laden canapé trays. 
当罗恩在哈利和赫敏之间来回打量时，赫敏觉得她看到了他的表情中有些柔和的东西。然而，还没等她说什么，他就抱怨说要找到更多的羊糖果，然后大步朝着装满小菜的托盘的方向走去。

“I didn’t know you didn’t know about this,” Harry said quietly as they watched Ron go. “I just assumed –”
“我不知道你不知道这件事，”哈利看着罗恩离去，轻声说。“我只是假设——”

“Don’t worry,” Hermione said, shaking her head with a soft smile. “I get the impression your not knowing about the extent of my knowledge was a very deliberate move on the part of the Malfoys. We’re here now.”
“别担心，”赫敏说，摇了摇头，露出温柔的笑容。“我感觉你不知道我的知识范围是马尔福家族非常故意的举动。我们现在在这里。

“Pretty impressive, though,” Harry said, leaning back on his heels to look up at the cavernous ceiling of the ballroom. “And organised by none other than Lucius Malfoy?”
“不过，还是很令人印象深刻，”哈利说，向后靠在脚跟上，抬头看着宴会厅的洞穴状天花板。“而且不是别人，正是卢修斯·马尔福组织的？”

Hermione absentmindedly hummed her agreement, eyes darting around at the strangers in the room, some of whom had clearly spotted her and were now eyeing her with an interest that made her apprehensive.
赫敏心不在焉地哼着同意的小曲，眼睛四处扫视着房间里的陌生人，其中一些人显然已经发现了她，现在正以一种让她担心的兴趣看着她。

“Quite a gesture. Particularly from him.”
“真是个姿态。尤其是他。

Looking back at Harry, Hermione found his green gaze fixed on her with keen interest. “Well, I did tell you he has a heart,” she said, feeling suddenly very awkward and exposed. 
赫敏回头看向哈利，发现他绿色的目光饶有兴趣地盯着她。“嗯，我确实告诉你他有心，”她说，突然感到非常尴尬和暴露。

“You did.”
“你做到了。”

Hermione could only handle a beat of pregnant silence between them before she said, gesturing to the wider room, “I suppose I’d better –”
赫敏只能忍受他们之间孕育的沉默，然后她说，指着更宽阔的房间，“我想我最好——”

“Yeah, of course, go on,” Harry replied, shooing her away with his hands. “We’re here if you need us.”
“是的，当然，继续说，”哈利回答，用手把她赶走。“如果你需要我们，我们就在这里。”

With nothing but a strained smile to offer Harry, Hermione took a deep breath and prepared to throw herself into a series of conversations she wasn’t altogether prepared to have. In the end, however, they weren't quite as bad as she'd envisioned. 
赫敏对哈利露出一个紧张的笑容，她深吸了一口气，准备投入到一系列她还没有完全准备好的对话中。然而，最终，他们并没有她想象的那么糟糕。

The publishers didn't try to avoid her. They engaged with her. And Hermione did indeed find it much easier to talk her way around them when she could see their facial expressions and they couldn't simply pretend she wasn't speaking. They were, after all, at her event and they had to pay for their nosiness with politeness. After a while, she thought she might finally be getting through to some of them. Certainly, they weren’t edging away nearly as much.
出版商并没有试图避开她。他们与她进行了互动。赫敏确实发现，当她能看到他们的面部表情时，在他们身边交谈要容易得多，而且他们不能简单地假装她没有说话。毕竟，他们是在她的活动中，他们必须礼貌地为他们的爱管闲事付出代价。过了一会儿，她觉得自己可能终于能打通他们中的一些人了。当然，他们并没有那么多。

"Interesting that the Malfoys are so behind your venture, Miss Granger," said one witch.Sweeping the hand she was using to hold her champagne over the room she added, "This… is generous."
“有趣的是，马尔福家族竟然如此支持你的冒险，格兰杰小姐，”一个女巫说。她用那只手把香槟扫过房间，补充道，“这个......是慷慨的。

"Well, they’re involved as subjects," Hermione said, addressing the witch and the small group attached to their conversation. "Their support in this manner is appreciated but perhaps it’s less surprising if you view it in the context of their involvement before this."
“嗯，他们是作为对象参与进来的，”赫敏对女巫和他们谈话中的一小群人说。“他们以这种方式的支持是值得赞赏的，但如果你从他们在此之前的参与来看，也许就不那么令人惊讶了。”

"And I suppose this means they won’t seek any kind of…retribution, legal or otherwise for being published?" asked a weaselly, well-dressed wizard, his voice lowering and his eyes darting around nervously.
“我想这意味着他们不会寻求任何形式的......“一个衣着考究的黄鼠狼问道，他压低了声音，眼睛紧张地四处张望。

"I should think not," Hermione said with a small laugh. "I’m very clear with those I interview that I’m not seeking to damage their reputations –"
“我应该不这么认为，”赫敏小笑着说。“我对我采访的人非常清楚，我不是想损害他们的声誉——”

"No," the witch interrupted with a tinkling laugh, "the Malfoys have done quite enough of that on their own, haven't they?" 
“不，”女巫叮叮当当地笑着打断了他，“马尔福一家自己已经做得够多了，不是吗？

"Perhaps they have," Hermione said sharply over the tittering that had broken out. "Though I like to think my work explores that as something to take seriously rather than something to laugh at."
“也许他们有，”赫敏对爆发的嘲讽尖锐地说。“尽管我喜欢认为我的作品将其探索为值得认真对待的事情，而不是令人嘲笑的事情。”

Looking over the shoulder of the witch who was no longer laughing, Hermione’s attention was caught by the tall figure of Kingsley Shacklebolt. Standing alone by a plinth, he waved and met her eyes inclining his head towards the side of the room in an invitation to speak. 
越过不再笑的女巫的肩膀，赫敏的注意力被金斯莱·沙克尔博尔的高大身影吸引了。他独自站在基座旁，挥了挥手，与她的眼睛对上，他把头歪向房间的一侧，邀请他说话。

“Please excuse me,” Hermione said with an apologetic smile. “I’ll be happy to continue this discussion in a moment, I just have to –” She gestured to Kingsley and the witch, becoming wide-eyed as she glanced over her shoulder to see the Minister for Magic of all people, nodded. 
“请原谅我，”赫敏带着歉意的笑容说。“我很乐意一会儿继续这个讨论，我只需要——”她向金斯莱和女巫做了个手势，瞪大了眼睛，回头瞥了一眼所有人中的魔法部长，点了点头。

“Thank you, Minister,” Hermione said, sidling up to Kingsley with a smile, “for making me look quite important there.”
“谢谢你，部长，”赫敏说，微笑着走到金斯莱身边，“让我在那儿显得相当重要。

Kingsley’s eyebrows rose and he surveyed the grandeur of the room and all the people it contained. “More important than all of this does? Your flattery is out in force tonight, Hermione.”
金斯莱扬起眉毛，他打量着这个房间的宏伟和里面的所有人。“比这一切更重要？你的奉承今晚就要出场了，赫敏。

Brushing a curl from her face, Hermione felt heat rise in her cheeks. “Yes, well, I didn’t ask for this, Kingsley.”
拂去脸上的卷发，赫敏感到脸颊升起了热量。“是的，好吧，我不是要这个的，金斯利。”

“Lucius Malfoy had a reputation for generosity when he found a cause worth supporting back in the day.” Kingsley walked them slowly to the side of the room, away from the many curious eyes and ears surrounding them. “I’m sure it can be quite overwhelming.”
“卢修斯·马尔福（Lucius Malfoy）以慷慨著称，当年他找到了一项值得支持的事业时。”金斯莱慢慢地把他们带到房间的一侧，避开了他们周围许多好奇的眼睛和耳朵。“我敢肯定，这可能会让人不知所措。”

“I’ve been having some trouble persuading publishers to take up the book,” Hermione explained as she followed him. “He thought I might have more success in person than via owl.”
“我一直在努力说服出版商接手这本书，”赫敏一边跟着他解释道。“他认为我亲自去可能比通过猫头鹰更成功。”

Kingsley nodded, pushing his lower lip out in a considering manner. “He's learned your strengths, then,” he said. “Though I wonder that you are having any trouble, Hermione. You seemed certain of its value and you are not a poor communicator."
金斯莱点点头，若有所思地把下唇往外推。“那么，他已经了解了你的长处，”他说。“虽然我想知道你有什么麻烦吗，赫敏。你似乎很确定它的价值，而且你不是一个糟糕的沟通者。

They turned together so that their backs were to the wall and faced the room shoulder-to-shoulder while they continued to speak. By facing outward, they made it awkward for anyone to spend too long staring at them while they conversed. It was one of Kingsley’s favourite tricks – to gain a small amount of privacy by staring down those who might seek to take it. 
他们一起转过身来，背对着墙壁，肩并肩面对房间，继续说话。他们面朝外，让任何人在交谈时都无法长时间盯着他们看，这让别人感到很尴尬。这是金斯利最喜欢的伎俩之一——通过盯着那些可能试图夺取隐私的人来获得一点隐私。

Cringing, Hermione raised a shoulder. “Unfortunately, Lucius is sort of part of the problem there. “They haven’t been overwhelmingly eager to publish his contribution.”
赫敏畏缩着抬起了肩膀。“不幸的是，卢修斯是那里问题的一部分。”他们并没有压倒性地渴望发表他的贡献。

“I see.”
“我明白了。”

“But I think it should be read.” Hermione glanced up at Kingsley and found his expression unreadable. “Besides, as I told him, I really don’t think the Wizengamot will be amenable to my appeal for him if what he’s contributed never actually sees the light of day.”
“但我认为应该读一读。”赫敏抬头看了一眼金斯莱，发现他的表情难以捉摸。“此外，正如我告诉他的，如果他的贡献从未真正出现过，我真的不认为威森加摩会接受我为他的呼吁。”

“That is actually what I wanted to speak with you about, Hermione.”
“这其实就是我想和你谈的，赫敏。”

Catching her next words in her mouth, Hermione looked up at Kingsley’s serious expression and felt a tug of foreboding. “They’ve come to a decision?”
赫敏从嘴里听到接下来的话，抬头看着金斯莱严肃的表情，感到一阵不祥的预感。“他们已经决定了？”

“Yes.” He nodded, eyes flitting down to hers and then back up to the room. “And I’m afraid you’re not likely to like it.”
“是的。”他点点头，眼睛扫向她，然后又回到房间里。“而且我担心你不太可能喜欢它。”

Cold flooded Hermione’s veins. “They haven’t denied it?” she asked, her voice choked. Kingsley's silence spoke volumes. “Outright?”
寒冷淹没了赫敏的血管。“他们没有否认吗？” 她问道，声音哽咽。金斯利的沉默说明了一切。“直接？”

Kingsley nodded slowly, his lips pressed in a thin line. “No allowances.” 
金斯莱缓缓地点点头，他的嘴唇紧贴成一条细线。“没有津贴。”

“But Kingsley –”
“可是金斯利——”

“They acknowledged that it’s surprising that Lucius would be involved in helping you,” Kingsley said over Hermione’s attempt at protestation, “and that it might well be a sign of some kind of larger attitudinal shift. But it’s not enough for them, I'm afraid. It doesn’t, they say, help the wider wizarding community in any significant way.”
“他们承认卢修斯会参与帮助你，这很令人惊讶，”金斯莱对赫敏的抗议尝试说，“这很可能是某种更大态度转变的迹象。但恐怕这对他们来说还不够。他们说，这对更广泛的巫师社区没有任何重大帮助。

“It’s not financial contrition, they mean,” Hermione said with a dismissive scoff. "It doesn't pay for their next big statue."
“他们的意思是，这不是经济上的悔恨，”赫敏轻蔑地嘲笑着说。“这并不能为他们的下一个大雕像买单。”

“That’s not what they mean, Hermione.” Kingsley’s tone was stern, reproving. “You'll find he can’t pay his way out of this either. The Wizengamot thinks that Lucius helping you has a narrow field of beneficiaries. It’s even more narrow if you’re struggling to get published, though it isn’t aware of that yet.”
“他们不是这个意思，赫敏。”金斯莱的语气严厉，带着责备。“你会发现他也付不起这笔钱。威森加摩认为卢修斯帮助你的受益者范围很窄。如果你正在努力发表，那就更狭窄了，尽管它还没有意识到这一点。

“I will get published, Kingsley. This –”
“我会出版的，金斯利。这——”

“It won’t matter if you do, Hermione. They’ve made their decision.”
“你这样做也没关系，赫敏。他们已经做出了决定。

Swallowing, Hermione was mortified to feel the stinging in her nose that usually signalled angry tears were on the horizon. She clenched her jaw in an effort to hold them back. After she’d insisted that Lucius let her try. After telling him that it would give him a better chance. She felt like a naive little fool.
吞咽着，赫敏感到鼻子里的刺痛感感到羞愧，这通常预示着愤怒的眼泪即将出现。她咬紧下巴，试图阻止他们。在她坚持让卢修斯让她试试之后。在告诉他这会给他更好的机会之后。她觉得自己像个天真的小傻瓜。

“They didn’t say they don’t want to hear from him again,” Kingsley continued, a soothing quality to his voice. “They were interested by the change that seems to be taking place. Perhaps the next thing he does – whether for you or someone else – will better show his willingness to return to the wizarding world to make positive changes.”
“他们没有说不想再听到他的消息，”金斯利继续说道，他的声音里带着一种舒缓的品质。“他们对似乎正在发生的变化很感兴趣。也许他所做的下一件事——无论是为了你还是其他人——会更好地表明他愿意回到魔法世界做出积极的改变。

“What chance has he got to show that willingness if they won’t let him out of this manor?” Hermione asked angrily, her voice slightly thicker than usual.
“如果他们不让他离开这个庄园，他有什么机会表现出这种意愿呢？”赫敏生气地问道，她的声音比平时略显粗重。

“I’m afraid that’s something for him to figure out,” Kingsley said lightly. “Not us.”
“恐怕他要弄清楚，”金斯利淡淡地说。“不是我们。”

“But we –”
“可是——”

“Don’t owe him anything, Hermione.” There was a finality to Kingsley’s tone that made Hermione look up at him, blinking away a slight glaze that had formed over her eyes. She found Kingsley already looking back at her, his face firm. “Now, have you considered my offer any further?”
“别欠他什么，赫敏。”金斯莱的语气中带着一种终结，让赫敏抬头看着他，眨了眨眼，消除了她眼睛上形成的轻微呆滞。她发现金斯利已经回头看着她，脸色坚定。“现在，你有没有进一步考虑过我的提议？”

Hermione didn’t need to ask what the offer was. There was only one offer. Would she join his project to roll back the Pureblood laws? That was the question. One she hadn’t given nearly enough consideration.
赫敏不需要问这个提议是什么。只有一个报价。她会加入他的计划来推翻纯血法吗？这就是问题所在。她几乎没有考虑过。

“I have but I’ve just been a little –”
“我有，但我只是有点——”

“Distracted,” Kingsley finished for her, sounding disappointed of all things. She hated disappointment. 
“分心了，”金斯利替她说完，听起来对一切都很失望。她讨厌失望。

“Yes.”
“是的。”

There was a pause in which Kingsley swung his hands behind his back and nodded, his eyes drifting to the Wheezebox that was nearest him. There were two people beside it, listening intently. “I think I am a patient man, Hermione,” Kingsley said slowly. “Particularly given how busy I am.”
停顿了一下，Kingsley将双手在背后摆动，点了点头，他的眼睛飘向离他最近的Wheezebox。旁边有两个人，聚精会神地听着。“我觉得我是个有耐心的人，赫敏，”金斯莱缓缓地说。“特别是考虑到我有多忙。”

“Kingsley –”
“金斯利——”

“And while I can understand that this – your book – is important to you, I am afraid I am going to have to press you.” His eyes cut away from the wider room to hers. “The wizarding world – the real world that continues to move inexorably forward outside the walls of this manor – could use your help in tackling the outdated laws that do it a disservice. It cannot wait. If that’s really not something you wish to be a part of then I want to know now.”
“虽然我能理解这本书——你的书——对你很重要，但恐怕我得逼迫你。”他的目光从更宽阔的房间里移开，看向她。“魔法世界——在这个庄园的围墙外继续无情地向前发展的现实世界——可能需要你的帮助来解决对它有害的过时法律。它不能等待。如果那真的不是你希望参与的事情，那么我现在就想知道。

“It’s not that I don’t want to be a part of it, Kingsley,” Hermione assured him hurriedly. Because that wasn’t it. She’d wanted an opportunity like the one he was offering her for a long time but the timing was so inconvenient. “That’s not it.” 
“不是我不想成为其中的一部分，金斯莱，”赫敏急忙向他保证。因为那不是她一直想要一个像他长期以来给她的机会，但时机太不方便了。“不是这样。”

“Then am I to understand that you’re accepting my offer?”
“那么我能明白你是在接受我的提议吗？”

“That’s – I’m just –” Hermione huffed out a sigh, blowing her fringe out of her increasingly warm face. “Yes, I suppose I am accepting your offer in a sense, Kingsley, but –”
“那是——我只是——”赫敏叹了口气，吹掉了她越来越温暖的脸上的刘海。“是的，我想我在某种意义上接受了你的提议，金斯莱，但是——”

“Excellent,” Kingsley said, rolling momentarily onto his toes as a triumphant smile flitted over his face. “Then I will schedule a meeting for us to go over the final details of the arrangement next week. Expect my owl, Hermione.”
“太好了，”金斯利说，脚趾一会儿翻滚着，脸上闪过一丝胜利的笑容。“然后我会安排一次会议，让我们在下周讨论安排的最终细节。等着我的猫头鹰吧，赫敏。

Before Hermione could say anything else or do anything but gape, Kingsley purposefully pushed off on one foot and began a swift walk towards the exit of the ballroom, his magnificent scarlet robes sweeping behind him. 
赫敏还没来得及说什么，也没来得及做任何事情，金斯莱就故意单脚推开，开始快步走向舞厅的出口，他华丽的猩红色长袍在他身后扫过。

Bloody Kingsley. Shoulders slumping, Hermione ran an exasperated hand over her clammy forehead. Bloody Wizengamot . Turning on the spot, she looked at the sea of people around her and felt suddenly like she might drown. Too many of them were watching her, clearly keen to find out what she and the Minister for Magic had been discussing with such intensity.
血腥的金斯利。 赫敏耷拉着肩膀，恼怒地用一只手抚摸着她湿漉漉的额头。 血腥的威森加摩 .她原地转过身来，看着周围的人海，突然觉得自己快要淹死了。他们中有太多人在看着她，显然很想知道她和魔法部长一直在如此激烈地讨论什么。

She had to talk to Lucius. To tell him. About what Kingsley had said about the Wizengamot. About the laws she was going to be working on. They had to come up with a plan for his next steps because this couldn’t possibly be it . 
她得跟卢修斯谈谈。告诉他。关于金斯莱对威森加摩的评价。关于她将要制定的法律。他们必须为他的下一步制定一个计划，因为这不可能。

Taking a deep breath, Hermione searched the room for Draco’s white blonde hair like it was a lifeline. He’d be able to sneak her out just so that she could just speak to Lucius, just –
赫敏深吸一口气，在房间里寻找德拉科的白金发，就像它是一条救生索一样。他可以偷偷把她偷偷溜出去，这样她就可以和卢修斯说话了，只是——

There .
那里。

Sighing with relief, Hermione jolted forward when she saw the lithe figure of Draco across the ballroom. He was flanked by a content Luna, who was sipping a martini, and a very sour, resentful Pansy, while speaking with – Hermione stopped abruptly. Narcissa Malfoy. 
赫敏松了一口气，当她看到舞厅对面德拉科轻盈的身影时，她猛地向前冲去。他的两侧是心满意足的卢娜，她正在啜饮马提尼酒，还有一个非常酸涩、怨恨的三色堇，正在和他说话——赫敏突然停了下来。纳西莎·马尔福。

Tall, thin and strikingly beautiful in silvery-blue dress robes, Narcissa stood speaking to her son, seemingly without any awareness of the two girls standing beside him. Their conversation appeared to be tense, with Narcissa speaking more than her son in an almost interrogative fashion. Perhaps catching the stock-still figure of Hermione in the rippling crowd in his periphery, Draco fractionally turned his head and met her eye. 
身材高挑、瘦削、身穿银蓝色礼服长袍的纳西莎站在那里与她的儿子交谈，似乎完全没有注意到站在他身边的两个女孩。他们的谈话似乎很紧张，纳西莎以一种近乎质问的方式比她的儿子说得更多。也许是看到了赫敏在周围荡漾的人群中静止不动的身影，德拉科微微转过头来，与她的目光相遇。

There was a grim set to his jaw as he subtly shook his head in a way that told Hermione it would be best if she didn’t approach. Before she could turn away, however, Narcissa followed her son’s gaze and spotted Hermione for herself.
他的下巴变得严肃起来，他巧妙地摇了摇头，告诉赫敏最好不要靠近。然而，在她转身离开之前，纳西莎顺着儿子的目光，亲眼发现了赫敏。

“Ah, Hermione Granger.” Narcissa’s voice was cut glass in every sense of the word as it carried across the small space of the ballroom that separated them. “The guest of honour, I’m told.”
“啊，赫敏·格兰杰。”纳西莎的声音在任何意义上都是被切割的玻璃，因为它传遍了将他们分开的宴会厅的狭小空间。“我听说是主宾。”

Draco’s nostrils flared slightly as he sighed, casting an irritable look at some of the guests who had looked around with interest at Narcissa’s declaration. Swapping the shake of his head for an impatient, jerky nod, he invited Hermione to approach with an unspoken ‘and be quick about it’. Despite that, Hermione did so hesitantly, unwillingly, not entirely certain she was in the correct frame of mind to be encountering Narcissa Malfoy. 
德拉科叹了口气，鼻孔微微张开，恼怒地看了一眼那些饶有兴趣地四处张望着纳西莎宣言的客人。他把摇头换成了不耐烦、生涩的点头，他邀请赫敏走近，说了一句无声的“快点”。尽管如此，赫敏还是犹豫不决，不情愿地，不完全确定她是否处于正确的心态中遇到纳西莎·马尔福。

“Mrs – Narci –” Hermione swallowed each of her greetings and, with a panicked look at an eye-rolling Draco, finally settled on a quiet, “Hello.”
“太太——纳西——”赫敏吞下了她的每一个问候，惊慌地看了一眼翻白眼的德拉科，最后平静地说道，“你好。

Narcissa did not alleviate Hermione’s discomfort by offering her a preferred form of address. Instead, she increased it by giving her nothing more than a cold smile and a single, slow nod. 
纳西莎并没有通过给赫敏提供一种首选的称呼方式来减轻她的不适。相反，她只给了她一个冰冷的微笑和一个缓慢的点头，从而加剧了这种情绪。

“You’re supposed to be talking to publishers,” Draco said, his voice little more than a grumble. “Not floating about in the middle of the room like a piece of gillyweed that’s broken off its holdfast.”
“你应该和出版商谈谈，”德拉科说，他的声音只不过是抱怨。“而不是像一棵脱离了固定物的钼草一样漂浮在房间中央。”

“I was ,” Hermione insisted, trying to ignore the strange, piercing feeling that accompanied being inspected by Narcissa Malfoy. It was what she imagined lasers might feel like. “I was doing quite well, too, but I had to talk to Kingsley and –”
“我是，”赫敏坚持道，试图忽略伴随着纳西莎·马尔福检查而来的奇怪、刺痛的感觉。这就是她想象中的激光可能是什么感觉。“我也过得很好，但我得跟金斯利谈谈，然后——”

“It’s very nice of Mr Malfoy to do this for you, Hermione,” Luna piped up from Draco’s side, attracting the eyes of everyone in the small group. “You must have really won him over. But you’re much better at listening than you used to be; I’m sure that helped.”
“马尔福先生能为你做这件事真是太好了，赫敏，”卢娜从德拉科的身边站起来，吸引了小团体中每个人的目光。“你一定真的赢得了他的青睐。但你比以前更善于倾听;我确信这有帮助。

Not entirely sure how to respond to that, Hermione did nothing more than make a small, almost frightened wheezing sound that drew raised eyebrows from Pansy and a sharp look from Narcissa.
赫敏不完全确定该如何回应，只不过发出了一声小小的、几乎是惊恐的喘息声，这引起了潘西扬起的眉毛和纳西莎的尖锐目光。

“Is he home?” Luna continued before taking a sip of her martini and blinking owlishly at Draco over the rim of the glass.
“他在家吗？”卢娜继续说，然后喝了一口马提尼酒，隔着玻璃杯边缘对着德拉科眨了眨眼。

“My –” 
“我的——”

“Your father,” Luna confirmed with a nod when she had completely swallowed her sip.
“你的爸爸，”当 Luna 完全吞下她的啜饮时点头确认。

“Yes,” Draco said hesitantly, his eyes flitting briefly to his mother, “but he’s –”
“是的，”德拉科犹豫地说，他的眼睛短暂地扫向他的母亲，“但他是——”

“Not…able to attend,” Hermione finished for him and he nodded fervently.
“不......能够参加，“赫敏为他说完，他热切地点点头。

Luna made a small noise of disappointment, her lips pursing. “I know you don’t know about the Blibbering Humdingers, Draco, but I’m sure he will. I’d love him to talk to me like he talked with Hermione.”
Luna 发出一声失望的小声，她的嘴唇抿着。“我知道你不知道那些喋喋不休的Humdingers，Draco，但我相信他会的。我希望他能像和赫敏说话一样跟我说话。

Narcissa blinked rapidly at Luna, then at Hermione, then at her son, like she was struggling to process the conversation taking place around her. Taking a deep breath, Narcissa laid a hand on Draco’s arm. “Excuse me,” she said tightly and, though she was addressing Draco, her eyes were fixed on the exit across the room. 
纳西莎快速地对卢娜眨了眨眼，然后是赫敏，然后是她的儿子，就像她正在努力处理周围的对话一样。深吸一口气，纳西莎将一只手放在德拉科的手臂上。“对不起，”她紧紧地说，虽然她是在对德拉科说话，但她的眼睛还是盯着房间对面的出口。

“Mother,” he said, his voice low as his eyes followed the direction of hers, “the Aurors –”
“妈妈，”他说，他的声音很低，眼睛跟着她的方向，“傲罗们——”

“Won't say a thing,” Narcissa said, her chin raised and her voice confident. “Not to me. Not here .”
“什么都不说，”纳西莎说，她抬起下巴，声音自信。“对我来说不是。不在这里。

Swallowing, Hermione watched Narcissa click across the ballroom in her stilettos, moving through the crowd with sylph-like ease. After a moment, she slipped out of the door and, sure enough, she was not sent back. Blinking, Hermione’s attention came back to their small group and she found Draco frowning at her pinched expression. 
赫敏咽了口口水，看着纳西莎穿着细高跟鞋在舞厅里咔哒咔哒地走来走去，像仙女一样轻松地穿过人群。过了一会儿，她溜出了门，果然，她没有被送回去。眨了眨眼，赫敏的注意力又回到了他们那一小群人身上，她发现德拉科正皱着眉头看着她紧绷的表情。

“It’ll be fine, Granger,” he said stiffly, clearly unsure about how he was supposed to feel about what was happening. “They’ll just…” 
“会没事的，格兰杰，”他僵硬地说，显然不确定他对所发生的事情应该有什么感觉。“他们只会......”

Trailing off, Draco lifted his glass to his lips and, tipping his head back, drained it of champagne as effectively as he had just drained Hermione of confidence.
德拉科把酒杯举到嘴边，把头往后仰，像刚刚耗尽赫敏的信心一样有效地喝掉了香槟。

“I think we’re being dragged into some kind of psychodrama,” Pansy said, leaning around Draco to speak to Luna in an undertone. 
“我觉得我们被拖进了某种心理剧中，”潘西说，靠在德拉科身边，低声对卢娜说话。

“Oh, how exciting!” Luna exclaimed, clapping her hands in a way that made her radish earrings tremble with excitement.  
“哦，多么令人兴奋！”露娜惊呼道，拍手的方式让她的萝卜耳环兴奋地颤抖着。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

I'm back after a little break with a nice long chapter! Thanks all for your patience <3
休息一会儿后，我带着一个不错的长章回来了！感谢大家的耐心等待 <3

Chapter 33
第 33 章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Narcissa and Lucius go head to head
纳西莎和卢修斯正面交锋

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thank you for the kind welcome back <3 Now let's dig in to the drama
感谢您的热烈欢迎 <3 现在让我们深入了解这部剧

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾Lucius was struggling to focus, despite being the very picture of ease. He was seated behind his desk, reclined with his legs crossed. He had a book lifted in front of his eyes as though blocking out the room might force him to actually read the words. Every time he tried, however, he found that his thoughts drifted to the event he knew was happening in the Manor’s ballroom. 
卢修斯正在努力集中注意力，尽管他看起来非常轻松。他坐在书桌后面，双腿交叉斜靠着。他把一本书举在眼前，仿佛挡住了房间可能会迫使他真正阅读这些文字。然而，每次他尝试时，他都会发现他的思绪飘向了他知道发生在庄园宴会厅的事件。

Had Draco managed to get Hermione there? Had he managed to get anyone there? Was she doing as he wanted? Or was she fighting tooth and nail at the threshold to the room, determined to rain hexes down on him?
德拉科设法把赫敏带到那里了吗？他设法把人弄到那里了吗？她是否按照他的意愿做了？还是她在房间的门槛上咬牙切齿地战斗，决心向他下雨？

Lucius’ rumination was interrupted by a sharp knock on the door and the rattle of the handle turning. Sighing, he squeezed his eyes closed and tried to channel some patience as he raised his voice into the pages of the book.
卢修斯的沉思被一阵尖锐的敲门声和门把手转动的嘎嘎声打断了。他叹了口气，闭上眼睛，试图在提高声音对着书页中传递一些耐心。

"I told Draco he was to keep you downstairs to speak to the publishers. You can't –”
“我告诉德拉科，他会让你留在楼下和出版商谈谈。你不能——”

“Don't fret, Lucius.” 
“别担心，卢修斯。”

Lucius stiffened at the sound of the familiar but entirely unexpected voice, his grip on his book tightening so that the tips of his fingers went white. 
卢修斯听到这个熟悉但完全出乎意料的声音，身体僵硬了起来，他抓着书的手越来越紧，以至于他的指尖都发白了。

“She's still downstairs. Staying . Doing as she's told. You always were an assiduous trainer.”
“她还在楼下。 住。按照她的指示去做。你一直都是个勤奋的教练。

Lowering the book from in front of his face, Lucius looked to the doorway where Narcissa was sliding into the room and closing the door behind her with a gentle click . His eyes swivelled to his firewhiskey sitting by his elbow, assessing how much he'd had to drink. Not enough for hallucinations this convincing, unfortunately. 
卢修斯把书从面前放下，看向门口，纳西莎正滑进房间，轻轻地咔嗒一声关上了她身后的门。他的眼睛转向坐在他手肘上的火威士忌，评估他喝了多少酒。不幸的是，这还不足以让幻觉如此令人信服。

"Narcissa," he said, his voice catching on his own surprise and forcing him to clear his throat. "What are you doing here?"
“纳西莎，”他说，他的声音让自己感到惊讶，迫使他清了清嗓子。“你在这里做什么？”

"Here." She weighed the word with an affected pondering slowness as she meandered forwards into the room, her hands clasped behind her back. "That’s very general , Lucius. Do you mean the country, this manor, or your study?"
“给你。”她缓慢地斟酌着这个词，双手紧握着，蜿蜒向前走进了房间。“这很笼统，卢修斯。你是说这个国家，这个庄园，还是你的书房？

Lucius eyed her straight-backed posture and the commanding way she looked down her nose. Classic signs that their chat was not going to be overly friendly. Not surprising; he couldn’t remember the last time they’d had one of those. “All three.” He closed his book with a snap and set it on the desk to convey his expectation of a good answer.
卢修斯看着她挺直的背姿，以及她低头看着鼻子的威严。典型的迹象表明他们的聊天不会过于友好。这并不奇怪;他不记得他们上一次有这样的一次是什么时候了。“三个都。”他啪地一声合上了书，把它放在桌子上，以表达他对好答案的期望。

Narcissa nodded as though that’s exactly the response she had expected from him. “Well,” she said on an exhale, dropping her hands to her sides, “the first two are rather tied up in one another, I suppose. My grandchild is to be born soon and naturally I wish to be here for the occasion. And, of course, to lend my support as an attentive mother and grandmother.”
纳西莎点点头，仿佛这正是她期望从他那里得到的回应。“嗯，”她呼出一口气说，双手垂到身体两侧，“我想，前两个是相当紧密地联系在一起的。我的孙子很快就要出生了，我自然希望能在这里参加这个活动。当然，作为一位细心的母亲和祖母，我也会给予支持。

Lucius raised a brow without comment, wondering how welcoming or appreciative Astoria would be towards such support. The relationship between Narcissa and her daughter-in-law had never been warm or especially affectionate, much like his own. On more than one occasion Narcissa had made it clear that she didn’t approve of Draco’s choice of wife. Of course, that stemmed in part from the fact that Narcissa was an adoring mother and utterly besotted with her child. Lucius had a feeling that Astoria would be the same. He hoped they would find some common ground there, otherwise clashes would be inevitable. 
卢修斯扬起眉毛，没有发表评论，想知道阿斯托利亚对这样的支持会有多欢迎或感激。纳西莎和她儿媳之间的关系从来没有像他那样温暖或特别深情。纳西莎不止一次明确表示她不赞成德拉科选择的妻子。当然，这在一定程度上是因为 Narcissa 是一位充满爱心的母亲，并且对她的孩子完全着迷。卢修斯有一种感觉，阿斯托利亚也会是一样的。他希望他们能在那里找到一些共同点，否则冲突将是不可避免的。

“And the third...” Narcissa stopped in front of his desk and delicately brushed some dust Lucius could not see from the wood, raising her hand to inspect her fingers with the disapproving air of a woman who thought standards had slipped. “Well, I'm curious.” 
“还有第三个......”纳西莎停在他的书桌前，小心翼翼地拂去一些卢修斯从木头上看不到的灰尘，抬起手检查自己的手指，带着一个认为标准滑落的女人的不赞成的语气。“嗯，我很好奇。”

“Curious.” Lucius weighed the word carefully in his mouth, as though not entirely sure of what she could mean by it. 
“好奇。”卢修斯在嘴里仔细斟酌着这个词，似乎不完全确定她会说什么。

“About some of the things I've overheard this evening. Would you like to know what they are?” 
“关于我今晚无意中听到的一些事情。你想知道它们是什么吗？

Lowering his arm onto his desk, Lucius did not bother to sit forward as he lazily waved a hand in invitation for her to continue. He was fully cognizant that a request to stop or leave would not be heeded, so he might as well act like a willing participant in the conversation. There was power in that, minimal as it was. 
卢修斯把手臂放到桌子上，懒洋洋地挥手邀请她继续。他完全意识到停止或离开的要求不会得到重视，因此他不如表现得像一个自愿参与对话的人。这其中有力量，尽管它很小。

“Quite a few people down there are labouring under the misapprehension that we're still married, for one thing, Lucius.” Her tone was stern, her lips tight at the corners as she fixed him with a stony, accusing stare.
“那里有不少人在误以为我们还结婚了，一方面，卢修斯。”她的语气很严厉，嘴角紧抿着，用坚硬、指责的目光盯着他。

“I have not –”
“我没有——”

“I corrected them, of course,” Narcissa continued smoothly over his attempt to speak.
“当然，我纠正了他们，”纳西莎继续平稳地试图说话。

His jaw clenched shut momentarily. He had arranged no formal announcement for a reason – no one needed to know but them. Certainly, anyone that would take any interest in the information was not the kind of person that he wanted to have it. 
他的下巴瞬间紧紧地合上了。他没有安排正式的宣布是有原因的——除了他们之外，没有人需要知道。当然，任何对这些信息感兴趣的人都不是他想要拥有的那种人。

“You had no right to do that, Narcissa,” he said, his voice cold. 
“你没有权利那样做，纳西莎，”他说，声音冰冷。

“Didn't I?” Narcissa laughed delicately, her pale eyebrows rising in a slightly pitying way that made his collar feel too tight. “I think I had every right. It is – was – my marriage as much as yours, Lucius. Even if you did have a tendency to forget that.”
“不是吗？”纳西莎轻轻地笑了起来，她苍白的眉毛略带怜悯地上扬，让他的衣领感觉太紧了。“我认为我完全有权利。这是——曾经是——我的婚姻，也是你的婚姻，卢修斯。即使你确实有忘记这一点的倾向。

Lucius shifted in his chair, like he was having to physically restrain himself from rising to Narcissa’s bait. For the most part, his own desires had not come into the conclusion of his marriage. What was best for everyone involved had. 
卢修斯在椅子上挪动了一下，就像他不得不用身体克制自己不敢上纳西莎的诱饵一样。在大多数情况下，他自己的欲望并没有成为他婚姻的结论。对每个参与者来说最好的东西都有。

“I was also interested in your recent decision to behave like a Pensive that’s been dropped and left to… seep .” She said the word ‘seep’ like it was something unseemly which, to be fair, it was. “The way I hear it, you've spoken more in the last six months than you have in the last six years or more. Has Draco been slipping you babbling draughts?”
“我也对你最近决定表现得像个沉思者很感兴趣，这个决定已经被抛弃了......渗出。她说“渗”这个词，好像它是不体面的东西，公平地说，它确实是。“在我看来，你在过去六个月里说的话比你过去六年或更长时间说的都多。德拉科有没有给你溜走咿呀呀的草稿？

Reaching out, Narcissa plucked Lucius crystal glass from the desk and took a drink of the firewhiskey within. When she didn't return the glass to its place and instead kept it loosely hanging in her grasp, Lucius sighed through his nose and pushed himself to his feet. 
纳西莎伸出手，从桌子上拿出卢修斯的水晶杯，喝了一口里面的火威士忌。当她没有把杯子放回原处，而是松散地挂在手里时，卢修斯用鼻子叹了口气，然后站了起来。

Without casting even a glance of resentment at Narcissa, he walked around the desk and passed her to get to his drink trolley where he set about pouring himself a fresh glass. He had a feeling he was going to need it. 
他没有向纳西莎投去哪怕一丝怨恨的眼神，绕着桌子走了一圈，经过她，走到他的饮料车前，开始给自己倒一杯新鲜的酒。他有一种感觉，他会需要它。

When he turned back, he found her still at the desk but facing him, leaning against its edge as she cradled what had been his glass between her long, delicate fingers. He couldn’t help but seek out her empty ring finger. She hadn't returned the engagement ring – it had been an heirloom – but he had no intention of asking for it. He supposed she deserved to keep it, given everything. 
当他回头时，他发现她仍然坐在书桌前，但面对着他，靠在书桌的边缘，她用修长纤细的手指抱着曾经的杯子。他忍不住寻找她空荡荡的无名指。她没有归还订婚戒指——它是一件传家宝——但他无意要它。他认为她应该保留它，考虑到一切。

“What’s happening downstairs, Lucius?” She asked the question innocently enough but there was something in her tone that made Lucius stand up straighter, on his guard. 
“楼下发生了什么事，Lucius？”她天真地问了这个问题，但她的语气中有一些东西让卢修斯站直了身子，警惕起来。

“It’s an event, Narcissa,” he replied stiffly. “A cocktail party. I’d have thought you of all people would recognise one of those given how many of them you organised in that very room.”
“这是个事件，纳西莎，”他生硬地回答。“鸡尾酒会。我本以为你会认出其中的一个，因为你在那个房间里组织了多少人。

“Draco told me it’s for the Granger girl.” Narcissa looked down into the glass she was holding and swirled some of the firewhiskey inside. “Is it?”
“德拉科告诉我这是给格兰杰女孩的。”纳西莎低头看了看她手里的玻璃杯，掀起了一些里面的火威士忌。“是吗？”

“Yes.” 
“是的。”

There was no point in denying it. Not if Draco had already told her the truth. He had always been terrible at hiding things from her. Lucius could still well remember the day that Draco had told her – after he had specifically warned him not to – that he had taken him into Borgin and Burkes. The cries of “what if he’d touched something?” still rang in his ears.
否认它没有意义。如果德拉科已经告诉了她真相，就不会。他一直很不善于向她隐瞒事情。卢修斯仍然清楚地记得德拉科告诉她的那一天——在他明确警告他不要这样做之后——他已经带他去见了博金和伯克斯。“如果他碰到了什么怎么办”的呼喊声仍然在他耳边响起。

A small nod from Narcissa into her drink was just about visible to him. 
纳西莎对着她的饮料轻轻点了点头，他几乎能看到。

“You know, at first I thought it might be one of those clumsy attempts at repentance that Draco and Astoria developed a certain passion for all those years ago,” she said. “But then I found out it was all your idea.” She looked up and into his face, her eyes narrowing slightly. “Your generosity has been commented upon several times tonight, Lucius. Am I to take it that you have become a charity?”
“你知道，起初我以为这可能是德拉科和阿斯托利亚在那些年里对忏悔的笨拙尝试之一，”她说。“但后来我发现这都是你的主意。”她抬起头，看着他的脸，眼睛微微眯起。“卢修斯，你的慷慨今晚已经被评论了好几次了。难道我就认为你已经成为一个慈善机构了吗？

“It is not an act of charity.”
“这不是慈善行为。”

“No?”
“没有？”

“No.”
“不。”

Narcissa hummed softly and took another drink, assessing him over the rim of the glass. “You never were the charitable sort, I suppose,” she finally said when she’d lowered the glass. “Not in the true sense of the word. I assume that means you’re getting something out of it – your little collaboration with her.”
纳西莎轻声哼了一声，又喝了一口，越过杯子的边缘打量着他。“我想，你从来就不是那种慈善家，”她放下酒杯后终于说。“不是真正意义上的。我想这意味着你从中得到了一些东西——你和她的小小合作。

Clearing his throat, Lucius considered the woman before him. The woman that he had allowed to know him better than anyone else. He was at his most and least comfortable with her. Just what was he willing to admit to Narcissa that he had gotten out of his collaboration with Hermione? And what would she be able to surmise he was getting without any explicit admissions?
清清嗓子，卢修斯看着眼前的女人。那个被他允许的女人比任何人都更了解他。他对她最舒服也是最不舒服的时候。他到底愿意向纳西莎承认他从与赫敏的合作中得到了什么？在没有任何明确承认的情况下，她又能推测他会得到什么呢？

“Hermione vowed to advocate to the Ministry on my behalf if I agreed to work with her,” he said stiffly.  
“赫敏发誓，如果我同意和她合作，就代表我向魔法部辩护，”他生硬地说。

“Advocate to the Ministry for…” Narcissa raised her eyebrows and swung the glass of firewhiskey wide in invitation of elaboration. 
“向魔法部倡导......”纳西莎扬起眉毛，把火威士忌杯甩得大大的，以示详细阐述。

“My magic. And my freedom.”
“我的魔法。还有我的自由。

“I see.”
“我明白了。”

She went quiet, inspecting him thoughtfully. It had been quite a long time since Lucius had been subject to Narcissa’s scrutiny and he’d forgotten how piercing her blue eyes could be. 
她安静下来，若有所思地打量着他。卢修斯已经很久没有受到纳西莎的审视了，他已经忘记了她的蓝眼睛有多么刺眼。

“A long time ago,” she said, mercifully lowering her gaze so that her long, pale lashes appeared to almost brush her cheeks, “you insisted that you no longer needed either of those things. In fact –” Narcissa cleared her throat softly and raised her eyes to his again. “ – I believe you told me that my suggestions for ways we might work together to restore our public image were pathetic . And beneath us.”
“很久以前，”她说，仁慈地低下目光，使她那长长的、苍白的睫毛似乎几乎拂过她的脸颊，“你坚持说你不再需要那些东西了。事实上——“纳西莎轻声清了清嗓子，再次抬起眼睛看向他。“ – 我相信你告诉我，我对我们如何共同努力恢复我们的公众形象的建议是可悲的。在我们下面。

Had he said those things? Vaguely he could recall that he had, the memories like watching himself through a thick, distorted pane of glass. He had said them quite angrily, in fact. 
他说过那些话吗？他依稀记得自己曾经有过，那些记忆就像透过一块厚厚的、扭曲的玻璃板看着自己。事实上，他说这句话时是相当生气的。

When he’d been at his most bitter he had decided that he no longer wanted the magic that the rest of the Wizarding World had. He no longer wanted magic if it was considered equal to a Mudblood’s. He hadn’t wanted his freedom either – what was the point of the Wizarding World outside of the Manor, he’d thought then, if it wasn’t the world he wanted? Why should he participate in it? If they weren't willing to give him Azkaban then he would act as though they had.
当他处于最痛苦的时候，他决定不再想要魔法世界其他人所拥有的魔法。如果魔法被认为与泥巴种的魔法相等，他就不再想要魔法了。他也不想获得自由——他当时想，如果这不是他想要的世界，那么庄园外的魔法世界又有什么意义呢？他为什么要参加呢？如果他们不愿意给他阿兹卡班，那么他就会表现得好像他们愿意一样。

Every time Narcissa had suggested that there might be a way for him to get his life back, he had told her that he didn’t want it. Because he’d known it wouldn’t really be anything like the life he’d once had. And that had been the truth. Nothing outside the walls of Malfoy Manor had interested him for even a second. 
每次纳西莎建议他或许有办法让他恢复自己的生活时，他都告诉她他不想要。因为他知道这不会真的像他曾经的生活那样。这就是事实。马尔福庄园的围墙外没有任何东西让他感兴趣。

“We have a grandchild on the way, Narcissa, as you pointed out,” he said quietly. “Circumstances change.”
“我们有一个孙子在路上，纳西莎，正如你指出的，”他平静地说。“情况会发生变化。”

“I am very aware that they do, Lucius,” she said. “Sometimes beyond recognition.” There was a pause, during which they eyed one another, an unusual apprehensiveness in both of them, before Narcissa added, “I listened to some of your conversations with her downstairs. Remarkably open.’
“我很清楚他们是这样，卢修斯，”她说。“有时面目全非。”停顿了一会儿，他们互相看着对方，两人都带着一种不同寻常的担忧，然后纳西莎补充道，“我在楼下听了你和她的一些对话。非常开放。

Lucius supposed he had been open. Eventually. Certainly, he’d been honest. “It took time to get to that,” he said.
卢修斯以为他已经敞开心扉了。最终。当然，他是诚实的。“花了时间才明白，”他说。

“How much time?” Narcissa asked, lifting her glass up slightly to check that she still had enough firewhiskey. “More than all the years we were married?”
“多少时间？”纳西莎问道，微微举起杯子，检查她是否还有足够的火威士忌。“比我们结婚这么多年还多？”

Lucius’ brow flattened into a perplexed frown. “Don’t be ridiculous –”
卢修斯的眉头皱成了困惑的眉头。“别荒谬——”

“Is it?” Narcissa asked, her voice light but with an undeniable sharpness to it. “Is it ridiculous? Forgive me, Lucius, for struggling to imagine why you would spend years pushing me away but allow a stranger in so far within mere months.”
“是吗？”纳西莎问道，她的声音很轻，但不可否认地带着一种尖锐。“这很荒谬吗？原谅我，卢修斯，你很难想象为什么你会花几年时间把我推开，却在短短几个月内让一个陌生人进来。

Lucius swallowed. He hadn't just let Hermione in. She had forced her way in with anger and stubbornness. But then she had made it feel like she was always supposed to be there. "It’s complex, Narcissa."
卢修斯咽了口口水。他不只是让赫敏进来。她带着愤怒和固执强行闯了进来。但后来她让她觉得自己应该一直在那里。“这很复杂，纳西莎。”

She scoffed. "Oh, please, Lucius. Your feelings around consorting with Mudbloods have never been complex before. They were always one of the most straightforward things about you. Why could you find it in yourself to talk to this…this girl ? At what point did you decide you could stand to have a Mudblood in your company when you could not abide mine? I deserve to know."
她嘲笑道。“哦，拜托了，卢修斯。你对与 Mudbloods 交往的感受从未如此复杂。他们一直是你最直接的事情之一。你为什么能发现自己和这个谈谈......这个女孩？你是什么时候决定，当你无法忍受我的公司时，你可以忍受一个泥巴种在你的公司里？我值得知道。

Lucius tightened his grip on his glass, his nostrils flaring at the distaste with which Narcissa said 'Mudblood'. Had he always looked as angry and disgusted when he had said the word? Had it contorted his upper lip in the same way? Made his voice come so close to a hiss? 
卢修斯紧紧握住了他的酒杯，他的鼻孔因纳西莎说“泥巴种”而感到厌恶。当他说出这个词时，他总是看起来生气和厌恶吗？它以同样的方式扭曲了他的上唇吗？他的声音变得如此接近嘶嘶声？

"Because she already hated me," he spat. There was truth in that. Once he'd known she wasn't planning to sell his every secret to the press, he'd found it surprisingly easy to tell Hermione things because she expected the worst from him. For a brief time, it had almost been enjoyable to confirm some of her worst thoughts. Her hatred had been such a comfort to him that he’d been alarmed when he’d lost it. "Because I didn’t care about seeing that hatred on her face when I spoke to her."
“因为她已经恨我了，”他啐了一口。这是有道理的。一旦他知道她不打算把他的每一个秘密都卖给媒体，他就发现告诉赫敏事情出奇地容易，因为她对他有最坏的期望。有那么一小段时间，确认她最糟糕的想法几乎是一件令人愉快的事情。她的憎恨对他来说是一种安慰，以至于当他失去憎恨时，他感到震惊。“因为我不在乎在和她说话时看到她脸上的仇恨。”

There was a subtle jump in Narcissa's neck as she swallowed. "And you couldn’t stand the idea that I might hate you, is that what you’re saying?"
纳西莎的脖子在吞咽时微微跳动。“而且你受不了我会恨你的想法，你是这么说的吗？”

He didn't respond but Narcissa understood and her smile was bitter. 
他没有回答，但纳西莎明白了，她的笑容很苦涩。

"You couldn’t stand the idea that I might hate you," she said, standing up from her lean on the desk to her full height. "That I might resent you for everything we went through. So your response was to close me out? To refuse to meet my eyes? To leave rooms when I entered them? For years ?"
“你受不了我会恨你的想法，”她说，从靠在桌子上的身体站起来。“这样我就可以因为我们所经历的一切而怨恨你。所以你的反应是把我关起来？拒绝与我的眼睛对视？当我进入房间时离开房间？好几年了？

Lucius could only nod. She was speaking like it hadn't been for her. For Draco. Like he hadn't been trying to remove himself in the way one might obliviate a bad memory. Like he hadn't been trying to give them the chance to live a normal life. "I couldn't ruin your life more than I already had."
卢修斯只能点点头。她说话的样子，就像不是她一样。为了德拉科。就像他没有试图以一种可能会忘记糟糕记忆的方式离开自己一样。就像他没有试图给他们过正常生活的机会一样。“我不能比我现在更毁了你的生活。”

"You were always a foolish man, Lucius," she said, her voice wavering. He looked up from his drink, affronted. "You were," she insisted. "You’re intelligent, certainly, but you were always capable of doing foolish, short-sighted, cowardly, selfish things."
“你一直都是个愚蠢的人，卢修斯，”她说，她的声音有些颤抖。他从酒中抬起头来，感到被冒犯。“你是，”她坚持说。“你当然很聪明，但你总是能做愚蠢、短视、懦弱、自私的事情。”

Narcissa took a deep breath and then raised her glass to take a drink through pursed lips. 
纳西莎深吸了一口气，然后举起酒杯，通过噘起的嘴唇喝了一口。

"I accepted that because I knew you did them for us. For Draco and I. Your family. But after the war, that changed. It was like we stopped existing. Then you weren’t my selfish husband doing his best, you were just a selfish man who couldn’t see beyond his own pain. A man apparently so afraid that his wife might hate him that he couldn’t bear to give her the chance to love him."
“我接受了，因为我知道你为我们做了这些事情。为了 Draco 和我，你的家人。但战后，情况发生了变化。就像我们不再存在一样。那么你不是我自私的丈夫，你只是一个自私的人，无法超越自己的痛苦。一个男人显然非常害怕他的妻子会恨他，以至于他不忍心给她爱他的机会。

All of the air seemed to escape from Lucius' lungs. "I saw your pain, Narcissa," he said hoarsely. "And your fear. Repeatedly. I saw it for years and I understood that I was responsible for it."
所有的空气似乎都从卢修斯的肺里逸出。“我看到了你的痛苦，纳西莎，”他嘶哑地说。“还有你的恐惧。反复。我看到它很多年了，我明白我要为此负责。

"And you just decided you couldn’t bear feeling that responsibility any more, is that it? You decided it would be more convenient to drop it, like the heavy burden of a winter cloak in a hot room?" 
“而你只是决定你不能再忍受这种责任了，是吗？你觉得把它放下会更方便，就像在炎热的房间里披上一件沉重的冬天斗篷一样？

"That is not –" Lucius caught his anger by pressing his lips together and taking a deep breath through his nose. "Don’t, Narcissa."
“那不是——”卢修斯紧紧抿着嘴唇，用鼻子深吸一口气，以此来平息他的怒气。“别这样，纳西莎。”

"Don’t what ?" That curl in her upper lip that appeared when she was ready to say something vicious was there, like a whip raised high. Every single one of his muscles was tensed in preparation to take the hit.
“别什么？”当她准备说出恶毒的话时，她上唇的那一翘起就在那里，就像一根高高举起的鞭子。他的每一块肌肉都绷紧了，准备承受这一击。

"Do not speak to me as though I betrayed you," he said, taking an angry step forward. "I gave you your freedom from this Manor – from me – and you seized it.  And you get angry at me for that? You never came back ."
“不要跟我说话，好像我背叛了你一样，”他说，愤怒地向前迈了一步。“我把你从这个庄园——从我——解放出来——而你夺取了它。 你为此对我生气？你再也没有回来。

"Because you pushed me away!" 
“因为你把我推开了！”

Lucius could not keep the accusation from his voice. "You let me."
卢修斯无法从他的声音中抑制住这种指责。“你让我。”

Narcissa slammed her empty glass on his desk and raised a hand, pressed it flat to her chest.
纳西莎把空杯子砸在他的桌子上，然后抬起一只手，平放在胸前。

"I could only take so much," her voice lowering to a venomous hiss. "I was lonely , Lucius. For years . Did you spend so long serving cruelty that you’ve lost all comprehension of what it is to be kind? You act as though it was a kindness to push me away. It wasn’t. It was the thing that finally broke any bond between us, any responsibility or care I felt for you." There was a shimmering in her eyes that he found it hard to look at directly. “You ruined everything .”
“我只能接受这么多，”她的声音压低到恶毒的嘶嘶声。“我很孤独，卢修斯。多年来 .你是不是花了这么长时间去做残忍的事情，以至于你已经完全不理解什么是善良了？你表现得好像把我推开是一种善意。但事实并非如此。它最终打破了我们之间的任何纽带，我对你的任何责任或关心。她的眼睛里闪着光，他觉得很难直视。“你毁了一切。”

Lucius stared, his gaze fixed over Narcissa’s shoulder, a strange ringing in his ears. She’d accused him of cruelty, selfishness, and of making her lonely. All things he’d been trying to avoid. But had he let her stay he couldn't have looked at her anyway. His unrelenting feelings of remorse would have made sure of that; it was always going to end painfully. And yet his regret had donned a new layer.
卢修斯盯着他，目光盯着纳西莎的肩膀，耳边传来奇怪的响声。她指责他残忍、自私，让她感到孤独。所有他一直试图避免的事情。但是如果他让她留下来，他无论如何都不会看她。他无情的懊悔感本可以确保这一点;它总是会以痛苦的方式结束。然而，他的遗憾又多了一层。

Narcissa's voice was much steadier when she next spoke. "Isn’t it funny just how quickly the bad memories can come to outweigh the good? There were times when I found myself wishing you’d gone to Azkaban." 
纳西莎的声音在她接下来说话时语气稳定多了。“不好的回忆来得这么快就超过了好回忆，这不是很有趣吗？”有几次我发现自己希望你去阿兹卡班。

His flinch was instinctive. Not because what she said was especially cruel but because for so long it was what he’d wished for too and it was only recently that he’d started to feel like he might have reasons to be glad that his wish hadn’t been granted. 
他的退缩是本能的。不是因为她说的话特别残忍，而是因为这也是他长期以来的愿望，直到最近，他才开始觉得他可能有理由为他的愿望没有得到实现而感到高兴。

“At least then I’d have been able to pretend I still had my husband. Instead, I was left with a husk I barely recognised."
“至少那样我就可以假装我还有我的丈夫。相反，我留下的是一个我几乎不认识的外壳。

Narcissa reached out and picked up her glass again before walking towards him. Lucius quietly moved to the side to allow her to set it down and pick up his firewhiskey. There was nothing but muted clinks and tinkles between them as she poured herself a fresh glass.
纳西莎伸手再次拿起她的杯子，然后走向他。卢修斯悄悄地走到一边，让她放下它，拿起他的火威士忌。当她给自己倒一杯新酒时，他们之间只有柔和的叮当声和叮当声。

"And I recognise you even less now, Lucius," she said as she placed the firewhiskey back down to lift her glass. He could see her glance at him out of the corner of her eyes. They were dry again.
“我现在认不出你了，卢修斯，”她说着，把火威士忌放回原处，举起了她的杯子。他能看到她从眼角的余光中瞥了他一眼。他们又干了。

"Meaning?"
“意思是？”

"Working with the Mudblood?" she asked with a tone that suggested she thought it should be perfectly obvious. "Helping her?" Turning to him she took a drink and then, lowering the glass, tilted her head thoughtfully.
“和泥巴种一起工作？”她问道，语气暗示她认为这应该是非常明显的。“帮她？”她转向他喝了一口，然后放下杯子，若有所思地歪着头。

"Even accepting a Mudblood’s offer of help in the first place –" She shook her head. "Has living like a caged Muggle for so long really brought you so low? Can you no longer see those lines that once so clearly defined our world?"
“就算一开始就接受了泥巴种的帮助——”她摇了摇头。“像个被关在笼子里的麻瓜一样生活这么久，真的让你这么低落吗？”难道你再也看不到那些曾经如此清晰地定义我们世界的线条了吗？

Lucius rubbed a hand up his jaw, his heart suddenly pounding and his patience fraying. "Stop calling her that, Narcissa."
卢修斯用一只手揉了揉他的下巴，他的心突然砰砰直跳，他的耐心也随之消磨。“别这么叫她了，纳西莎。”

"What?" Narcissa asked, like she had genuinely not heard herself call Hermione anything, so naturally did the insult slip from her mouth.They had always used it in private together. He supposed she was slipping into the bad habits of old company; an easy thing to do.
“什么？”纳西莎问道，就像她真的没听过自己叫赫敏什么一样，侮辱自然而然地从她嘴里溜走了。他们总是私下里一起使用它。他以为她已经养成了老朋友的坏习惯;一件容易的事情。

"Mudblood."
“泥巴种。”

"Don’t call her –" A disbelieving little laugh bubbled up in Narcissa’s chest and over her lips, prompting her to raise a polite hand to cover them. “Don’t call her – Lucius, dear, that’s what she is . Have you become as good at lying to yourself as you always were at lying to others? You might not want to admit that you’ve been spending your time with a Mudblood but that’s exactly what you have been doing."
“别叫她——”一阵难以置信的小笑声在纳西莎的胸口和嘴唇上冒出来，促使她礼貌地举起一只手来遮住他们。“别叫她——卢修斯，亲爱的，她就是这样。你是否变得像以前一样善于对自己撒谎？你可能不想承认你一直在和泥巴种在一起，但这正是你一直在做的事情。

"She is not a Mudblood."
“她不是泥巴种。”

Eyes combing his defensive stance, Narcissa's smile faltered slightly, like a candle pushed into a cool breeze. "Has the definition of that word changed in my time in France?" she asked politely. “Perhaps I’ve been gone longer than I thought…”
纳西莎的眼睛梳理着他的防御姿态，他的笑容微微颤抖，就像一根被推入凉爽微风中的蜡烛。“我在法国的时候，这个词的定义有变化吗？”“也许我离开的时间比我想象的要长......”

"Obviously it hasn’t."
“显然没有。”

"So, if it’s not the word that’s changed, Lucius, then what has?" 
“所以，如果不是这个词变了，Lucius，那是什么变了？”

He was silent, still, and Narcissa watched him closely, like she was waiting for him to make a mistake. Lucius tried to keep his face inscrutable, avoiding direct eye contact, even when she uttered a small, guttural exhale that contained a galling mix of understanding, disgust and pity.
他沉默不语，一动不动，纳西莎紧紧地看着他，就像她在等他犯错一样。卢修斯试图让他的脸变得高深莫测，避免直接的眼神接触，即使她发出了一声小小的喉咙呼气，其中夹杂着理解、厌恶和怜悯。

"Oh, Lucius." His eyes cut to hers and he saw her brow was furrowed, the fine lines at the corners of her eyes deepening as she squinted at him like he was a faded textbook she couldn't quite read. "Lucius. You sad fool of a man. Truly, Azkaban would have served you better."
“哦，卢修斯。”他的眼睛盯着她，看到她皱起了眉头，她眯着眼睛看着他，眼角的细纹加深了，就像他是一本她不太看懂的褪色教科书。“卢修斯。你这个可悲的傻瓜。真的，阿兹卡班会更好地为你服务。

“Narcissa –” He stopped himself before she could do it. What was he to say? He had nothing to deny when she hadn't made any overt accusations.
“纳西莎——”他在她动手之前停了下来。他该说什么呢？当她没有公开指责时，他没有什么可否认的。

“For so long I wondered what I could have done to save our marriage,” she said musingly, “to bring you out of your torpor. And here I find it was as simple as being a 26-year-old Mudblood.” Her shoulders jumped up with a stifled, repulsed laugh. “And you’re still dragging our son into your schemes. Have you no shame ?”
“很长一段时间以来，我一直在想我能做些什么来挽救我们的婚姻，”她沉思着说，“把你从痛苦中解救出来。在这里，我发现这就像成为一个 26 岁的泥巴种一样简单。她的肩膀跳了起来，发出一声令人窒息的、排斥的笑声。“而且你还在把我们的儿子拖进你的计划里。你不感到羞耻吗？

He couldn’t offer Narcissa a straightforward answer. He’d spent quite a while wrestling with the shame of his feelings for Hermione but they were unfair to her. What shame should he feel for admiring someone who was so eminently admirable? What shame should he feel for asking his son to help someone he already considered a friend?
他无法给纳西莎一个直截了当的答案。他花了相当长的时间与他对赫敏的感情的羞耻作斗争，但这对她并不公平。他钦佩一个如此令人钦佩的人，他应该感到什么羞耻呢？他让儿子帮助一个他已经认为是朋友的人，他应该感到什么羞耻呢？

“I suppose the Granger girl has been telling you sweet things about how being like a Muggle isn’t that bad, really, has she?” Narcissa continued, uninterested in his response. “Made you feel better about your mistakes? I can only assume she likes you without magic; perhaps you remind her of her father.” 
“我想那个格兰杰女孩一直在告诉你甜言蜜语，说像个麻瓜一样还不错，真的吗？”纳西莎继续说道，对他的回答不感兴趣。“让你对自己的错误感觉好些吗？我只能假设她喜欢你，没有魔法;也许你让她想起了她的父亲。

Lucius blanched, a sudden surge of distaste for her insinuation bringing him back to himself. “ Don’t Narcissa.”
卢修斯脸色发白，对她的暗示突然涌上一阵厌恶，使他回过神来。“别，纳西莎。”

“Don’t?” she asked, drawing back. “A bit rich for you to ask anyone to show any kind of restraint, Lucius, don’t you think? Or maybe that’s what she likes – your tremendous wealth. I mean, she’s gallivanting around down there in what looks like little more than a nightdress ; clearly she needs some financial assistance.”
“不要？” 她问道，一边缩回去。“你要求任何人表现出任何克制有点有钱，卢修斯，你不觉得吗？或者，也许这就是她喜欢的——你的巨额财富。我的意思是，她穿着看起来只不过是睡裙的东西在那儿飞来飞去;显然她需要一些经济援助。

Opening his mouth to argue, Lucius hesitated, a faint frown creasing his forehead. A nightdress? How on earth had Draco interpreted his instructions to have her well turned out? Instead of enquiring any further, he gave Narcissa a cold look that signalled his unwillingness to hear any more of her spurious reasons for Hermione’s interest in him.
卢修斯张开嘴想要争论，他犹豫了一下，额头上微微皱起了眉头。 睡裙？ 德拉科到底是怎么解释他的指示来让她变得好起来的？他没有进一步询问，而是冷冷地看了纳西莎一眼，这表明他不愿意再听到她对赫敏感兴趣的任何虚假理由。

“Narcissa, we are no longer married, as you were so keen to tell all of the guests downstairs.” That curl returned to Narcissa’s top lip. “My intimate affairs are no longer any of your concern.”
“纳西莎，我们不再结婚了，因为你太热衷于告诉楼下的所有客人了。”那卷曲又回到了纳西莎的上唇。“我的私事不再是你的事。”

“The ink on the contract is barely dry,” she snapped. 
“合同上的墨水还没干，”她厉声说。

“The marriage was over long before it was even drawn up.” Years they had been separated. Years . Without a word of communication. Yet here she was, standing in front of him like only a few weeks had passed. 
“这桩婚事早在拟定之前就已经结束了。” 他们已经分开多年了。 年。没有一句交流。然而她就在这里，站在他面前，就像仅仅过去了几个星期一样。

“Yes, you made quite sure of that,” she said with a nasty sneer, lifting her glass back up to her lips to take a long drink. Lucius watched her, his own drink dangling at his side between his fingertips. He was squeezing the rim of his own glass in a quick pulsing rhythm that he realised was in time with his own heartbeat. 
“是的，你很确定，”她冷笑着说，把酒杯举回嘴边，大口大口地喝了一口。卢修斯看着她，他自己的饮料在他的指尖之间晃来晃去。他以一种快速的脉动节奏挤压着自己的杯子边缘，他意识到这与他自己的心跳是及时的。

When Narcissa lowered the glass, she dipped her head to brush the wetness of the firewhiskey from the sides of her lips and closed her eyes for a moment, seemingly struggling to look at him. 
当纳西莎放下酒杯时，她低下头，从嘴唇两侧拂去火威士忌的湿漉漉的，然后闭上眼睛片刻，似乎在挣扎着看他。

Still looking down, she said, “Merlin knows I don’t love you any more Lucius.” His stomach dropped at that. It was the first time she’d said it and even though he already knew – already felt the same – the sheer matter of factness with which she could say it was somehow shocking. “But I don’t know if I can stand to watch you make yet another mistake.”
她仍然低着头说，“梅林知道我不再爱你了，卢修斯。他的胃一沉。这是她第一次说这句话，尽管他已经知道——已经有同样的感觉——她能说出这句话的纯粹事实问题，多少有些令人震惊。“但我不知道我是否能忍受看着你再犯一个错误。”

Raising her head, Narcissa met his eyes again. There was something lost in her expression. Something confused. Perhaps, from her perspective, it did look like a mistake. Perhaps, from her perspective, he wasn’t capable of anything but making mistakes. Perhaps she would always feel an urge to save him from himself. 
纳西莎抬起头，再次与他的眼睛对上。她的表情里有些失落。有些困惑。也许，从她的角度来看，这看起来确实是一个错误。也许，从她的角度来看，他除了犯错之外什么都做不了。也许她总是有一种冲动，想把他从自己手中救出来。

“This is certainly not a mistake, Narcissa.” His voice was firm and even, utterly unequivocal, but her concern softened him fractionally. 
“这当然不是个错误，纳西莎。”他的声音坚定而平和，完全明确，但她的担忧使他稍微软化了一点。

“You really think that, don’t you?” 
“你真的这么想，不是吗？”

Abruptly, she walked back towards his desk and sat the glass back on its surface. Turning to face him again, she leaned against the edge of the desk and assessed him, her fingers drumming a staccato beat. There was barely a mouthful of firewhiskey remaining in her glass and she glanced down into it thoughtfully. 
突然，她走回他的书桌前，把玻璃杯放回了表面。她再次转身面对他，靠在桌子的边缘，打量着他，她的手指敲打着断断续续的节拍。她的杯子里只剩下一口火威士忌，她若有所思地低头看了一眼。

“I wonder how long your lovely little Mudblood will feel the same way.” Finally lifting the glass to her lips and her eyes to his, she asked, “Tell me, has she revisited the drawing room yet?”
“我想知道你可爱的小泥巴种会有这种感觉多久。”最后，她把酒杯举到嘴边，眼睛对着他，问道：“告诉我，她又去过客厅了吗？

Clenching his jaw tight, Lucius gave no reply but his pinched expression was enough for Narcissa, who offered him a tight smile that did not come close to reaching her eyes.
卢修斯紧紧咬紧下巴，没有回答，但他紧绷的表情对纳西莎来说已经足够了，纳西莎向他露出一个紧绷的笑容，但她的眼睛还没碰到。

“No, I thought not,” she said before throwing back the last of the firewhiskey, wincing through the burn. “Old sins have long shadows, Lucius. Perhaps she thinks casting light on them will help her forgive you – forgive anyone – but, well…” Narcissa set her glass back on his desk and uttered a delicate sigh. “I think we both know it’s not always that simple, don’t we?” 
“不，我想不是，”她说，然后扔回最后一瓶火威士忌，在燃烧中畏缩。“旧罪有很长的阴影，卢修斯。也许她认为照亮他们会帮助她原谅你——原谅任何人——但是，好吧......”纳西莎把杯子放回他的桌子上，轻轻地叹了口气。“我想我们都知道事情并不总是那么简单，不是吗？”

In the silence, they stared at one another across the room. It stood to reason that the feeling of getting to know someone had a reverse but Lucius had never really experienced it. 
在寂静中，他们在房间的另一头凝视着彼此。按理说，了解某人的感觉是相反的，但卢修斯从未真正体验过。

“I recall a time when you were worried that Draco was overly fixated on that girl,” Narcissa said quietly. “I thought to myself, he’s just being a responsible father – ensuring that his son understands what is expected of him and what limitations those expectations have. Was I wrong? Were you just worried that he had inherited your…predilection for Mudbloods? Was it always there and I just didn’t see it?” 
“我记得有一次你担心德拉科对那个女孩太着迷了，”纳西莎轻声说。“我心想，他只是在做一个负责任的父亲——确保他的儿子明白对他的期望以及这些期望有什么限制。我错了吗？你只是担心他继承了你的......偏爱泥巴种？它一直在那里，我就是没看到吗？

“She is not a Mudblood, Narcissa. I told you.” 
“她不是泥巴种，纳西莎。我告诉过你了。

Narcissa cackled, her head falling back. “Oh, what is she then, Lucius? I can’t wait to hear it. And don’t say half your age because that much I am very clear on.” 
纳西莎咯咯地笑着，她的头向后仰。“哦，那么她是什么，卢修斯？我迫不及待地想听到它。不要说你的年龄只有一半，因为我很清楚这一点。

“She is…she is intelligent. And proud. And passionate. And…and hellishly stubborn and –” Lucius swallowed. “Good. She is good, Narcissa. To me. For me. If I’ve ever been a fool, it's been in believing that anyone, especially her, could be defined by one word.”
“她是......她很聪明。而且很自豪。而且充满激情。和。。。而且非常固执，而且——“卢修斯咽了口口水。“很好。她很好，纳西莎。对我来说。给我的。如果我曾经是个傻瓜，那就是相信任何人，尤其是她，都可以用一个词来定义。

Narcissa’s sarcastic smile had dimmed with every word Lucius spoke.
纳西莎讽刺的笑容随着卢修斯说的每一句话而变得黯淡。

“How long, Lucius, before you realise that you’re just going to ruin her life by association in the way that you apparently so feared you were ruining mine?” Her voice was soft, her gaze piercing. “Perhaps you feel like her kindness, her affection, is some kind of absolution? That the rest of our world will, one day, cease to see your darkness beside her golden glow? I doubt that will happen. I doubt there will be understanding. She will not restore you. You will most likely ruin her and you are deluded if you think she will be willing to languish in this Manor as I was.”
“多久，卢修斯，你才会意识到，你只会因为交往而毁掉她的生活，就像你显然如此担心你毁了我的生活一样？”她的声音很轻柔，目光锐利。“也许你觉得她的善良，她的爱，是某种赦免？我们世界的其他人总有一天会不再看到她金色光芒之外的黑暗？我怀疑这种情况会发生。我怀疑会有人理解。她不会让你恢复的。你很可能会毁了她，如果你认为她会愿意像我一样在这个庄园里受苦，那你就是被骗了。

Nausea rushed over Lucius, leaving him dizzy and reeling. Enough . Nothing about this was productive. Setting his nearly-full glass down on his drinks trolley with enough force to make the entire thing rattle threateningly, Lucius drew his shoulders back. 
恶心涌上了卢修斯的心头，让他头晕目眩，不知所措。 足够。这没有任何成效。卢修斯把几乎满了的杯子放在他的饮料手推车上，用力让整个东西发出威胁性的嘎嘎声，然后卢修斯把肩膀往后缩。

“I think it’s time you returned to the ballroom, Narcissa, before the Aurors come looking. Unless Letty has set up a room for you –”
“我想你该回舞厅去了，纳西莎，在傲罗们来找之前。除非莱蒂已经为你安排了房间——”

“Oh, I’m not staying here, Lucius.” Narcissa pushed herself up to her full height, her eyes flicking to his shoulders which had dropped fractionally under the weight of his relief. 
“哦，我不会留在这里的，卢修斯。”纳西莎把自己撑到最上面，她的眼睛瞥向他的肩膀，他的肩膀在他的解脱下微微下降了。

Turning to the dark window behind his desk, she assessed her reflection and brushed down her robes. “No,” she said, the word trailing out on a sigh. “Whatever it was in this Manor that ever made it feel like home –” she glanced over her shoulder at him, her eyes travelling the length of him “ – it’s long gone.”
她转向他书桌后面的黑暗窗户，评估了自己的倒影，拂去了她的长袍。“不，”她说，这个词在叹息中拖延。“不管这个庄园里有什么东西让它有家的感觉——”她回头瞥了他一眼，眼睛在他身上扫视着，“——它早就消失了。

“I shall tell Draco you –” Lucius began, speaking to her back as she walked towards the door. 
“我会告诉德拉科你——”卢修斯开始对她说，她一边走向门口。

“I’m meeting Draco and Astoria for breakfast at my hotel,” she responded sharply, her hand coming to rest on the door handle. “You need not say anything on my behalf.” 
“我要在我的酒店和Draco和Astoria一起吃早餐，”她尖锐地回答，她的手停在门把手上。“你不需要替我说什么。”

There was a pause, during which Narcissa seemed to deflate slightly, her gaze fixed on the door in front of her. “If Miss Granger does, by some miracle, manage to find a way to get you your freedom, Lucius, seize it. You might as well walk away from all this with something lasting.”
停顿了一会儿，纳西莎似乎稍微泄气了一下，她的目光盯着面前的门。“如果格兰杰小姐真的奇迹般地找到了让你自由的方法，卢修斯，抓住它。你还不如带着一些持久的东西离开这一切。

With that, Narcissa pulled open his study door and left as quietly and swiftly as she came in. The entire thing could have been a dream. Or a nightmare, based on the awful, dread-filled mood that had settled over Lucius.
说完，纳西莎拉开了他的书房门，和她进来一样安静而迅速地离开了。整件事可能是一个梦。或者是一场噩梦，基于笼罩着卢修斯的可怕、充满恐惧的情绪。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Not exactly a laugh-a-minute chapter. And a bloody challenge to write but I hope it came out okay. I've read it so many times it doesn't really make sense anymore.
不完全是一个令人发笑的章节。这是一个血腥的挑战，但我希望它能顺利完成。我已经读了很多遍了，它已经不再有意义了。

Chapter 34
第三十四章Chapter Notes
章节注释

A bit of a gap, sorry! September has been heckin' busy but know that I'm always tapping away at this story when I get the chance. Thanks for your patience <3 and thanks for all the wonderful comments. Each and every one of them makes my day.
有点差距，抱歉！九月一直很忙，但要知道，只要有机会，我总是会轻描淡写这个故事。感谢您的耐心等待 <3 并感谢所有精彩的评论。他们每个人都让我开心。

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾Hermione fidgeted with the small pile of business cards she had accumulated over the night, pressing the sharp, magically reinforced edges of them into the lines on her palms. 
赫敏坐立不安地摆弄着她一夜积累的一小摞名片，把它们锋利的、被魔法加固的边缘压在手掌上的线条上。

The hour was growing late and the event was petering out, drips and drops of people leaving the room at increasingly regular intervals. Weaving through the dissipating crowd, offering polite but distracted smiles to those around her, she spied the familiar gleam of Draco’s hair under the flickering candlelight and made towards him. 
时间越来越晚，活动逐渐消失，人们越来越有规律地离开房间。她穿行在散去的人群中，向周围的人提供礼貌但心不在焉的微笑，在摇曳的烛光下，她窥见了德拉科熟悉的头发，向他走来。

After Narcissa's departure, he had forced Hermione back into mingling. So she had. Somewhat unwillingly but still, she thought, quite successfully. She was bringing the business cards to him as trophies of sorts. Proof that she'd done as requested.
纳西莎离开后，他强迫赫敏重新交往。她确实做到了。有点不情愿，但她想，还是相当成功的。她把名片当作战利品拿给他。证明她已经按照要求做了。

Even if her mind had only been partially on the task. Her eyes had drifted regularly over the shoulders of her interlocutors towards the doors to the ballroom as she had contended with a nauseating mix of hope and fear that she would see Narcissa Malfoy – Black – whatever she wanted to be called – coming back through them. 
即使她的心思只是部分地放在了这项任务上。她的眼睛经常从对话者的肩膀上移向舞厅的门口，因为她一直在与一种令人作呕的希望和恐惧作斗争，她希望看到纳西莎·马尔福——布莱克——无论她想被叫什么——通过他们回来。

But she never did. 
但她从未这样做。

If there was one thing that was going to make Hermione more unsettled than Narcissa’s presence, it was her absence. Specifically where she was in said absence. Even more specifically, who she was with. It was hard for Hermione to imagine what any kind of meeting between Narcissa and Lucius might look like because, though she felt like she knew him increasingly well, she realised she didn’t really know him with Narcissa. She didn’t know them at all – their dynamic, their interactions, even the intricacies of their present feelings towards one another were all mysteries to her. 
如果说有一件事比纳西莎的存在更让赫敏感到不安，那就是她的缺席。具体来说，她在那个缺席的地方。更具体地说，她和谁在一起。赫敏很难想象纳西莎和卢修斯之间的任何一次会面会是什么样子，因为虽然她觉得自己越来越了解他，但她意识到她并没有真正了解他和纳西莎。她根本不了解他们——他们的动态、他们的互动，甚至他们现在对彼此的错综复杂的感情，对她来说都是个谜。

Hermione hated not knowing. Even more than that, she hated not having a means by which she could become knowing.
赫敏讨厌不知道。不仅如此，她更讨厌没有办法让她知道。

Reaching the edge of the room, Hermione found Draco leaning against the wall, his arms crossed and a glazed expression on his face as he gazed over the heads of the quietly conversing Pansy and Luna. He was, she realised, also watching the door. On first glance, he looked disinterested, but there was a pulsing in his jaw that indicated he was clenching and unclenching his teeth at a rapid pace. 
走到房间的边缘，赫敏发现德拉科靠在墙上，双臂交叉，脸上露出呆滞的表情，凝视着安静交谈的潘西和卢娜的头顶。她意识到，他也在看着门口。乍一看，他看起来不感兴趣，但他的下巴有一阵搏动，表明他正在快速咬紧和松开牙齿。

When he saw Hermione approaching, Draco pushed himself up off the wall, his action prompting Pansy and Luna to stop speaking and turn around to look at her too. 
当他看到赫敏走近时，德拉科把自己从墙上撑了起来，他的动作让潘西和卢娜停止说话，也转过身来看她。

“Well?” he asked. 
“嗯？”

Holding up the fistful of cards, Hermione gave him a weary smile. “A successful evening. I have a great many follow-up meetings to arrange, you’ll be pleased to know.”
赫敏举起那摞捏的纸牌，疲惫地向他露出一个微笑。“一个成功的夜晚。我有很多后续会议要安排，你会很高兴知道的。

Nodding, Draco brushed down the front of his robes briskly. “I’m pleased that this entire thing wasn’t an utterly pointless exercise in stress, certainly.”
点点头，德拉科轻快地拂过他的长袍前襟。“我很高兴这整件事当然不是完全毫无意义的压力练习。”

Bristling, Hermione wrinkled her nose at Draco. “I didn’t ask for this, you know. You could stop acting like I’ve been a great burden on you when you took it upon yourself to do –”
赫敏勃然大怒，对德拉科皱了皱鼻子。“我不是要这个的，你知道的。你可别再表现得像我自己承担了——”

“I think you’ll find my father   –”
“我想你会找到我爸爸——”

“You know what I mean,” Hermione snapped. “You were more in the know than me, Malfoy.”
“你明白我的意思，”赫敏厉声说。“你比我更了解情况，马尔福。”

In the unsettled silence that fell between them, Pansy raised her eyebrows, her gaze travelling between Hermione’s raised shoulders and Malfoy’s clenched fists. “There is an energy here,” she finally said, looking to Luna for confirmation of her body language reading. “Nargles?”
在他们之间不安的沉默中，潘西扬起眉毛，她的目光在赫敏抬起的肩膀和马尔福紧握的拳头之间来回扫视。“这里有一种能量，”她终于说，看向卢娜，以确认她的肢体语言阅读。“纳格尔斯？”

“No,” Luna replied blithely, gently shaking her head so that her long blonde hair fell across her shoulder and hid her shaking radish earrings. “The room’s quite clear. Someone’s been very thorough.”
“不，”卢娜轻快地回答，轻轻摇头，让她的金发长垂在肩膀上，藏住了她颤抖的萝卜耳环。“房间里很空。有人做得非常彻底。

“Just regular weirdness, then,” Pansy said, with an increased confidence that said that was her area of expertise. “Ignore him, Granger,” she continued, sparing Hermione a dismissive glance. “He’s been a right grump and done nothing but stare at that door since his mother left through it. Positively edible.”
“那么，就只是普通的怪异，”潘西说，信心增强，说那是她的专业领域。“别理他，格兰杰，”她继续说，不屑地瞥了赫敏一眼。“自从他妈妈离开那扇门后，他就一直脾气暴躁，除了盯着那扇门什么也没做。肯定可以食用。

“Head-a-ball,” Luna interjected softly, putting a hand on Pansy’s arm. 
“头球，”Luna轻声打断，将一只手放在Pansy的手臂上。

“ Oedipal ,” Hermione instinctively corrected them both, giving them a perturbed frown before turning back to Draco. “She hasn’t come back, then?” she asked quietly, not hiding her concern. His eyes cut down to hers and he shook his head, his face stony.
“俄狄浦斯，”赫敏本能地纠正了他们俩，让他们不安地皱了皱眉，然后转身看向德拉科。“那么，她还没回来吗？”她轻声问道，毫不掩饰她的担忧。他的眼睛盯着她，摇了摇头，脸色凝固。

“I’m sure it’ll be fine, Granger,” he eventually said on a sigh, running a hand through his hair despite the fact that it was sitting quite neatly. “They’ve not spoken in a long time but they’re grown-ups, y’know. I really don’t think there’s anything you – we – need to worry about.”
“我相信会没事的，格兰杰，”他最终叹了口气说，尽管他的头发已经相当整齐地坐着了。“他们已经很久没有说话了，但他们已经长大了，你知道的。我真的认为你——我们——不需要担心任何事情。

Frowning, Pansy placed a hand on her hip and tipped her head. “Wait a minute, why would Granger care if your mother and father are speaking –”
潘西皱着眉头，将一只手放在她的臀部上，歪着头。“等一下，格兰杰为什么在乎你爸爸妈妈在说话——”

“Absolutely nothing about this conversation is any of your business, Pansy,” Draco said shortly. “Keep quiet and don’t annoy me any more this evening; I’ve had quite enough of babysitting you.”
“这次谈话绝对不关你的事，潘西，”德拉科很快说。“别吵，今晚不要再惹我生气了;我已经受够了照顾你。

Drawing back, Pansy flattened an offended hand to her chest. “Well excuse me but I am in this conversation –”
潘西向后退，将一只被冒犯的手压在她的胸前。“嗯，对不起，我正在谈话——”

“Because you bloody inserted yourself into it. As you always have –”
“因为你把自己血腥地去了。就像你一直以来的——”

“Why does Granger care?” Pansy pressed, her petulant insistence making her nostrils flare.
“格兰杰为什么在乎？”潘西紧紧逼着，她任性的坚持让她的鼻孔张开。

“Pansy –”
“潘西——”

“What, is she shagging one of them now that they’re not together?” Pansy performatively gasped and then, voice lowered, she leaned in like they were sharing some great secret. “Is that why they’re not together?” 
“什么，既然他们不在一起了，她又要和他们中的一个上床吗？”潘西表演性地喘息着，然后，她压低了声音，俯身，就像他们在分享什么伟大的秘密一样。“这就是他们不在一起的原因吗？”

It struck Hermione that Pansy had been looking for perhaps the most shocking thing that she could think of in order to prompt Draco to tell her what she wanted to know via a horrified correction. In doing so, she had landed not particularly far from the truth. 
赫敏突然意识到，潘西一直在寻找也许是她能想到的最令人震惊的事情，以便促使德拉科通过一个可怕的纠正来告诉她她想知道的事情。在这样做的过程中，她离真相并不特别远。

“Pansy, please stop ,” Hermione finally said, spying the angry, telling pink that was rising in Draco’s cheeks. It was similar to what happened to his father and the last thing they needed was a scene on this particular subject matter when the room was beginning to clear out just enough that raised voices might echo. “It’s absolutely nothing to do with –”
“潘西，请停下来，”赫敏终于说了，窥探着德拉科脸颊上浮现的愤怒和告诉她的粉红色。这和他父亲的遭遇很相似，他们最不需要的就是这个特定主题的场景，当时房间里开始清理干净，刚好让高声的声音回荡。“这绝对和——”

“Mum or dad, Granger?” Pansy asked, a wicked, teasing grin on her face. It was clear she thought she was just annoying them, that she didn’t actually believe –
“妈妈还是爸爸，格兰杰？”潘西问道，脸上露出邪恶的、挑逗的笑容。很明显，她认为她只是在惹恼他们，她实际上并不相信——

“Dad,” Luna said with a factual simplicity that made everyone freeze and look at her. In response, Luna looked back into the room towards something that clearly interested her more than the conversation that was taking place between her girlfriend and friends. 
“爸爸，”Luna 以一种事实简单的方式说，让每个人都僵住了，看着她。作为回应，Luna 回头看向房间，显然比她的女朋友和朋友之间的对话更让她感兴趣。

In the still quiet, a frighteningly delighted smile slowly spread across Pansy’s narrow, pale face. Her teeth were dazzlingly white and, Hermione noticed, her incisors were appropriately sharp. “Granger, you dirty bitch . I’d never have thought you had it in you. Are you really?”
在一片寂静中，潘西狭窄而苍白的脸上缓缓地露出了可怕的喜悦笑容。她的牙齿洁白得令人眼花缭乱，赫敏注意到，她的门牙也相当锋利。“格兰杰，你这个肮脏的婊子......我从来没想过你有这种能力。你真的吗？

“No!” Hermione insisted, her voice high, just as Luna said “Yes” without looking around. 
“不！”赫敏坚持着，她的声音很高，就像卢娜没有环顾四周地说“是”。

“Luna!” Hermione yelped breathlessly. How did she know? How did Luna know bloody anything? To what other world was she connected and why did it sometimes make her say utterly bonkers nonsense and other times make her so insightful as to be practically oracular?
“露娜！”赫敏气喘吁吁地喊道。她是怎么知道的？露娜是怎么知道什么的？她与另一个世界相连，为什么有时让她说出完全疯狂的废话，有时又让她如此有洞察力，以至于几乎可以口齿伶俐？

“Oh.” Luna glanced around absently, blinking at Hermione like a confused owl. “I’m sorry, Hermione, are you not telling people yet? I thought it was obvious.”
“哦。”卢娜心不在焉地环顾四周，像一只困惑的猫头鹰一样向赫敏眨了眨眼。“对不起，赫敏，你还没告诉别人吗？我认为这是显而易见的。

Spluttering, Hermione looked imploringly at Draco only to find that he had utterly checked out of the conversation and dropped back against the wall, his eyes closed and his chin raised above the squabble taking place several inches below his eye line.
赫敏啪啪啪地恳求地看着德拉科，却发现他已经完全退出了谈话，向后靠在墙上，闭着眼睛，下巴抬高，高于发生在他视线以下几英寸处的争吵。

“I wouldn’t – we’re not telling – it’s not – nothing’s happening ,” Hermione finally managed to say. 
“我不会——我们不是说——不是——什么都没发生，”赫敏终于开口了。

“No, I can see it,” Pansy said, running a narrow-eyed, assessing glance up and down Hermione. “I can see why you’d get off on his whole hoity-toity, better-than-everyone attitude. That was your thing at school, after all, wasn’t –”
“不，我能看到，”潘西说，眯起眼睛，上下打量着赫敏。“我明白为什么你会对他整个圣洁、比每个人都好的态度感到厌烦。那是你在学校里的事，毕竟不是——”

“Pansy, that’s not very nice at all,” Luna said reprovingly, turning towards them to reveal that a frown was creasing her smooth forehead. Pansy shrunk somewhat, a guilty shade passing over her face.
“三色堇，那一点也不好，”露娜责备地说，转身看向他们，露出她光滑的额头上皱起了眉头。潘西稍微缩了缩，一丝愧疚的阴影掠过她的脸。

“Sorry, Granger,” Pansy mumbled to a wide-eyed Hermione – a Hermione who looked like she was quite close to fainting. There was a pause and then, with a surreptitious glance at Draco, Pansy asked quietly, “Is he good, though? A part of me always sort of wondered, y’know, if you got past the uptightness, with the really stern –”
“对不起，格兰杰，”潘西对睁大眼睛的赫敏喃喃自语——一个看起来快要晕倒的赫敏了。停顿了一下，然后，偷偷地瞥了一眼德拉科，潘西轻声问道，“不过，他好吗？我的一部分总是在想，你知道的，你是不是克服了紧张，真的严厉了——”

“ Enough ,” Draco snapped, finally rejoining the conversation with a fierce look that made Pansy press her lips together to suppress a laugh. “Pansy, stop this. There’s nothing –”
“够了，”德拉科厉声说，终于以一种凶狠的眼神重新加入了谈话，这让潘西紧紧地抿着嘴唇，压制住了笑声。“潘西，住手。什么都没有——”

“That anyone else needs to know,” Pansy finished for him, with a stage-wink in a very pink Hermione’s direction. “Got you.” Reaching for Luna’s hand, Pansy entwined their fingers and began dawdling away. 
“其他人都需要知道的，”潘西替他说完，朝粉红色的赫敏的方向眨了眨眼。“抓住你了。”潘西伸手抓住卢娜的手，缠住了他们的手指，开始蹒跚而行。

“Thanks for a lovely evening, Hermione and Draco,” Luna said pleasantly as she drifted away with Pansy, clearly oblivious to the fact that she had dropped a conversational bomb. “It’s always nice to be with friends.”
“谢谢你这个美好的夜晚，赫敏和德拉科，”卢娜和潘西一起渐行渐远时愉快地说，显然忘记了她已经投下了一枚谈话炸弹的事实。“和朋友在一起总是很高兴。”

“New respect, Granger,” Pansy said over her shoulder. “Shite night but thanks for the invite.”
“新的尊重，格兰杰，”潘西转过头说。“晚上真糟糕，但谢谢你的邀请。”

“She’s a right delight, isn’t she?” came Ginny’s dry voice to Hermione’s right, making her jump. “I still say Luna’s a million times too good for her.” 
“她真是个高兴的人，不是吗？”金妮干涩的声音传到赫敏的右边，让她跳了起来。“我仍然说 Luna 对她来说太好了一百万倍。”

Hermione turned to Ginny, still gaping at the interaction she had just had with Luna and Pansy. “Well, I’m not going to say that to Luna , obviously,” Ginny hurriedly assured her, misreading her expression. 
赫敏转向金妮，仍然对她刚刚与卢娜和潘西的互动目瞪口呆。“嗯，显然，我不会对卢娜说这些，”金妮急忙向她保证，误读了她的表情。

“Are you alright, Hermione?” asked Neville, who had joined Ginny and was squinting at Hermione’s pale face with concern. “You look like you’ve just had a round with a Boggart.”
“你还好吗，赫敏？”纳威问道，他已经加入了金妮的行列，关切地眯着眼睛看着赫敏苍白的脸。“你看起来就像刚刚和博格特打了一轮比赛。”

“She’s tired,” Draco grumbled. 
“她累了，”德拉科抱怨道。

“Not the only one apparently,” Ginny quipped, noting Malfoy’s brusque tone with a raised brow. 
“显然不是唯一一个，”金妮打趣道，注意到马尔福粗鲁的语气和扬起的眉毛。

“It’s been a long night,” he replied through gritted teeth. “With some surprises.”
“这是一个漫长的夜晚，”他咬牙切齿地回答。“有一些惊喜。”

“Yes,” Ginny said, her raised brow lowering into a thoughtful frown, “I thought I saw your –” 
“是的，”金妮说，她扬起的眉毛低垂成若有所思的眉头，“我以为我看到了你的——”

But whatever Ginny had seen, she didn’t say any more. Instead, her eyes drifted back to the shell-shocked Hermione and her frown deepened. 
但无论金妮看到了什么，她都没有再说什么。相反，她的目光又回到了震惊的赫敏身上，她的眉头皱得更深了。

“Maybe it’s time to go, Hermione. Harry and Ron are just getting our cloaks. We’re going to carry on at Godric’s Hollow if you want to join – Ron and Neville have a lot of catching up to do.” Seeing Hermione’s hesitation, Ginny gave her an encouraging smile and added, “It’s been a while since we had a catch-up, too. A real in-depth one, y’know?”
“也许是时候走了，赫敏。哈利和罗恩刚刚拿到我们的斗篷。如果你想加入，我们会继续在 Godric's Hollow 工作——Ron 和 Neville 还有很多事情要做。看到赫敏的犹豫，金妮给了她一个鼓励的微笑，并补充道：“我们也已经有一段时间没有见面了。一个真正深入的，你知道吗？

“I – I think I might just stay here a while longer, Gin,” Hermione said, glancing up at Draco who shot her a surprised look. “Help clean up, say thanks, that sort of thing.” Understanding flitted across Draco’s face and he nodded quietly, picking up on exactly why Hermione wanted to stay.
“我——我想我可能会在这里多呆一会儿，金，”赫敏说，抬头瞥了一眼德拉科，德拉科惊讶地看了她一眼。“帮忙打扫卫生，说声谢谢，诸如此类的事情。”德拉科的脸上闪过一丝理解，他悄悄地点了点头，明白了赫敏想要留下来的确切原因。

For a painful moment, Hermione thought Ginny was going to argue but, though her mouth opened and she drew in a preparatory breath, Ginny somehow found it in herself to close it and nod. Giving Hermione a look that made her feel like she was a valuable object being assessed for damage, Ginny said, “Alright. Well, come by later. Even if it’s late. Please.”
有那么一刻，赫敏以为金妮要争论了，但是，尽管她张开了嘴，准备吸一口气，但金妮不知怎么地发现自己想闭上嘴巴，点了点头。金妮看了赫敏一眼，让她觉得自己是一个正在接受损坏评估的贵重物品，她说，“好吧。好吧，稍后再来。即使已经很晚了。拜托了。

Nodding, Hermione gave Ginny and Neville a tight smile but made no promises; she couldn’t be sure how long she’d be with Lucius, if Narcissa wasn’t still with him. Aside from Narcissa, she and Lucius had to discuss Kingsley. And if Narcissa was still there, Hermione wasn’t entirely sure what her next move was.
赫敏点点头，对金妮和纳威露出一个紧绷的笑容，但没有做出任何承诺;她不确定如果纳西莎还不在他身边，她会和卢修斯在一起多久。除了纳西莎，她和卢修斯还得讨论金斯利。如果纳西莎还在，赫敏并不完全确定她的下一步行动是什么。

“Cheers for the night out, Malfoy,” Ginny said more loudly to Draco. But Draco wasn’t looking at her - he had turned to Neville and cleared his throat, his hands folded behind his back and Hermione could see him squeezing his own fingers. 
“为今晚的演出干杯，马尔福，”金妮对德拉科大声说。但德拉科没有看她——他转向纳威，清了清嗓子，双手交叉在背后，赫敏可以看到他正在挤压自己的手指。

“Thank you for the Dittany, by the way, Longbottom,” Draco said stiffly, looking everywhere but at Neville’s face until he absolutely couldn’t avoid it. “Very good of you.”
“顺便说一句，谢谢你，隆巴顿，”德拉科僵硬地说，四处张望，只看着纳威的脸，直到他完全无法避免。“你真好。”

Hermione watched Neville’s eyes widen as he looked into Malfoy’s face, his throat jumping as he swallowed. Neville studied Malfoy for a second but perhaps he saw sincerity where once there might have been mockery because he finally smiled softly and shrugged like it had been nothing. “Got loads at Hogwarts. Just take good care of it.”
赫敏看着纳威睁大了眼睛看着马尔福的脸，他的喉咙在吞咽时跳动。纳威端详了马尔福一会儿，但也许他看到了真诚，而曾经可能会有嘲笑的地方，因为他终于温柔地笑了笑，耸了耸肩，仿佛什么都没发生过。“在霍格沃茨吃了很多东西。好好照顾它就好了。

They said their goodbyes and Hermione waved from her place by Draco’s side, sending her love to Harry and Ron through Ginny and Neville. 
他们道别了，赫敏从德拉科身边的位置上挥手致意，通过金妮和纳威向哈利和罗恩表达了她的爱。

“Might have been better to go with them, you know,” Draco said under his breath to Hermione as he nodded his goodbyes to other guests. “Enjoy the rest of your night and come back tomorrow.”
“和他们一起去可能会更好，你知道的，”德拉科低声对赫敏说，同时向其他客人点头告别。“享受你剩下的夜晚，明天再来。”

Shaking her head, Hermione looked up at him. “This whole thing was for me,” she said. “I’ll see it out.” 
赫敏摇了摇头，抬头看着他。“这整件事都是为了我，”她说。“我去看看。”

Together, she and Draco stationed themselves by the door of the ballroom and said their thank yous and goodbyes to everyone as they passed.  When the last guests finally departed, leaning on one another for support after one too many glasses of champagne, a relieved exhale escaped Draco, his entire body seeming to deflate, as the door closed with a resounding clang behind them.
她和德拉科一起站在舞厅的门口，在他们经过时向每个人道谢和告别。当最后几位客人终于离开时，在喝了太多杯香槟后，他们互相依靠着彼此寻求支持，德拉科松了一口气，他的整个身体似乎都泄了气，门在他们身后发出响亮的叮当声关上了。

“Thank Merlin,” he said, rubbing a hand across his tired eyes. “Do you know, I think all the years I’ve spent in this manor have turned me into a bit of a recluse. Every single one of those people was somehow equal parts exhausting and uninteresting.”
“谢谢Merlin，”他说，用一只手揉了揉他疲惫的眼睛。“你知道吗，我觉得我在这座庄园里度过的这些年已经把我变成了一个有点隐居的人。那些人中的每一个人在某种程度上都同样令人筋疲力尽且无趣。

Not entirely listening, Hermione hummed noncommittally, prompting Draco to make an irritated scoffing sound in the back of his throat. “Just go, Granger,” he said, waving a hand in the direction of the door. “Your mind is already up there with him so your body might as well follow.”
赫敏没有完全听进去，漫不经心地哼了一声，这让德拉科的喉咙后部发出了恼怒的嘲讽声。“走吧，格兰杰，”他说，朝门的方向挥了挥手。“你的思想已经和他在一起了，所以你的身体也跟着走。”

“No,” Hermione insisted, shaking her head to bring herself back into the room. “I’m sorry, Malfoy, I want to help you sort this –” Hermione looked around the ballroom, seeing cocktail tables littered with canapés and empty glasses every few feet and waved a weak hand. “This.”
“不，”赫敏坚持说，摇了摇头，让自己回到房间里。“对不起，马尔福，我想帮你解决这个问题——”赫敏环顾宴会厅，看到每隔几英尺就堆满了小吃和空杯子的鸡尾酒桌，无力地挥了挥手。“这个。”

“Don’t be ridiculous, Letty will get this.” On seeing the frown developing on Hermione’s face, Draco raised a hand. “Don’t even start. I’m not going to make an arduous evening worse by insulting my elf because of your inability to just leave something. Go. I won’t be offended.”
“别荒谬，Letty会明白的。”看到赫敏脸上皱起的眉头，德拉科举起了一只手。“甚至不要开始。我不会因为你无法留下什么而侮辱我的精灵，从而让一个艰难的夜晚变得更糟。去。我不会生气的。

Hesitating on the spot, Hermione took in his uncompromising expression and finally relented with a nod. “Alright, fine. Thank you, Malfoy.” Hermione swept a hand out. “For this, obviously. But for…well, you know.”
赫敏当场犹豫了一下，接受了他毫不妥协的表情，最后点了点头。“好吧，好吧。谢谢你，马尔福。赫敏伸出一只手。“显然，为了这个。但是为了......嗯，你知道的。

Malfoy nodded to indicate that he did, indeed, know, and as Hermione turned to go, he cleared his throat. Pausing mid-step, Hermione half-turned back to him, the size of the ballroom making the distance between them feel larger than it actually was.
马尔福点点头表示他确实知道，当赫敏转身要走时，他清了清嗓子。赫敏在半步中停了下来，半转身回到他身边，舞厅的大小让他们之间的距离感觉比实际更大。

“Granger,” he said, cupping the back of his neck and looking away from her, a grimace on his face. “Look, if I’m being completely honest with you, I’d really rather they were still together. If it were up to me – not that anything ever seems to be – they would be.”
“格兰杰，”他说，搂着他的后颈，把目光从她身上移开，脸上露出愁苦的表情。“听着，如果我对你完全诚实，我真的宁愿他们还是在一起。如果由我决定——并不是说任何事情似乎都不是——他们会的。

Hermione swallowed hard, a sinking, guilty feeling descending into the pit of her stomach. 
赫敏用力咽了口口水，一股沉沦的、内疚的感觉涌入了她的胃深处。

“But…” Draco continued, glancing back at her with a puzzled sort of frown. “But they’re not. They haven’t been for a while. My mother seemed to be incapable of saying the right thing to him after the war –”
“但是......”德拉科继续说，回头瞥了她一眼，带着一种困惑的皱眉。“但他们不是。他们已经有一段时间没有了。战后我妈妈似乎没能力对他说正确的话——”

“Malfoy –”
“马尔福——”

Draco ignored her. “I don’t think that was her fault. I don’t even know if it was his. Maybe it doesn’t need to be anyone’s, I don’t know. Feels a bit pointless to assign blame now.” He sighed, tipping his head back and closing his eyes. “I don’t know the details and I really don’t want to – like, really – but you’ve done something right with him these past few months and I…I appreciate it.”
德拉科没有理会她。“我不认为那是她的错。我什至不知道是不是他的。也许它不需要是任何人的，我不知道。现在归咎于感觉有点没意义。他叹了口气，把头向后仰，闭上了眼睛。“我不知道细节，我真的不想——就像，真的——但你在过去几个月里对他做了一些正确的事情，我......我很感激。

“I…see,” Hermione said somewhat pathetically, not sure of what the right words were.
“我......看，“赫敏有点可怜地说，不确定该怎么说。

Malfoy’s responding smile was wry. “No, you don’t. Not really. That’s fine, though.”
马尔福的回应是苦笑。“不，你不需要。没有。不过，这没关系。

“What are you trying to say, Malfoy?” Hermione asked, wishing that just once a Malfoy could be straightforward.
“你想说什么，马尔福？”赫敏问道，希望马尔福能简单明了一次。

His shoulders jumped up in a chuckle and he shoved his hands into his pockets. “I’m saying , Granger, that…I suppose I’m saying that I don’t mind that you’re the one going up there.” Draco’s eyes swept the room, taking in the mess with a dispassionate air. “There’s only so much me, Astoria and a house elf can do, I guess.”
他的肩膀咯咯地笑着跳起来，双手口袋里。“我是说，格兰杰，那个......我想我是说，我不介意你是上去的人。德拉科的眼睛扫视着房间，以一种冷静的气氛观察着这片混乱。“我猜，我、阿斯托利亚和一个家养小精灵能做的就这么多了。”

Hermione wanted to assure Malfoy that she hadn’t done any more or any better than him; that the years he’d spent backing his father had been worth far more than the few months she’d spent with him; that Lucius would be just as happy, perhaps better off, having him at that moment instead of her; that she was sorry about his parents.
赫敏想向马尔福保证，她并没有比他做得更多或更好;他支持他父亲的岁月，远比她和他在一起的几个月更有价值;卢修斯也会同样高兴，也许会更好，因为那一刻有他而不是她;她对他的父母感到抱歉。

Before she could, however, he met her eyes. “I’m saying it’s good to have someone else that cares. Someone who doesn't ask why I'm still here.”
然而，在她来得及之前，他与她的眼睛相遇了。“我是说有其他人关心真是太好了。一个不问我为什么还在这里的人。

Swallowing down her words, Hermione offered him a smile, a warm feeling of acceptance tingling through her. He didn’t need reassurances; he was giving them.
赫敏吞下她的话，向他微笑，一种温暖的接纳感在她身上刺痛。他不需要安慰;他给了他们。

“Right,” Draco said gruffly, nodding his head at the door. “Go. You need to get out before I call Letty – she’ll have kittens if she knows you’ve seen the ballroom in such a state.”
“好吧，”德拉科粗鲁地说，对着门口点了点头。“走吧。在我打电话给莱蒂之前，你得出去——如果她知道你见过这种状态的舞厅，她就会养小猫的。

Hermione’s first knock on Lucius’ study door was soft to the point of being inaudible but the longer she waited for a response, the more firm she became until there was a stinging in her knuckles. She was just considering turning her hand on its side to beat the wood when a voice stopped her.
赫敏第一次敲响卢修斯书房的门，轻柔到听不见，但她等待回应的时间越长，她就越坚定，直到指关节发出刺痛。她正想把手转过来敲打木头，这时一个声音阻止了她。

“I wondered if you’d be by.”
“我想知道你是否会在身边。”

Hermione paused, her hand hanging in the air and looked around. “Sabine?” It took turning on the spot for Hermione to finally find Sabine in the painting on the wall directly across from Lucius’ closed door. She was leaning on a low, crumbling stone wall, seemingly unbothered by the lamb that was curiously nibbling at the bottom of her robes.
赫敏停顿了一下，她的手悬在空中，环顾四周。“萨宾？”赫敏原地转过身来，终于在卢修斯紧闭的门对面墙上的画中找到了萨宾。她靠在一堵低矮、摇摇欲坠的石墙上，似乎对那只好奇地啃咬她袍子底部的小羊毫不在意。

“He’s not in there,” Sabine said simply.
“他不在那儿，”Sabine 简单地说。

“Whe –”
“哎呀——”

“He left,” she said. “Not long after her.”
“他走了，”她说。“不久之后。”

There was a pause in which Sabine studied Hermione, perhaps to see if ‘her’ meant anything or was of any significance. Of course, it did and it was, so Hermione met Sabine’s eyes and nodded her understanding.
萨宾停顿了一下，打量着赫敏，也许是想看看“她”有什么意义或意义。当然，确实如此，而且确实如此，所以赫敏对上了萨宾的眼睛，点头表示理解。

“How…how was he?” she asked.
“怎么......他怎么样？

Sabine’s eyes drifted upwards towards the cloudless blue skies above her, her mouth opening as she considered her next words. “Distracted,” she finally said, dropping her gaze to Hermione again. 
Sabine 的眼睛向上飘向头顶万里无云的蓝天，她张大了嘴巴，考虑着接下来的话。“分心了，”她终于说了，再次把目光投向赫敏。

Hermione sighed. “When was that?”
赫敏叹了口气。“那是什么时候？”

“We don’t really do time, dear,” Sabine said, gesturing to the perpetually sunlit wide open field of her portrait before she stooped to shoo the lamb away from her robes.
“我们真的没有时间，亲爱的，”Sabine说，指着她画像上永远阳光明媚的开阔场地，然后弯腰把小羊从她的长袍上赶走。

“Well, if you had to guess ?”
“嗯，如果你必须猜的话？”

“An hour ago,” Sabine estimated, straightening up and placing her hands on her hips. “Maybe two.”
“一个小时前，”Sabine 估计着，直起身来，双手放在臀部上。“也许两个。”

“Where did he go?” It felt too late for him to have gone to the greenhouse or the kennels and Hermione was sure he wouldn’t have secreted himself in the kitchen when there were guests and Aurors on that side of the manor.
“他去哪儿了？”对他来说，去温室或狗窝已经太晚了，赫敏确信他不会把自己藏在厨房里，因为庄园的那一边有客人和傲罗。

“Upstairs,” Sabine said. “To his room.” 
“在楼上，”Sabine 说。“到他的房间去。”

It was so odd to Hermione that the study was not Lucius’ room. It was so…him. Was there, in fact, a room that was more him? Apparently so. And apparently it was on a floor of the manor that she hadn’t even visited.
赫敏觉得太奇怪了，书房不是卢修斯的房间。太......他。事实上，有没有一个房间更像他？显然是这样。显然，那是在庄园的一层楼上，她甚至都没去过。

“Can you take me?” To Hermione’s surprise, Sabine looked almost hesitant and she wondered if it was for Lucius’ sake or her own. When no reply was forthcoming, Hermione added, “Please, Sabine”, her tone appealing.
“你能带我走吗？”令赫敏惊讶的是，萨宾看起来几乎犹豫不决，她想知道这是为了卢修斯还是为了她自己。当没有人回答时，赫敏又说了一句，“拜托了，萨宾”，她的语气很吸引人。

Absently rubbing her hand over the rough stone of the wall, Sabine assessed Hermione, her lips pursed. After a moment, she sighed. “Very well. You can hardly make things worse, can you?”
萨宾心不在焉地用手在粗糙的石头上摩擦，抿着嘴唇打量着赫敏。过了一会儿，她叹了口气。“很好。你几乎不会让事情变得更糟，对吧？

Dusting specks of dirt from her palm, Sabine lifted her robes slightly and turned, jerking her head to invite Hermione to follow. “Come on, then. It’s not far.”
萨宾掸去手掌上的泥土，微微掀起她的长袍，转过身来，猛地摇头让赫敏跟上。“那么，来吧。不远。

Lucius was so lost in his thoughts that he didn’t hear the first knocks on his bedroom door. Then, when he did hear them, he didn’t bother to acknowledge them. Until they became so insistent and irritating that he was forced to push himself up into a sitting position on his bed and glare across the room in their direction. 
卢修斯沉浸在自己的思绪中，以至于他没有听到卧室门的第一声敲门声。然后，当他真的听到他们时，他懒得承认他们。直到他们变得如此坚持和恼怒，以至于他被迫在床上坐起来，瞪着房间对面他们的方向。

When that didn’t stop the incessant pounding, Lucius growled and rose to his feet, crossing the room in a few strides to haul the door open. His angry words died in his throat when he found Hermione standing there in a long black gown. He squinted at her, like he wasn’t entirely sure whether he was really seeing her. 
当这还没能阻止不断的敲击声时，卢修斯咆哮着站了起来，大步穿过房间，把门拉开了。当他发现赫敏穿着一件黑色长袍站在那里时，他的愤怒话语在喉咙里消失了。他眯着眼睛看着她，好像他不完全确定自己是否真的看到了她。

Lucius wasn’t sure why he hadn’t expected it to be her. He wasn’t even really sure who he’d expected. A returning Narcissa, perhaps, ready to give him a further dressing down. Or Letty bearing a plate with enough food for three and bleating about his missed dinner. To his dismay, Lucius found that, with Narcissa's words echoing in his mind, he wasn’t overjoyed to see Hermione. 
卢修斯不知道为什么他没想到会是她。他甚至不确定自己期待的是谁。也许，一个回归的纳西莎，准备让他进一步穿衣服。或者 Letty 拿着一个盘子，里面装满了足够三个人吃的食物，咆哮着说他错过了晚餐。令他沮丧的是，卢修斯发现，纳西莎的话在他的脑海中回荡，他看到赫敏并没有高兴。

Did Hermione know that Narcissa had been in the manor? Had she seen her in the ballroom as Narcissa had certainly seen her ? He wasn’t sure he wanted to have that discussion without sufficient time to process and prepare.
赫敏知道纳西莎一直在庄园里吗？她在舞厅里见过她，就像纳西莎肯定见过她一样吗？他不确定自己是否想在没有足够的时间来处理和准备的情况下进行这种讨论。

Keeping one hand on the door, he leaned another against the frame, blocking entry to the room. “Hermione,” he said, his voice low and filled with reticence. 
他一只手扶着门，另一只手靠在门框上，挡住了房间的入口。“赫敏，”他说，他的声音低沉而沉默。

“Let her in, Lucius,” came a firm voice from over Hermione’s head.
“让她进来，卢修斯，”赫敏的头顶传来一个坚定的声音。

Lucius’ eyes darted up and he spied, through the darkness of the corridor, Sabine’s familiar blue robes within an ornate bronze frame. Of course she had meddled. They were both interminable meddlers; the most troublesome pair. 
卢修斯的眼睛猛地抬起，他透过走廊的黑暗，窥视着萨宾熟悉的蓝色长袍，里面是华丽的青铜框架。她当然插手了。他们都是无休止的多管闲事的人;最麻烦的一对。

“Don’t be a fool,” Sabine added, her voice sharp. 
“别当傻瓜，”Sabine 补充道，她的声音尖锐。

Unwilling to embroil himself in what was sure to be a demeaning argument, Lucius swallowed a petulant retort, dropped his hand from the door frame and grunted. Turning back into the room, he left the door ajar for Hermione to follow him. The sound of quiet shuffling and the soft click of the door closing confirmed that she did.
卢修斯不愿卷入这场肯定会是贬低性的争论中，他吞下了一句娇气的反驳，把手从门框上放下来，咕哝了一声。他转身回到房间，把门半开着，让赫敏跟着他。安静的拖曳声和关门的轻柔咔嗒声证实了她确实如此。

He crossed the pale stone floor of the room in a few strides, stopping at a large white vanity on the far right wall. The bottle of firewhiskey he had been drinking lay empty on its surface and Lucius poked pointlessly at the bottle before catching his own, slightly bloodshot eye in the mirror. 
他大步跨过房间苍白的石头地板，在最右边墙壁上的一个巨大的白色梳妆台前停了下来。他一直喝的那瓶火威士忌空空如也地躺在瓶子上，卢修斯毫无意义地戳了戳瓶子，然后对上了镜子里他自己那只略带血丝的眼睛。

He looked tired and drawn, his clothes crumpled and messy from his time spent lying down. One bloody encounter with Narcissa and he’d crumbled. He gave himself a disgusted look and attempted to straighten himself back up. As he did, he spied Hermione’s reflection facing him from the middle of the room. 
他看起来疲惫不堪，疲惫不堪，他的衣服因躺着的时间而皱巴巴的，凌乱不堪。与纳西莎的一次血腥相遇，他崩溃了。他厌恶地看了自己一眼，试图让自己站直。当他这样做的时候，他从房间中央看到了赫敏面对他的倒影。

Clearing his throat, he turned to her and attempted to offer her something close to a smile without meeting her eyes. There was no chance it looked sincere because she appeared wholly uncomfortable and almost nervous. It had been a long time since he’d seen her so unsettled in his presence. 
清了清嗓子，他转向她，试图向她提供一个近乎微笑的东西，但没有与她的眼睛对上。这看起来不可能很真诚，因为她看起来完全不舒服，几乎是紧张的。他已经很久没有看到她在他面前如此不安了。

How long, Lucius, before you realise that you’re just going to ruin her life by association in the way that you apparently so feared you were ruining mine?
Lucius，你要多久才会意识到，你只会因为交往而毁掉她的生活，就像你显然如此担心你毁了我的生活一样？

“Well,” he began stiltedly, pausing to clear his throat. “How did it go?”
“嗯，”他生硬地开始说，停下来清了清嗓子。“进展如何？”

Unable to meet her eyes, he allowed his gaze to settle on her fidgeting hands, which were pressed together in front of her at waist level. 
由于无法与她的眼睛对视，他的目光落在她坐立不安的手上，这双手在她的腰部齐平。

“It went…well,” she said hesitantly, eyeing his tense posture. Then, more confidently, “It went well. I got plenty of business cards and –” Hermione held out a hand and revealed to him that she’d been fidgeting with the cards. They'd left faint red marks on her palms where she'd been clutching them too tightly.
“事情进展得......好吧，“她犹豫地说，看着他紧张的姿势。然后，他更加自信地说，“进展顺利。我有很多名片，而且——“赫敏伸出一只手，向他透露她一直在摆弄这些名片。它们在她的手掌上留下了淡淡的红色痕迹，她把它们攥得太紧了。

Seeming to find some more certainty, Hermione crossed the room towards him, her hand outstretched. Lucius took the proffered business cards, again not looking at her face, and flicked through them, pausing at the more familiar names. 
赫敏似乎找到了更多的确定性，她穿过房间向他走来，伸出了手。卢修斯接过递来的名片，再次没有看她的脸，翻阅了一下，停顿在那些更熟悉的名字上。

"Some good contacts," he murmured. "Not all utterly useless, at the very least." Lucius set the cards on the vanity and half-turned away from her, looking into the mirror.
“一些很好的人脉，”他喃喃自语。“至少，并非全是完全无用的。”卢修斯把卡片放在梳妆台上，半转身离开她，看着镜子。

"And I suppose you’re here to tell me off now," he said, dispassionately examining the lines at the corners of his eyes. "For springing that on you?"
“我想你现在是来告别我的，”他说，冷静地检查着他眼角的皱纹。“为了把这种东西放在你身上？”

"No, I’m not," Hermione said, frowning at the back of his head. "Though I’d be well within my rights to and you know it."
“不，我不是，”赫敏皱着眉头说。“虽然我完全在我的权利范围内，你知道的。”

Lucius scoffed softly and shook his head. Of course he knew it. "Then why are you here?"
卢修斯轻声嘲笑，摇了摇头。他当然知道。“那你为什么在这里？”

"Why am I –" Hermione stopped herself and he thought he heard her attempt to swallow down some irritation. "Why are you being so bloody rude ?" Whatever irritation she had managed to swallow, she spat back up with that last word.
“我为什么——”赫敏停下了脚步，他觉得他听到了她试图压制住一些恼怒。“你怎么这么粗鲁？”无论她设法吞下了什么恼怒，她还是用最后一个字吐了出来。

"I’m being nothing but myself and if you find that so terribly unpalatable then –"
“我只是我自己，如果你觉得这太难受了，那——”

"No, you're not," Hermione snapped. "If you were being yourself you'd look at me properly."
“不，你不是，”赫敏厉声说。“如果你做你自己，你会好好看着我。”

Perhaps you feel like her kindness, her affection, is some kind of absolution?
也许你觉得她的善良，她的爱，是某种赦免？

Lucius’ shoulders dropped and he tapped a finger on the surface of the vanity once, twice, before he finally looked up and met her eyes in the mirror. She stared back, unblinking, and he was reminded of just how much of an unyielding Gryffindor she was – she would sooner bite his head off than let him slither around or away from her.
卢修斯的肩膀垂下来，他用手指在梳妆台的表面敲了一下，两次，最后他抬起头来，与镜子里的她对上了眼睛。她回头凝视着，一眨不眨，这让他想起了她是多么不屈不挠的格兰芬多——她宁愿咬掉他的头，也不愿让他溜达或远离她。

She will not restore you. You will most likely ruin her and you are deluded if you think she will be willing to languish in this manor as I was.
她不会让你恢复的。你很可能会毁了她，如果你认为她会愿意像我一样在这个庄园里煎熬，那你就是被骗了。

“Properly, Lucius,” she said, her voice softer but still firm. 
“没错，卢修斯，”她说，她的声音更柔和但仍然坚定。

Taking a deep breath through his nose, Lucius turned to Hermione. Slowly, he trailed his eyes up the silk of her black gown, which looked like wet tar in the dim candlelight of his bedroom, over the delicate jut of her collarbone, until he met her warm, brown eyes. 
卢修斯用鼻子深吸一口气，转向赫敏。他慢慢地顺着她黑色礼服的丝绸向上看，在卧室昏暗的烛光下，这件礼服在她精致的锁骨上，看起来像湿漉漉的焦油，直到他遇到了她温暖的棕色眼睛。

They were so different from Narcissa's that it stopped him for a moment. The longer he looked in them, the more comforted he felt. Comforted enough that he stepped away from the vanity towards her, relieved when she didn’t move out of reach. On reaching her, he ran a gentle hand down the curve of her hips. A small shiver shook her frame as he made contact.
他们和纳西莎的截然不同，以至于他停了一会儿。他看得越久，就越感到安慰。他感到足够安慰，从梳妆台上走到她身边，当她没有离开时，他松了一口气。一到她身边，他就用一只温柔的手顺着她的臀部曲线滑下。当他接触时，她的身体轻轻地颤抖了一下。

A man apparently so afraid that his wife might hate him that he couldn’t bear to give her the chance to love him.
这个男人显然非常害怕他的妻子会恨他，以至于他不忍心给她爱他的机会。

Lucius could admit that he wasn't especially good at seeing mistakes as he was making them but continuing to exhibit reticence towards a witch who did not deserve it felt like one. One he had made before. 
卢修斯可以承认，他并不是特别擅长看到他所犯的错误，但继续对一个不值得的女巫保持沉默感觉就像一个。他以前做过。

"How's this?" he asked, his eyes unwavering on hers. 
“怎么样？” 他问道，眼睛坚定不移地盯着她。

"Better," she said, her voice barely above a whisper. 
“好多了，”她说，她的声音勉强算是耳语。

“You look lovely,” he said, his volume lowering to matching hers. "Perhaps I should have started with that."
“你看起来很可爱，”他说，他的音量降低到与她的音量相匹配。“也许我应该从那个开始。”

“Thank you,” Hermione said, sounding somewhat stiff, like she was fighting the urge to keep holding his earlier rudeness against him. “Though credit for that is mostly due to your son.”
“谢谢你，”赫敏说，听起来有些僵硬，就像她在克制住继续忍受他先前的粗鲁的冲动。“不过这主要归功于你的儿子。”

Remembering Narcissa’s jibe, a small frown drew Lucius’ brows together and he ran a thumb over the dress where Hermione’s waist dipped, his fingertips pressing into her hip. “Is this really a nightdress?” he asked. 
想起纳西莎的嘲讽，卢修斯微微皱起眉头，他用拇指滑过赫敏腰部垂下的裙子，指尖压在她的臀部。“这真的是睡裙吗？”

Hermione shifted uncomfortably, shrugging, but she didn’t draw away from his touch. “Yes. Like I said, credit is due to your son. He’s surprisingly skilled at fabric transfiguration.”
赫敏不舒服地动了动，耸了耸肩，但她并没有从他的触碰中抽身。“是的。就像我说的，功劳是你儿子的功劳。他在织物变形方面出奇的熟练。

“You really have no other formalwear?”
“你真的没有别的正装吗？”

“I don’t have a need for it.”
“我不需要它。”

“Tonight shows that’s patently untrue,” he said, raising a disapproving brow. “And if your book does well there will be other events.” He paused for a moment, studying her face. “I could buy you anything you need, you know. You could have wardrobes full of dress robes.”
“今晚表明这显然是不真实的，”他说，扬起了不赞同的眉毛。“如果你的书卖得好，还会有其他活动。”他停顿了一会儿，端详着她的脸。“我可以给你买任何你需要的东西，你知道的。你的衣橱里可以装满礼服长袍。

Hermione’s lip curled in an almost comical fashion, like he’d just place something particularly foul-smelling in front of her. “I have no interest in you buying me things,” she said. “My clothes are fine.”
赫敏的嘴唇以一种近乎滑稽的方式卷曲，就像他只是在她面前放了什么特别难闻的东西。“我对你给我买东西没兴趣，”她说。“我的衣服很好。”

Lucius had never thought Hermione was interested in access to his vault but hearing her reject his offer with such clear disgust made a flash of relief pass through him, alongside some vindictive satisfaction that Narcissa was wrong. About that, at least. 
卢修斯从来没有想过赫敏对进入他的金库感兴趣，但听到她以如此明显的厌恶拒绝他的提议，他心中闪过一丝宽慰，同时对纳西莎错了感到报复性的满足。至少是这样。

“The offer is always there,” he said. 
“报价一直在那里，”他说。

“I didn’t come here to speak to you about my wardrobe, Lucius.”
“我来这里不是为了和你谈我的衣橱，卢修斯。”

“What else could we possibly have to talk about?” he asked, trying to sound flippant as he closed the small amount of space left between them and encircled her waist with his arms. 
“我们还能谈什么呢？”他问道，一边拉近他们之间剩下的一点空间，一边用手臂环住她的腰，尽量显得轻率。

Hermione’s eyes creased at the corners as she narrowed them and looked up at him. She could, he was sure, see right through the fact that he was attempting to avoid whatever she had in mind for him, whether it was conversation or confrontation. He’d had his fill of difficult discussions for one evening.
赫敏的眼睛在眼角上皱起，眯起眼睛，抬头看着他。他确信，她能看穿他试图避免她对他心中的一切，无论是对话还是对抗。他已经度过了一个晚上的艰难讨论。

“Quite a few things actually –” Her voice stuttered to a halt and she looked down as he trailed a hand up the soft skin of her arm and hooked a finger beneath the strap of her dress. “They’re important.”
“其实挺多的事——”她的声音沙哑停顿了一下，她低头看着他一只手顺着她手臂柔软的皮肤滑上去，用一根手指勾住了她裙子的带子下面。“他们很重要。”

“Are they indeed?” Lucius raised his eyebrows and pushed out his lower lip in a mock show of interest as he gently tugged at the strap of her dress so that it fell from her shoulder. 
“真的吗？”卢修斯扬起眉毛，假装感兴趣地伸出下嘴唇，轻轻拉扯她裙子的带子，让它从她的肩膀上掉下来。

“Lucius –” Hermione broke off again when Lucius lowered his head and pressed his lips to her bare shoulder. 
“卢修斯——”当卢修斯低下头，将嘴唇贴在她裸露的肩膀上时，赫敏又打断了他。

“Yes?” he asked, his voice slightly muffled into her skin.
“是吗？” 他问道，他的声音略微低沉地渗入了她的皮肤。

“I know what you’re doing.”
“我知道你在做什么。”

“You just did so terribly well this evening,’ he said. “I can’t help myself around such a clever, successful witch.”
“你今晚表现得太好了，”他说。我无法控制自己面对这样一个聪明、成功的女巫。

He was laying it on incredibly thick – to the point of insincerity and they both knew it – yet Hermione allowed him to continue, her head dropping to the side slightly to give him better access to her neck.
他把它涂得非常厚——到了不真诚的地步，他们都知道——但赫敏允许他继续，她的头微微低向一边，以便让他更好地接近她的脖子。

“Why don’t we just speak in the morning?” he ventured to suggest, lifting his head to look down at her.
“我们为什么不在早上谈谈呢？”他大胆地提议道，抬起头低头看着她。

“I came to speak now,” she said, her voice slightly more husky as her eyes fluttered open to fix him with an uncompromising look. “I’m not leaving.”
“我现在是来说话的，”她说，她的声音略显沙哑，因为她的眼睛颤抖着睁开，用一种毫不妥协的眼神注视着他。“我不会走的。”

“I didn’t suggest that you leave.”
“我没建议你走。”

‘You mean –”
“你是说——”

“Stay.”
“留下来。”

Pressing her lips together, Hermione glanced over to his large four poster bed that sat against the centre of the back wall of the room. He spotted a jump in her throat as she swallowed and turned back to him but she didn’t give him a response. Lucius raised a brow, tilting his head as he trailed his eyes down her. “You’re already in a nightdress…”
赫敏紧抿着嘴唇，瞥了一眼靠在房间后墙中央的那张四柱大床。当她咽咽并转身看向他时，他发现她的喉咙一跳，但她没有回应他。卢修斯扬起眉毛，歪着头，目光顺着她往下看。“你已经穿上了睡裙......”

Hermione snorted with unwilling amusement but the slight tilt to her brow told him that she still wasn’t convinced. 
赫敏不情愿地哼了一声，但她微微的眉头歪着告诉他，她还是不相信。

“If you’d prefer not –”
“如果你不想——”

“No,” she interjected quickly. “No, it’s not that. It’s…people might wonder where I am.” Awkwardly, she looked down at the small sliver of floor between their feet. “If I’m not at home. If they come looking, say.”
“不，”她迅速插嘴。“不，不是那个。它。。。人们可能会想知道我在哪里。她尴尬地低头看着他们脚下的一小块地板。“如果我不在家。如果他们来看，就说。

People . People were her friends, he could only assume. Those she cared about. Those who might see her in a negative light through her association with him. Even if he didn’t want to ruin her, he couldn’t control the reactions of other people. 
人。人们就是她的朋友，他只能假设。那些她关心的人。那些可能会通过她与他的交往对她产生负面影响的人。就算他不想毁了她，他也控制不住别人的反应。

A sinking in his chest, Lucius attempted to steel himself but only managed to drum up something that felt closer to a sort of squashed resignation. “We don't need to carry on,” he said with as much dignity as he could muster. “We could stop this.”
卢修斯的胸口一沉，他试图让自己变得坚强起来，但只能设法鼓起一些感觉更接近于某种被压扁的顺从的东西。“我们不需要继续下去，”他尽可能地带着尊严说。“我们可以阻止这种情况。”

It wasn’t what he wanted by any means but, after everything Narcissa had said, he felt he ought to offer it up as an option. Now that others knew about their relationship, he had a sense that they were quickly approaching a crossroads where the paths were 'end it' or 'reveal it'. Secrecy was no longer an option.
这绝不是他想要的，但是，在纳西莎说了这么多之后，他觉得他应该把它作为一个选项。现在其他人都知道了他们的关系，他有一种感觉，他们很快就接近了一个十字路口，在那里，道路是 “结束它 ”或 “揭示它”。保密不再是一种选择。

After all the pain he had caused Hermione in the past – directly and indirectly – Lucius reluctantly acknowledged that he owed it to her to ensure that he didn’t cause her any more. Even if it did strike him as unfair that he was not allowed to engage with the outside world, yet still had to mind it.
在他过去直接或间接地给赫敏带来了所有痛苦之后，卢修斯不情愿地承认他欠她，以确保他不会再给她带来痛苦。即使他不被允许与外界接触确实让他觉得不公平，但仍然不得不介意它。

Hermione’s head snapped up and she gave him an alarmed look. “That's not what I want.”
赫敏猛地抬起头，警惕地看了他一眼。“那不是我想要的。”

"I'm sure that it isn't, right now."
“我确定现在不是。”

"Right now –?"
“现在——？”

"But down the line –" Hermione attempted to speak over him and he squeezed her to request her patience. "But down the line , when there are…others to consider, do account for the possibility that your wants could change."
“但说到底——”赫敏试图对他说，他捏了捏她，请求她耐心等待。“但最终，当有......其他需要考虑的，确实考虑到您的需求可能会发生变化的可能性。

"That won't happen," she said with a brand of staunch certainty that was particular to Gryffindors. "I want this and…and I don't care what people think." He rather got the impression she was convincing herself as much as him with that last part, though.
“那不会发生的，”她带着一种格兰芬多特有的坚定的确定说。“我想要这个，而且......我不在乎人们怎么想。不过，他反而觉得她在最后部分和他一样说服自己。

“Even if it ruins you?” The question came out before he could stop it, more bitter than he would have wished. 
“就算它毁了你？”在他能够阻止之前，这个问题就出现了，比他所希望的还要痛苦。

Eyes flicking back and forth between his, like she was trying to see something between his words, Hermione spoke slowly and carefully. “I don’t think this…you won’t ruin me, Lucius.”
赫敏的眼睛在他的眼睛之间来回扫动，就像她试图从他的话语中看到什么一样，赫敏缓慢而小心地说道。“我不认为这......你不会毁了我，卢修斯。

“Association with me isn’t exactly something people are seeking out these days,” Lucius said, his eyes fixing on where her dress strap was still dangling around her upper arm.
“如今人们并不完全寻求与我的交往，”Lucius 说，他的眼睛盯着她的裙带仍然挂在上臂上的地方。

Rolling her eyes, Hermione scoffed. “It hardly hurt me to be associated with you downstairs earlier. All those people didn’t mind coming into your home, or drinking your champagne, or eating your food.
赫敏翻了个白眼，嘲笑道。“早点在楼下和你交往，我几乎没什么坏处。所有这些人都不介意进入你的家，喝你的香槟，吃你的食物。

Lucius’ smile didn’t reach his eyes. “The morbidly curious like to observe and orbit. You currently have enough distance from me for them to feel comfortable around you but you’re close enough to fascinate them. That might change if they knew the true nature of our relationship.”
卢修斯的笑容没有到达他的眼睛。“病态的好奇心喜欢观察和环绕。你目前离我有足够的距离，让他们在你身边感到舒适，但你离得足够近，足以让他们着迷。如果他们知道我们关系的真正性质，这种情况可能会改变。

Appearing faintly disgusted, Hermione said, “Well, maybe I want you to ruin me, then.”
赫敏显得有些厌恶，说：“好吧，也许我想让你毁了我。

Momentarily taken aback, Lucius opened his mouth and then closed it, his lips pressing together disapprovingly. “You want me to ruin you?”
卢修斯瞬间吃了一惊，张开了嘴，然后又闭上了，他的嘴唇不以为然地紧紧地合在一起。“你想让我毁了你？”

Hermione dropped his gaze and shrugged with the air of someone deciding they didn’t care either way. “Maybe.” Her eyes flicked up to his and her mouth twisted in a defensive cringe at the sight of his grave expression. “Well, if the alternative is consorting with a bunch of gawping, leeching orbiters – or, God forbid, becoming one – then I definitely do. I'd rather be honest, here with you.”
赫敏垂下目光，耸了耸肩，似乎有人决定他们也不在乎。“也许吧。”她的眼睛眨向他，她的嘴巴在看到他严肃的表情时扭曲成一种防御性的畏缩。“嗯，如果替代方案是与一群目瞪口呆、偷偷摸摸的轨道飞行器——或者，上帝保佑，成为其中一员——那么我肯定会这样做。我宁愿说实话，和你在一起。

With a sound that was somewhere between a sigh and a laugh, Lucius pinched the bridge of his nose. “You're making it very difficult to do the right thing, Hermione.”
卢修斯用一种介于叹息和笑声之间的声音，捏了捏他的鼻梁。“你让做正确的事变得非常困难，赫敏。”

“The right thing for who exactly?”
“到底适合谁？”

“For you,” he replied, with a thread of impatience in his voice as he took his hand away from his face to look down at her again. 
“为了你，”他回答道，声音里带着一丝不耐烦，同时把手从他的脸上移开，再次低头看着她。

With an exasperated sigh, Hermione extracted herself from his arms and placed her hands on her hips, her eyes gleaming fiercely. 
赫敏恼怒地叹了口气，从他的怀里挣脱出来，双手放在臀部上，眼睛里闪烁着凶狠的光芒。

“This is why I had good reason to tell you off for your little stunt downstairs," she said, "Your good intentions aside, Lucius, I'll decide what's right for me, thank you very much. You're not my father and I certainly don't ever want you to act like it.” 
“这就是为什么我有充分的理由因为你在楼下的小噱头而告别你，”她说，“撇开你的好意不谈，卢修斯，我会决定什么适合我，非常感谢你。你不是我爸爸，我当然不希望你表现得像我爸爸一样。

Pausing, she studied his pinched expression and appeared to deliberate something before taking a verbal plunge. “What exactly happened with Narcissa? I saw her.”
停顿了一下，她端详着他紧绷的表情，似乎在深思熟虑了什么，然后才开始言语上的尝试。“纳西莎到底怎么了？我看到了她。

Lucius pressed his tongue against the roof of his mouth. Not a single part of him wanted to recount that conversation to Hermione, even the part that trusted her implicitly. It wouldn’t help her to hear it and it wouldn’t help him to tell her. “Nothing.”
卢修斯用舌头抵住他的上颚。他没有一个部分想向赫敏讲述那次谈话，即使是那个暗中信任她的部分。她听到也无济于事，他告诉她也无济于事。“没什么。”

"She obviously said something, Lucius. What did you say? What –"
“她显然说了什么，卢修斯。你说什么？什么——”

Rather than respond, Lucius gripped her upper arms and pulled her back into his body to press a firm kiss against her half-open lips, swallowing her muffled noise of surprise. 
卢修斯没有回应，而是抓住她的上臂，将她拉回自己的身体里，在她半张开的嘴唇上用力吻，吞下她低沉的惊讶声音。

“It doesn’t matter,” he said gruffly when he pulled back to fix Hermione with a serious look. “ Nothing she said matters.” He rather thought he meant it, too, and he must have put that across because, rather than argue, Hermione nodded.
“没关系，”他粗声粗气地说，同时用严肃的眼神抽身去固定赫敏。“她说的一切都不重要。”他宁愿认为他也是认真的，他一定是把这句话说出来了，因为赫敏没有争论，而是点了点头。

Naricssa still saw Hermione as a one-dimensional Mudblood – she underestimated her in practically every way. He knew better than that now. The idea that Hermione could be ruined purely by association with him felt like it was underselling her somehow. If she was the kind of witch who was likely to accept the censure and ill-formed judgements of others without a fight, he reminded himself, he would not have arranged her the event he had that evening.
纳里萨仍然将赫敏视为一维的泥巴种——她几乎在各个方面都低估了她。他现在知道的比这更清楚。赫敏可以纯粹因为与他的交往而被毁掉的想法感觉就像在某种程度上低估了她。他提醒自己，如果她是那种可能不费吹灰之力就接受别人的责备和不合时宜的评判的女巫，他就不会为她安排那天晚上的活动。

Lucius kissed his way down Hermione’s neck and pushed the other strap of her dress so that the slippery material slid down her body. “Lucius –” she said breathlessly as he pushed the dress over her hips, leaving her standing in her knickers and heels, a black puddle around her feet. “Lucius I still have to talk to you about –”
卢修斯顺着赫敏的脖子亲吻，推开她裙子的另一条带子，让滑溜溜的布料顺着她的身体滑下来。“卢修斯——”她气喘吁吁地说，他把裙子推到她的臀部上，让她穿着短裤和高跟鞋站着，脚上是一个黑色的水坑。“卢修斯，我得跟你谈谈——”

“In the morning.” 
“早上。”

He kissed her again, holding the dress with his foot as he encouraged her to step out of it and back towards the bed. “But it’s about –” Her knees hit the back of the bed and he allowed her to fall onto the soft duvet with a thump . 
他再次亲吻她，用脚握住裙子，鼓励她从裙子里走出来，回到床上。“但这是关于——”她的膝盖撞到床背上，他让她砰的一声倒在柔软的羽绒被上。

“The morning, Hermione,” he said firmly, meeting her eyes as he unbuttoned his shirt. 
“早上，赫敏，”他坚定地说，在解开衬衫的扣子时与她的眼睛相遇。

“It’s about Kingsley,” she insisted. “It’s about…it’s about you .”
“这是关于金斯利的，”她坚持说。“这是关于......这是关于你的。

He stopped then, his hand lowering slowly from his shirt. Based on her demeanour and the general run of his luck, he was fairly certain it wasn’t good news. “Does this – whatever it is – require immediate action?” he asked. “Can it be dealt with tonight? Right now?”
然后他停了下来，手慢慢地从衬衫上垂下来。根据她的举止和他总体的运气，他相当确定这不是个好消息。他问道：“这——不管是什么——需要立即采取行动吗？“今晚能处理吗？现在？

Frowning, her hands tightening, twisting, in the duvet beneath her, she said, “No, but I think we should really discuss it, Lucius. It’s –”
她皱着眉头，双手紧绷着，扭动着，在她身下的羽绒被里，她说，“不，但我觉得我们真的应该讨论一下，卢修斯。这是——”

“And I think,” he said gently, reaching out to cup her chin in his hand, “that if it can wait, then it should. Don’t you?”
“我想，”他温柔地说，伸手托住她的下巴，“如果它能等一等，那它就应该等。不是吗？

On seeing the uncompromising set of his face, she rolled her eyes impatiently but then, allowing them to trail down, she saw the faint sign of hardness in his trousers and seemed to rethink pressing the issue. He felt the subtle nod, her chin pressing down into his palm.
看到他那毫不妥协的脸，她不耐烦地翻了个白眼，但随后，她让它们向下移动，她看到了他裤子上淡淡的坚硬迹象，似乎重新考虑了这个问题。他感觉到那微妙的点头，她的下巴压在他的手掌上。

Lucius hadn’t had anyone but his wife in his bed. He hadn’t had anyone who wasn’t family in his private bedroom. Yet having Hermione there didn’t feel incongruous. Watching her kick off her shoes, wriggle out of her knickers and relax into his bed, waiting for him, he couldn’t imagine where else she would be.
卢修斯的床上除了他的妻子，什么人都没有。他的私人卧室里没有其他非家人的人。然而，有赫敏在那儿并不觉得不协调。看着她踢掉鞋子，扭动着从短裤里爬出来，放松地躺在他的床上，等着他，他无法想象她还会在哪里。

Settling between her soft, smooth thighs, feeling her face pressed into his neck, hearing her whimpers as he eased inside of her wet heat – how could any of that, feeling as right and good as it did, not be some kind of absolution? 
坐在她柔软光滑的大腿之间，感觉到她的脸贴在他的脖子上，听到她在她湿热中缓和时的呜咽——这一切，感觉如此正确和美好，怎么可能不是一种赦免呢？

Gripping her legs, Lucius encouraged her to wrap them around his waist then entwined their fingers, pressing her hands into the mattress on either side of her head. Curls spread around her like a halo, lips parted to let soft moans escape, she kept her gaze locked with his as their hips met.
卢修斯紧紧抓住她的双腿，鼓励她把它们缠在他的腰上，然后把他们的手指缠在一起，把她的手压在她头两侧的床垫上。卷发像光环一样在她周围蔓延，嘴唇张开，让轻柔的呻吟逸出，当他们的臀部相遇时，她的目光一直紧紧地盯着他。

It was, at that point in the evening, beyond him to verbally express just how glad he was that she was there, that he wasn’t ruminating alone in a dark room as he’d originally planned. Instead, he showed her; he focused on her pleasure, her increasingly desperate moans and tight grip urging him on.
在晚上的那个时候，他无法口头表达他对她在那里有多么高兴，他没有像他最初计划的那样独自在一个黑暗的房间里沉思。相反，他向她展示了;他专注于她的快感，她越来越绝望的呻吟和紧紧的抓握催促着他。

Whatever she had to tell him could wait for morning. Yes, he was certain it wasn’t good news but knowing it wasn’t going to involve losing her made it somewhat easier for him to push it to the side just for the moment. He would face it in the light of day with her still in his bed and that would be enough.
无论她要告诉他什么，都可以等到早上。是的，他很确定这不是个好消息，但知道这不会涉及失去她，这让他暂时更容易把它推到一边。他会在阳光下面对它，她还躺在他的床上，这就足够了。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

I was listening to the song Half a Man as I edited this. It's a miracle Lucius didn't tip into melodrama.
我正在听《Half a Man》这首歌。卢修斯没有陷入情节剧真是个奇迹。

Chapter 35
章 35Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾August 8th
8月8日

When Hermione awoke the following morning, blinking blearily against the sun that had wriggled through a gap in the curtains, it took her a moment to register where she was. A large comfortable bed, crisp white sheets, a large high-ceilinged room and a warm body at her back. 
第二天早上，当赫敏醒来时，她在窗帘缝隙中蠕动的阳光下模糊地眨了眨眼，她花了一点时间才想清自己在哪里。一张舒适的大床，干净的白色床单，一个高天花板的大房间，背上有一个温暖的身体。

Lucius. 
卢修斯。

Judging by the sound of heavy, even breathing, he was still asleep. So, she’d stayed after all, despite her hesitation. Shifting carefully, pressing her elbow into the mattress to take most of her weight so as not to disturb Lucius, Hermione surveyed the room in a way that she hadn’t really taken the time to the previous night.
从沉重而均匀的呼吸声来看，他还在睡着。所以，尽管她犹豫不决，但她还是留下来了。赫敏小心翼翼地移动身体，将手肘压在床垫上，以减轻大部分重量，以免打扰到卢修斯，她用一种她昨晚没有真正花时间的方式打量着房间。

In the dim morning light, without his dishevelled, unsettled appearance to distract her, she was surprised to find that it wasn’t really anything like his study – it was all far more pale, lacking the rich browns and earthy tones that she had come to associate with him. Instead, the stone floor was an anaemic sort of grey; the furniture delicately ornate and white; the tall french window set into the wall across from her was mostly obscured by long, cream damask curtains. 
在昏暗的晨光中，没有他蓬头垢面、不安的外表来分散她的注意力，她惊讶地发现，这和他的书房一点也不像——一切都要苍白得多，没有她与他联系在一起的浓郁的棕色和泥土色调。相反，石地板是一种贫血的灰色;家具精致华丽，洁白;她对面墙上的高大法式窗户大部分被长长的奶油色锦缎窗帘遮住了。

Hermione found herself wondering how much of the room’s decor had originally been chosen by Narcissa and simply not changed after her departure. It was, perhaps, no small wonder that Lucius spent most of his time in his study. 
赫敏发现自己在想，这个房间的装饰有多少最初是纳西莎选择的，而且在她离开后根本没有改变。也许，卢修斯大部分时间都花在他的书房里，这并不是什么小的奇迹。

An arm fell across her waist, interrupting her reverie and making her flinch as it thumped over the thick duvet and her. Bringing her own hand down, she stroked a gentle line over Lucius’ forearm and quietly asked, “Are you awake?”
一只手臂搭在她的腰上，打断了她的遐想，当它重击在厚厚的羽绒被和她身上时，她畏缩了一下。她把手放下，在卢修斯的前臂上轻轻抚摸着一条线，轻声问道：“你醒了吗？

An inelegant noise between a grunt and a groan was Lucius’ response. Surprised, Hermione stifled a laugh and, shuffling, turned onto her back so that she could look at him properly. She found him frowning, eyes closed, face half pressed into his pillow, clearly annoyed by the daylight that was seeping into the room.
咕噜声和呻吟声之间不雅的声音是卢修斯的回应。赫敏惊讶地忍住了笑声，拖着脚步，转过身来，这样她就可以好好看着他了。她发现他皱着眉头，闭着眼睛，脸半贴在枕头里，显然对渗入房间的日光感到恼火。

Inching open one eye and seeing her poorly suppressed smile he grumbled, “What?” 
他微微睁开一只眼睛，看到她难以抑制的笑容，他抱怨道：“什么？

“You’re not a morning person,” she observed lightly.
“你不是一个早起的人，”她淡淡地观察着。

“Of course not,” he said, his voice unusually scratchy. “Awful time of day. Why would anything worth my time happen in the morning?” 
“当然不是，”他说，他的声音异常沙哑。“一天中可怕的时刻。为什么早上会发生任何值得我花时间的事情？

“I like it,” Hermione replied chirpily, rolling from her back onto her side so that she was fully facing Lucius. “There’s so much promise in the morning.”
“我喜欢，”赫敏轻快地回答，从她的背上滚到一边，这样她就完全面对卢修斯。“早上有很多希望。”

His response was nothing but an exasperated moan and he closed his eyes again. Ignoring him, Hermione continued, “A good night’s sleep helps, of course, and your bed is so comfortable. Mine has this lump in the mattress just at my lower back – it drives me mad .”
他的回应只不过是一声恼怒的呻吟，然后他又闭上了眼睛。赫敏无视他，继续说道，“当然，睡个好觉会有帮助，而且你的床太舒服了。我的床垫上有个肿块，就在我的下背部——这让我很生气。

She wasn’t sure why she was speaking so much and so quickly – a slight case of nerves, perhaps, at being in such a new situation. How long had it been since she’d woken up in bed with someone else, never mind him? Years. She’d forgotten how one was supposed to behave.
她不知道自己为什么说得这么多，这么快——也许，在这样一个新的情况下，她有点紧张。她有多久没有和别人在床上醒来了，更不用说他了？年。她已经忘记了一个人应该如何表现。

Lucius cracked open his eyes again, looking at her like she had two heads. “Why not just get a new one?”
卢修斯再次睁开眼睛，看着她，就像她有两个脑袋一样。“为什么不买一个新的呢？”

“Mattresses are expensive, Lucius.”
“床垫很贵，Lucius。”

“But you’re sleeping on it every night!” He seemed to be waking up more, she noticed, as his bemusement grew. 
“可是你每天晚上都睡在上面！”她注意到，随着他的困惑越来越大，他似乎醒得更多了。

“Doesn’t make it any less expensive.”
“这并没有让它更便宜。”

With a grunt, Lucius pushed himself up with his elbow and collapsed into a sitting position against his pillow, looking down at Hermione who continued to lie on her side. “I’ll buy you one,” he said.
卢修斯咕哝了一声，用手肘撑起身体，靠着枕头瘫倒成坐姿，低头看着继续侧躺着的赫敏。“我给你买一个，”他说。

“No,” she replied with an almost singsong tone, “you won’t.”
“不，”她用一种近乎歌唱的语气回答，“你不会的。

Scoffing, he rolled his eyes. “Then you’ll stay here from now on. I won’t have you living in discomfort or damaging yourself because of your own bloody pride.”
他嘲笑着翻了个白眼。“那你从现在开始就留在这里。我不会让你因为自己的骄傲而生活在不适中或伤害自己。

Hermione laughed and, rolling onto her stomach, propped herself up on her elbows so that the soft sheets slid to her lower back. She could feel her bare hip brushing against his thigh beneath the duvet, the warmth of him bleeding into her. “So, I’m not a terrible sleeping partner? I can’t be if you want me back.”
赫敏笑了起来，趴在地上，用手肘撑起自己，让柔软的床单滑到她的下背部。她能感觉到她裸露的臀部在羽绒被下抚摸着他的大腿，他的温暖渗入了她的体内。“所以，我不是一个糟糕的睡伴吗？如果你想让我回来，我就不能了。

Raising his eyebrows, Lucius shook his head and raised a hand to rub at his eyes. “Apart from your apparent abundance of energy in the morning –” He broke off to yawn and then, eyes trailing down over her bare shoulders and the faint curve of her breasts, added, “Though I’m sure that has its upsides.”
卢修斯扬起眉毛，摇了摇头，抬起一只手揉了揉他的眼睛。“除了你早上明显精力充沛之外——”他打了个哈欠，然后，眼睛从她裸露的肩膀和她乳房的微弱曲线上滑落，补充道，“虽然我确信这有它的好处。

A warm flush suffused Hermione’s cheeks but then the smile slipped from her face and she dropped her gaze. “Before you get distracted…” she began, remembering with a dip of dread in her stomach that she had originally come to his room to speak about Kingsley. “Remember last night I said –”
赫敏的脸颊上泛起了温暖的红晕，但随后笑容从她的脸上滑落，她垂下了目光。“在你分心之前......”她开始说，心里一阵恐惧，想起她最初是来他的房间谈论金斯莱的。“记得昨晚我说过——”

“I know it’s not good news,” he said, swiftly and correctly reading her sudden shift in mood.
“我知道这不是个好消息，”他说，迅速而正确地读懂了她突然的情绪变化。

Hermione’s eyes snapped up to meet his, finding them fixed on her, unblinking. “How could you possibly know that?”
赫敏猛地抬起眼睛与他对视，发现眼睛盯着她，一眨不眨。“你怎么可能知道？”

“I do believe I once told you that you’re easier to read than a book,” he said, a slightly mocking drawl to his voice. “It was written all over your face.” 
“我确实相信我曾经告诉你，你比读书更容易读，”他说，声音里带着些许嘲讽。“你脸上写满了。”

He offered her a smile but it was half-hearted and tired. “Perhaps I can guess,” he continued. “The Wizengamot has declined your request. Either my freedom will not be coming as soon as we hoped or…” He eyed her more closely and then sighed softly through his nose as he gleaned the truth from her discomfited expression. “It’s not coming at all.”
他向她微笑，但那是半心半意和疲惫的。“也许我能猜到，”他继续说。“威森加摩拒绝了你的请求。要么我的自由不会如我们所愿地到来，要么......”他更仔细地看着她，然后通过鼻子轻轻叹了口气，从她不安的表情中搜寻到真相。“它根本不会来。”

Reaching out, Hermione placed a hand on his arm nearest her, squeezing him. “I’m sorry, Lucius,” she said quietly. “I really am.”
赫敏伸出手，将一只手放在离她最近的手臂上，挤压着他。“对不起，卢修斯，”她轻声说。“我真的是。”

Lucius shifted, sighing heavily, but he didn’t draw his arm away from her touch. “Should I have expected anything else, I wonder?” he asked, sounding resigned. “Your magnanimity is, I think, exceptional."
卢修斯动了动身子，重重地叹了口气，但他没有把手臂从她的触碰上移开。“我想知道，我还能期待什么吗？” 他问道，听起来很无奈。“我认为，你的宽宏大量是非凡的。”

“The Wizengamot haven’t…they just haven’t spent the time with you like I have.”
“威森加摩还没有......他们只是没有像我一样花时间陪你。

Lucius’ smile was grim. “They’ve spent as much time with me as I think they’d ever want to,” he said. On seeing Hermione’s expectant, raised eyebrows, he added, “I was the man who filled their pockets with coins or their ears with threats. I wouldn’t be surprised if more than a few of them are still afraid, either of what I might do to them or what I could reveal about them.”
卢修斯的笑容很严肃。“他们花了我认为他们想花多少时间就花多少时间，”他说。看到赫敏期待地扬起眉毛，他补充道，“我就是那个把他们的口袋装满硬币，或者用威胁塞进他们的耳朵的人。如果他们中的一些人仍然害怕，无论是我可能会对他们做什么，还是我能透露关于他们的什么，我都不会感到惊讶。

“You could have mentioned you felt like that,” Hermione said, unable to keep some resentment from her voice. “I might have addressed it a little more directly in my letter to them.”
“你本来可以说你有那种感觉的，”赫敏说，她的声音里忍不住有些怨恨。“我本可以在给他们的信中更直接地表达这个问题。”

“They have never seen an ounce of contrition or regret from me directly, Hermione,” he said, his lips pursing. “That, I think, could be the difference.” In an undertone, he added, “Not that some of them deserve it.”
“他们从来没有直接从我身上看到过一丝悔恨或遗憾，赫敏，”他说，嘴唇抿着。“我认为，这可能就是不同之处。”他低调地补充说，“并不是说他们中的一些人活该。

Sighing, Hermione allowed her hand to slide from his arm and land with a heavy thump on the bed. “You’ve kept to your word, though,” she said. “To me . I thought that might count for something. And I vouched for you.”
赫敏叹了口气，让她的手从他的手臂上滑落，重重地砰地一声落在床上。“不过，你信守诺言，”她说。“对我来说......我想这可能有意义。我为你担保了。

“Keeping one's word isn’t actually as important as you seem to think it is in the Ministry.” He raised an eyebrow and, taking in the sullen downturn of her lips, snorted softly. “Or are you more annoyed by the fact that they didn’t unquestioningly trust your judgement?”
“信守诺言实际上并不像你在魔法部里想象的那么重要。”他扬起眉毛，看着她闷闷不乐的嘴唇，轻轻地哼了一声。“还是说，他们不毫无疑问地相信你的判断，你更生气？”

“I mean, honestly,” Hermione said, ignoring him, her tone becoming more heated, “Kingsley was being – just – ugh – how many chances does anyone actually get to help the entire wizarding world in any kind of measurable way? They’d need to actually give you some opp –”
“我是说，老实说，”赫敏无视他，她的语气变得更加激烈，“金斯莱在——只是——呃——有多少机会真的能以任何一种可衡量的方式帮助整个魔法世界？他们得给你点机会——”

“– so conceited sometimes, really, I forget that –” Lucius stopped mumbling to himself and eyed Hermione who had suddenly stopped talking to stare at him, her mouth agape. “Are you alright?”
“——有时候太自负了，真的，我忘了——”卢修斯停止了喃喃自语，盯着突然停止说话的赫敏，盯着他，张大了嘴巴。“你还好吗？”

Hermione’s eyes were wide and bright as they met his. “I know how you can prove to the Wizengamot that you’re changing – how you can help more people.”
赫敏的眼睛睁得又大又亮。“我知道你怎么能向威森加摩证明你正在改变——你怎么能帮助更多的人。”

Lucius’ head dropped towards his shoulder, his brow crumpled with tiredness. “Hermione, I really would –”
卢修斯把头垂向他的肩膀，他的眉头因疲惫而皱起。“赫敏，我真的会——”

“No, Lucius. It’s brilliant, I promise, I –” Hermione grunted and scrambled up onto her knees beside him, barely noticing the cold as her movements pushed the duvet from her body. “Kingsley’s asked me to come back to the Ministry to unpick all the pro-Pure-blood laws that no one’s looked at in generations and you can help me do it. I don’t think the Wizengamot could ask for much more evidence than that; it’ll affect everyone!”
“不，卢修斯。这太棒了，我保证，我——“赫敏咕哝着，爬到他身边跪了下来，几乎没注意到她的动作把羽绒被从她身上推开时带来的寒冷。“金斯利让我回到魔法部，解开所有几代人都没有看过的纯血统法律，你可以帮我做。我认为威森加摩不能要求比这更多的证据;它会影响每个人！

Lucius seemed to freeze, his eyes sliding over to her beaming face. “The pro-Pure-blood laws,” he finally repeated flatly, slowly.
卢修斯似乎僵住了，他的眼睛滑向她喜气洋洋的脸庞。“支持纯血统的法律，”他终于平淡而缓慢地重复道。

It was only then that Hermione seemed to truly grasp the significance of what she was suggesting and to whom she was suggesting it. He had, for so long, been her primary example of what it meant to be an old-fashioned Pure-blood in the Wizarding World; he had been raised to believe that any and all advantages were his due. 
直到那时，赫敏似乎才真正领会到她所建议的意义，以及她向谁建议。长期以来，他一直是她在魔法世界中成为老式纯血统意味着什么的主要例子;他从小就相信，任何和所有的好处都是他应得的。

“Yes…” she said, shifting on her knees and arranging the sheets around her thighs, feeling suddenly exposed. “Of course, I’m sure you must know about them – a collection of… outdated legislation that makes it easier for Pure-blood witches and wizards to retain their hegemony.” 
“是的......”她说着，跪在地上，把床单整理在大腿上，感觉突然暴露了出来。“当然，我相信你一定知道他们——一系列......过时的立法让纯血统的女巫和巫师更容易保持他们的霸权。

Lucius raised his eyebrows but said nothing and so Hermione pushed on despite an increasing trepidation. “Kingsley wants things to be fairer going forward – more balanced – he thinks re-working these laws or even…even undoing some of them could help that.”
卢修斯扬起眉毛，但什么也没说，所以赫敏尽管越来越害怕，还是继续前进。“金斯利希望事情向前发展得更公平——更平衡——他认为重新制定这些法律，甚至......即使撤销其中一些也会有所帮助。

Lucius was quiet for a moment, his jaw sliding back and forth contemplatively. “And you’d like me to help you do that?” he finally asked, an undercurrent of incredulity to his voice. “Me?”
卢修斯沉默了一会儿，他的下巴沉思地来回滑动。“你希望我帮你做那件事吗？”他终于问道，他的声音里暗藏着一股难以置信。“我？”

In the face of Lucius’ lack of enthusiasm for her grand, albeit cobbled-together plan, Hermione found herself slipping towards defensiveness, her hands curling into fists on her thighs. 
面对卢修斯对她那宏伟的、尽管是拼凑起来的计划缺乏热情，赫敏发现自己正在走向防御，她的双手在大腿上蜷缩成拳头。

“Why not?” she demanded. “Why shouldn’t I ask you?”
“为什么不呢？”“我为什么不问你呢？”

“I am one of the terrible Pure-bloods who benefits from these laws.”
“我是那些从这些法律中受益的可怕的纯血统之一。”

Hermione stopped and contemplated his relaxed posture; she thought she spied a falseness in it, a tension. “Surely you can’t really think that you deserve all the advantages that come with these laws just because you’re a Pure-blood? After everything, Lucius, do you really think that?”
赫敏停下脚步，思考着他放松的姿势;她觉得她从中窥探到了一个虚假，一种紧张。“你肯定不能真的因为你是纯血统就认为你值得这些法律带来的所有好处吗？毕竟，卢修斯，你真的这么认为吗？

He was slow to respond, his words careful. “I don’t think it’s a matter of whether or not I deserve these advantages – I already have them. I think I’d be a fool to give them up. Anyone would be.”
他反应迟缓，说话小心翼翼。“我不认为这是我是否值得这些优势的问题——我已经拥有它们了。我想放弃他们就是个傻瓜。任何人都会。

Nostrils flaring, Hermione took a deep breath, her chest rising as she searched for calm. “Do you even know what they involve?”
赫敏张开了鼻孔，深吸了一口气，她的胸膛在寻找平静时起伏。“你知道他们涉及什么吗？”

There was a slightly knowing upturn to the corner of Lucius’ mouth as he took in her clenched fists and squared shoulders. “Do you?” 
卢修斯的嘴角微微上扬，他看着她紧握的拳头和方正的肩膀。“是吗？”

“That means no, then,” Hermione said, adopting a superior tilt to her head so that her nose and chin were pointing upwards.
“那意味着不，那么，”赫敏说，她把头歪得高一点，让鼻子和下巴都朝上。

“Oh, and you do?" he asked acidly, the knowing upturn of his lips curling, curdling, into something less pleasant. “Had the time to read up on them all already, have you?”
“哦，你愿意吗？”他酸溜溜地问道，他知道的嘴唇卷曲、凝结，变得不那么令人愉快。“你有时间把它们都读一遍了，对吧？”

Flustered, heat rising to her cheeks, Hermione pushed on. “If you don’t even know exactly how you’re benefiting, how can you be so sure you don’t want to help me?”
赫敏慌乱，热气升到她的脸颊上，继续前进。“如果你连好处都不知道自己到底是怎么受益的，你怎么能这么确定你不想帮助我呢？”

Sighing, Lucius crossed his arms over his chest, settling back into his pillow. “I just need to know that I am benefitting,” he said, with the tone of a man who was explaining a perfectly simple concept and didn’t understand why he had to.
卢修斯叹了口气，双臂交叉在胸前，坐回了枕头里。“我只需要知道我正在受益，”他说，语气就像一个正在解释一个非常简单的概念的人，他不明白为什么他必须这样做。

“At the likely disadvantage of others,” Hermione stressed, aghast.
“可能会对别人不利，”赫敏惊恐地强调。

“That tends to be how these things work,” he muttered, rolling his eyes. Looking back at her face, Lucius took in her wide gaze and the mildly disgusted scrunch in her nose. It’d been a while since he’d seen that. 
“这些事情往往就是这样运作的，”他咕哝着，翻了个白眼。卢修斯回头看着她的脸，看到了她睁大的目光和她鼻子里略带厌恶的皱褶。他已经有一段时间没有看到了。

“Hermione, dear,” he said, an almost sympathetic quality to his tone, “at what point in the last few months have I ever given you the impression that this is a heart that bleeds?”
“赫敏，亲爱的，”他说，语气中带着一种近乎同情的意味，“在过去的几个月里，我什么时候给你留下过这样的印象，那就是一颗流血的心？

“Well, it’s not like it's made of stone. It's not like you can’t care. You care about –”
“嗯，它不像是石头做的。这并不是说你不在乎。你在乎——”

“Those who matter to me,” he finished for her, making her close her mouth with a snap of her teeth. He loved and cared discriminately – she knew that. Perhaps she had forgotten it in becoming one of those people that mattered. 
“那些对我重要的人，”他替她说完，让她咬牙切齿地闭上嘴巴。他爱和关心——她知道这一点。也许她在成为那些重要的人之一时忘记了这一点。

“You could care about the rest of the Wizarding World just a little bit,” she said, lowering her voice to soften the reproachful tone. “It wouldn’t kill you.”
“你可以稍微关心一下魔法世界的其他地方，”她说，压低了声音以缓和责备的语气。“它不会杀了你。”

A short chuckle from Lucius drew her gaze up. “Why take the risk at my age?” he asked, raising his eyebrows. 
卢修斯短促的笑声吸引了她的目光。“为什么要在我这个年纪冒险呢？”

“You’re not that old.”
“你没那么老。”

“Old enough to know myself. Besides, I get the impression that you care about the rest of the Wizarding World quite enough for both of us.” Lucius allowed silence to fall between them and eyed her carefully. She could see a rueful smile playing about his lips that made her press her tongue to the roof of her mouth, frustrated. 
“年纪大到可以了解我自己。此外，我有一种感觉，你对魔法世界的其他部分的关心对我们俩来说都足够了。卢修斯让他们之间陷入沉默，小心翼翼地看着她。她可以看到他的嘴唇上浮现出一个悲哀的笑容，这让她沮丧地将舌头贴在嘴巴上颚。

“Rethinking your grand collaboration?” he finally asked.
“重新考虑你们的盛大合作？”

“No,” she said loftily. “I still think it’s a good idea.”
“不，”她高傲地说。“我仍然认为这是个好主意。”

Sighing, Lucius uncrossed his arms and dropped his head back against the pillow, his eyes closing. “Hermione,” he said to the ceiling, “I will not… steal the advantages of my peers – their birth rights. That’s not how being a Pure-blood – a Slytherin – works. We are loyal to our own.”
卢修斯叹了口气，解开了双臂，把头靠在枕头上，闭上了眼睛。“赫敏，”他对着天花板说，“我不会......窃取我的同龄人的优势——他们与生俱来的权利。这不是成为纯血统——斯莱特林——的运作方式。我们忠于我们自己的人。

“You didn’t consider their blood status quite so sacrosanct when you were handing over their names to the Ministry,” Hermione said, the words tumbling out in a rush. She pressed her lips together as soon as she’d finished speaking to stop anything else spilling out – there she went again, saying the ugly thing. 
“当你把他们的名字交给魔法部的时候，你没觉得他们的血统地位如此神圣不可侵犯，”赫敏说，这些话匆匆忙忙地翻滚而出。她一说完就紧抿着嘴唇，阻止任何其他东西溢出来——她又来了，说了那句难听的话。

Ever so slowly, Lucius raised his head from the pillow, his eyes opening and his brows arched. “Not all Pure-bloods served the Dark Lord,” he replied. Then, eyes narrowing, he added, “Might I remind you of your beloved Weasleys – you would take the few boons they have?”
Lucius慢慢地从枕头上抬起头，睁开了眼睛，眉头弯了起来。“不是所有的纯血统都为黑魔王服务，”他回答道。然后，他眯起眼睛，补充道，“我能让你想起你心爱的韦斯莱一家吗——你会接受他们仅有的几点恩惠吗？

“The Weasleys wouldn’t want them, even if they did know what they were.” Hermione was almost triumphant in pointing that out but it simply made Lucius bark out a short, cold laugh.
“韦斯莱一家不会想要他们，即使他们真的知道他们是什么。”赫敏几乎得意洋洋地指出了这一点，但这只是让卢修斯发出了一声短促而冰冷的笑声。

“Well, they’ve never known what’s good for them – just look at them.” 
“嗯，他们从来不知道什么对他们有好处——看看他们就知道了。”

At the sight of the flush rising up Hermione’s neck and the glint in her eyes, Lucius sat up straighter, his hand coming to lie flat on the duvet between them, fingers spread. “If I were to have involvement in this, I doubt I would ever be embraced in Pure-blood circles again. Even Draco would –”
看到赫敏的脖子上泛起的红晕和她眼中的光芒，卢修斯坐直了身子，他的手平躺在他们之间的羽绒被上，手指张开。“如果我参与其中，我怀疑我是否会再次被纯血圈所接受。就连德拉科也会——”

“You’re not welcome in them anymore anyway,” Hermione pointed out, shaking her head so that her shorter curls bounced against her pink cheeks. “You’re protecting them, safeguarding primacies they might not even know they have, and they don’t even know or care that you're doing it. They’re not trying to help you, Lucius, or get you free – they’re not interested. ”
“反正你现在已经不受欢迎了，”赫敏指出，摇了摇头，让她较短的卷发在她粉红色的脸颊上弹跳。“你在保护他们，保护他们甚至可能不知道自己拥有的首要地位，他们甚至不知道或不关心你在这样做。他们不是想帮助你，Lucius，也不是想让你自由——他们不感兴趣。”

“The freedom you’re talking about is freedom to live in ignominy,” he ground out, his patience wearing thin out of a combination of Hermione’s exhausting persistence and the threads of truth he could see in what she was saying. 
“你说的自由就是生活在耻辱中的自由，”他停下脚步，赫敏疲惫不堪的坚持和他从她所说的话中能看到的真理的结合，他的耐心逐渐消磨殆尽。

Half-turning, Lucius gripped the duvet and threw it back, intending to rise. Before he could, Hermione launched forward from her kneel and pulled him back. Scrambling onto him, she forced him back onto his pillow where he landed with an ‘ oomph’ .
卢修斯半转身，抓住羽绒被，把它扔回去，打算站起来。在他来得及之前，赫敏从她的跪下跳了起来，把他拉了回来。她爬到他身上，强迫他回到枕头上，在那里他以“哀嚎”的一声着陆。

The incredulity in Lucius’ expression as he looked up at her would have made Hermione laugh aloud in any other situation but she was far too agitated, too desperate to convince him, to see the humour. Sitting atop him in a heavy straddle, she pressed her hands into his chest and fixed him with a determined look.
卢修斯抬头看着她时，他那难以置信的表情在其他任何情况下都会让赫敏大笑起来，但她太激动了，太绝望了，无法说服他，看不到其中的幽默。她沉重地跨坐在他身上，双手按在他的胸前，用坚定的眼神注视着他。

 A part of her was aware that it was silly – practically a game – because, lean as Lucius was, feeling him beneath her, seeing her small hands planted on his chest, she was reminded that he was more than strong enough to simply throw her off. 
她的一部分意识到这很愚蠢——几乎是一场游戏——因为，像卢修斯一样瘦弱，感觉到他在她下面，看到她的小手放在他的胸前，她想起了他足够强大，可以简单地把她甩开。

But he didn’t. Surely she had to take some encouragement from that. 
但他没有。当然，她必须从中得到一些鼓励。

“Having you involved in this,” she said to him, pressing her palms into him for emphasis, “having you work with me, it just makes it all look so much better, don’t you see?” 
“让你参与这件事，”她对他说，用手掌压在他身上以示强调，“让你和我一起工作，只会让一切看起来好多了，你没看到吗？

“To who , exactly?” he asked, his eyes flicking down to her hands briefly, a disgruntled grimace marring his face.
“到底是对谁说的？”他问道，他的眼睛短暂地落在她的手上，脸上露出不满的表情。

“Everyone!” Hermione cried, leaning back and raising her arms wide. “A Pure-blood and a Muggleborn working on these things together, coming to an agreement, it’d be…wonderful! Don’t you think?”
“大家！”赫敏喊道，向后靠着，张开双臂。“一个纯血统和一个麻瓜出身的人一起做这些事情，达成协议，那就是......美妙！你不觉得吗？

One drawn-out, unamused blink was his response and Hermione sighed, dropping her arms. 
他的回答是拖延的、不高兴的眨眼，赫敏叹了口气，放下了手臂。

“Any one blood status could be accused of an inherent bias but with two of us there’s balance, Lucius. Half-bloods and Muggleborns can be certain that someone is working in their interests and Pure-bloods ought to be satisfied that they’re not simply being…brought to heel , I suppose.”
“任何一种血统都可能被指责为固有的偏见，但我们两个人就有平衡，卢修斯。混血儿和麻瓜出身的人可以确定有人在为他们的利益工作，而纯血统的人应该确信他们不仅仅是......我猜是被逼到脚下了。

“No,” said Lucius with a heart-sinking amount of sarcasm, “they’re much more likely to feel like they’re being crushed under one.”
“不，”卢修斯带着令人心碎的讽刺说，“他们更有可能觉得自己被压垮了。

Hermione brought her hands to his chest again, more gently this time. Brows bowed pleadingly, she said, “Lucius…look, I’m going to be working on this project regardless of whether or not you agree to work with me. I want to do it.” 
赫敏再次将手放在他的胸前，这次更温柔。眉毛恳求地低下头，她说：“卢修斯......听着，无论你是否同意与我合作，我都会参与这个项目。我想这样做。

She paused to let that sink in, to make him understand that his non-involvement wouldn’t stop the laws being changed anyway, before adding, “This is your chance to do something constructive and have a say.”
她停顿了一下，让他明白，无论如何，他的不参与并不能阻止法律的改变，然后补充道，“这是你做一些建设性的事情并有发言权的机会。

Lucius sniffed, his expression sour. “Constructive?” he asked, doubtfully. “It sounds to me like you want a passive figurehead to appease the Pure-bloods – someone who’ll play the puppet out of desperation for a reward.”
卢修斯吸了吸鼻子，他的表情酸涩。“建设性吗？”“在我看来，你想要一个被动的傀儡来安抚纯血统的人——一个会出于绝望而扮演傀儡以获得奖励的人。”

Alarmed, Hermione pressed her hips down on him, lowering her body so that her face came closer to his. “It’s not like that –”
赫敏惊慌失措，将臀部压在他身上，降低身体，让自己的脸更靠近他的脸。“不是那样的——”

Lucius’ hands came to her hips and his eyes were cold, sharp, as they studied her face. She felt like he was unpicking the very threads of her. “Our world, our history, is complicated with intricacies you can’t fully comprehend just by reading about them. There are centuries of conventions, dynamics and expectations that can’t simply be transformed overnight. You’d need to be careful –”
卢修斯的手伸到她的臀部，他的眼睛冰冷而锐利，打量着她的脸。她觉得他正在解开她的丝线。“我们的世界，我们的历史，错综复杂，你无法仅通过阅读它们来完全理解。几个世纪以来，人们的惯例、动态和期望不可能在一夜之间得到改变。你得小心——”

“I know that!” Hermione brought her hands up to either side of his head, pressing them into the pillow and squeezing the soft feathers within. “I’m aware I don’t know everything about our world, okay? That’s part of why I think this – us – could be good . Nothing about it is simple but it’s necessary. You know as well as I do that we’re not going to get any significant or lasting change if we just let things carry on as they were.”
“我知道！”赫敏把手举到他头的两侧，把它们压进枕头里，挤压里面柔软的羽毛。“我知道我并不了解我们这个世界的一切，好吗？这就是为什么我认为这个 - 我们 - 可能会很好。它没有什么是简单的，但它是必要的。你和我一样都知道，如果我们让事情继续下去，我们将不会得到任何重大或持久的改变。

In her impassioned speech, Hermione hadn’t noticed how close their faces had become. It was only as she stopped to take a breath that she realised her lips were mere inches from his, their warm breath mingling in the small space left between them, her breasts were brushing against his chest, her knees squeezing his waist. 
在她慷慨激昂的演讲中，赫敏没有注意到他们的脸变得多么亲密。当她停下来喘口气时，她才意识到她的嘴唇离他的嘴唇只有几英寸，温暖的呼吸混合在他们之间留下的狭小空间里，她的乳房摩擦着他的胸膛，她的膝盖挤压着他的腰。

Suddenly self-conscious, she shifted and in her movement she felt that he’d become hard beneath her. His grip on her hips tightened, becoming almost painful. “Hermione,” he said, warning in his slightly hoarse voice. 
突然间，她意识到自己动了起来，在她的动作中，她感觉到他在她下面变得坚硬了。他紧紧抓住她的臀部，几乎变得疼痛。“赫敏，”他说，用他略带沙哑的声音警告道。

Swallowing, tongue darting out to wet her lips, Hermione pressed her knees into the mattress on either side of him and lifted her hips as much as his grip would allow. Eyes on his, she experimentally rubbed her slit gently against the hardness lying against his lower stomach, prompting a groan from him. Breathing heavily, a feeling of need swirling between her bellybutton and her increasingly wet core, she did it again, rocking her hips and allowing a small whine to escape from between her parted lips. 
赫敏吞咽着，舌头伸出来打湿了她的嘴唇，她把膝盖压在他两侧的床垫上，在他的抓握允许的范围内尽可能地抬起她的臀部。她盯着他，实验性地用她的缝隙轻轻地摩擦着他下腹部的坚硬，让他发出了呻吟。她沉重地呼吸，一种需要的感觉在她的肚脐和越来越湿润的核心之间盘旋，她又做了一次，摇晃着她的臀部，让她分开的嘴唇之间发出一声小小的呜呜声。

Lucius’ hips jerked upwards beneath her and she felt one of his hands slide to her lower back while the other came up to cradle the back of her neck. “Hermione,” he said again, his eyes darting down to where their bodies were just about touching. 
卢修斯的臀部在她身下猛地向上翘起，她感觉到他的一只手滑到她的下背部，而另一只手则上来抱住她的后颈。“赫敏，”他又说了一遍，他的眼睛瞪向他们身体即将接触的地方。

When she didn’t respond he suddenly tightened his grip on her, his arm wrapping around her lower back so that she couldn’t rub against him anymore. Holding her still, his other hand at the back of her neck slid up and tangled itself into her hair. Hermione yelped, surprised, as Lucius used his hold on her hair to abruptly pull her head down beside his so that he could speak in her ear.
当她没有回应时，他突然紧紧抓住她，他的手臂搂住她的下背部，这样她就不能再摩擦他了。他抱着她一动不动，另一只手在她的脖子后面滑了起来，缠住了她的头发。赫敏惊讶地叫了起来，因为卢修斯抓住了她的头发，突然把她的头拉到他身边，这样他就可以在她耳边说话了。

“You’re not playing fair doing that, Hermione,” he said, his voice gravely and his breath hot in the shell of her ear. 
“你这样做不公平，赫敏，”他说，他的声音很严肃，他的呼吸在她的耳壳里滚烫。

Grunting, her face pressed uncomfortably into his pillow, Hermione wriggled uselessly. She felt ludicrous, her bottom half exposed to the chill as Lucius kept her pressed to him. “You’re not playing fair doing this ,” she insisted, her voice muffled by his pillow.
赫敏咕哝着，脸不舒服地贴在他的枕头上，无用地扭动着。她觉得很可笑，她的下半身暴露在寒冷中，因为卢修斯一直把她压在他身上。“你这样做不公平，”她坚持道，她的声音被他的枕头掩盖了。

“I want your forgiveness,” he said, the words making her cease her struggling. “I want to earn it, I told you that. But you understand what you’re asking? The significance of it? I’ve spent my whole life trying to make sure Pure-bloods aren’t sidelined and you would have me…pick at the foundations.”
“我想要你的原谅，”他说，这些话让她停止了挣扎。“我想赚到它，我告诉过你。但你明白你在问什么吗？它的意义是什么？我一生都在努力确保纯血统不会被边缘化，你会让我......挑根基。

Turning her head to take a breath and get more comfortable in his tight hold, Hermione spoke, her lips close to his ear, “You’ve never been sidelined, Lucius. You know that. And what has it done for you? What did the ‘Pure-blood cause’ get you?”
赫敏转过头来深吸一口气，在他的紧紧抱抱中变得更舒服，她开口了，她的嘴唇贴近他的耳朵，“你从来没有被边缘化过，卢修斯。你知道的。它对您有什么帮助？'纯血事业'给你带来了什么？

“My home, my wealth, influence, a family –”
“我的家，我的财富，影响力，一个家庭——”

“Your commitment to it nearly lost you them, too.”
“你对它的承诺也差点让你失去他们。”

“The Dark Lord –”
“黑魔王——”

“Used it against you. And anyone like him could use it again. We’re here right now as equals, why should we have laws that suggest we aren’t?” Hermione’s eyes fluttered closed and she pressed her forehead against the side of his face. “If we keep them as they are, what lessons have we really learned?”
“用它来对付你。任何像他这样的人都可以再次使用它。我们现在在这里是平等的，为什么我们应该有法律表明我们不是呢？赫敏颤抖着闭上了眼睛，她把额头贴在他的脸侧。“如果我们保持原样，我们真正吸取了什么教训？”

Lucius’ hold on Hermione’s hair fractionally loosened but she held her position, even as he turned his face fractionally towards her. “You’re never going to make everyone happy with this – with these laws –” he said, his voice almost a whisper. “Even if I do help you. Maybe most especially if I do. We’ll either go too far or not far enough – we’re never going to get it right.”
卢修斯抓着赫敏头发的手稍微松动了一点，但她还是保持着自己的姿势，即使他把脸稍微转向她。“你永远不可能让每个人都对这个——这些法律——感到满意，”他说，他的声音几乎是耳语。“就算我帮你也帮了。也许尤其是如果我这样做了。我们要么走得太远，要么走得不够远——我们永远不会做对。

“It’s not about making everyone happy,” she said. “It’s about making things right.” 
“这不是为了让每个人都开心，”她说。“这是关于让事情变得正确。”

He swallowed, his thumb stroking metronomic swipes across the back of her neck. “You’ll need to be open to compromise.”
他咽了口口水，拇指在她的后颈上划过。“你需要对妥协持开放态度。”

An incredulous little laugh bubbled up in Hermione’s chest, making her tremble against him. Being told to be open to compromise by Lucius Malfoy felt so incredibly rich. “So will you .”
赫敏的胸口冒出一阵难以置信的小笑声，让她在他身上颤抖起来。被卢修斯·马尔福告诉他要愿意妥协，感觉真是太丰富了。“你也会的。”

With a sharp exhale that sounded somewhere between a laugh and a groan, Lucius suddenly loosened his hold on Hermione’s lower back, lowering his hand to her backside. His fingers were gentle, stroking before they pressed down into her flesh, sliding down to her upper thighs to spread her open. 
随着一声介于笑声和呻吟声之间的尖锐呼气，卢修斯突然松开了对赫敏下背部的抓握，将手放到她的后背上。他的手指很温柔，抚摸着，然后向下压入她的肉体，滑到她的大腿上部，让她张开。

As the hand still in her hair scrunched in her curls, threading them through his fingers, she felt the hot, blunt head of his cock nudging at the now-tacky wetness of her entrance. With a shaky exhale of understanding, Hermione used her hands to push herself up and loom over him. He relinquished her curls so that they fell around their faces and between the golden brown curtains she held his gaze as she slowly sank onto him. 
当那只手还在她的头发上揉搓着她的卷发，穿过他的手指时，她感觉到他那又热又钝的阴茎头在她入口处现在已经发粘的湿漉漉的上轻推着。赫敏理解地颤抖地呼出一口气，用双手把自己撑起来，在他身上若隐若现。他松开了她的卷发，让它们垂在脸上，在金棕色的窗帘之间，她慢慢地沉到他身上，凝视着他。

Lucius lifted his hips to close the little remaining space between them, pushing a soft moan from somewhere deep in Hermione’s chest. They didn’t speak – they didn’t need to. In Lucius’ firm grip, his rough but measured thrusts, his careful circling of her clit with his thumb, Hermione could feel his annoyance and his affection; his resentment of the changes she wanted to set in motion and his gratitude that she wanted to pull him along with her. 
卢修斯抬起臀部，拉近他们之间仅存的一点空间，从赫敏胸口深处发出一声轻柔的呻吟。他们没有说话——他们不需要说话。在卢修斯牢牢的抓握中，他粗暴但有节制的抽插，他用拇指小心翼翼地在她的阴蒂上转圈，赫敏能感受到他的烦恼和他的爱意;他对她想要引发的改变的怨恨，以及他对她想拉着他一起走的感激。

In return, she put all of her energy into rocking against him, meeting his thrusts and kissing the sharp jut of his cheekbones, his brow furrowed with focus, his lips parted to inhale cool air and exhale heated groans. She used it to tell him that she wanted him, appreciated him, that though she understood his reticence, she wouldn’t stop pulling him. 
作为回报，她把所有的精力都投入到对着他摇晃上，迎接他的，亲吻他尖锐的颧骨，他专注地皱起眉头，他的嘴唇张开，吸入凉爽的空气，呼出炽热的呻吟。她用它来告诉他，她想要他，欣赏他，虽然她理解他的沉默，但她不会停止拉他。

Capturing his lips with a kiss, Hermione moaned her release into Lucius’ mouth. “Impossible witch,” he groaned as she broke away and pressed her forehead against his. Her laugh was breathy, a mere puff of air in his face, and he caught her lower lip between his teeth, grunting as he followed her over the edge, his hold on her impossibly tight.  
赫敏用一个吻抓住了他的嘴唇，呻吟着把她放进了卢修斯的嘴里。“不可能的女巫，”他呻吟着，她挣脱了出来，把她的额头贴在他的额头上。她的笑声喘不过气来，只是一口气扑在他的脸上，他用牙齿夹住她的下唇，咕哝着跟着她越过边缘，他紧得不可思议地紧紧地抓住了她。

With a feeling of utmost contentment, Hermione lowered herself back onto Lucius’ chest and burrowed her head into the crook of his neck. Wrapping his arms around her back, he pressed his cheek into the top of her head and sighed through his nose. 
赫敏带着极度满足的感觉，把自己放回卢修斯的胸前，把头钻进他的脖子弯里。他搂着她的背，把脸颊贴在她的头顶上，用鼻子叹了口气。

“If I get my freedom from this,” he said quietly, “I’ll be re-entering a very different world.”
“如果我从中解脱出来，”他轻声说，“我将重新进入一个非常不同的世界。

“A better one.”
“一个更好的。”

“We’ll see.”
“我们拭目以待。”

“I'll go and speak to Kingsley later today,” Hermione said, stifling a yawn and burrowing her head further into him. “Arrange it with him.”
“我今天晚些时候去和金斯莱谈谈，”赫敏说，忍住打了个哈欠，把头进一步探进了他。“跟他安排。”

Tutting, Lucius nudged the top of her head with his jaw. “Just once, Hermione, could you go to him and get assurances before you make promises? Your negotiating style is chaotic at best.”
啧啧，卢修斯用他的下巴轻推了一下她的头顶。“就一次，赫敏，你能不能先去找他，在你做出承诺之前得到保证？你的谈判风格充其量是混乱的。

“He’ll say yes.”
“他会说是的。”

There was a pause in which Hermione counted the steady beats of Lucius’ heart as he considered her words. “You seem very certain about that,” he finally said.
赫敏停顿了一下，数着卢修斯心跳的平稳跳动，思考着她的话。“你似乎很确定，”他终于说。

“Kingsley is adamant that I come back to the Ministry and very keen that I be the one to work on this project. He got quite pushy about it last night. I think that's a strong basis from which to make one little request, don't you? Besides, he'll see the advantages as I have."
“金斯利坚持让我回到魔法部，并且非常希望我成为参与这个项目的人。昨晚他对此变得相当咄咄逼人。我认为这是提出一个小要求的坚实基础，不是吗？此外，他会像我一样看到好处。

Rather than sound comforted, Lucius sounded almost suspicious as he asked, “Why is he adamant?” 
卢修斯听起来非但没有得到安慰，反而听起来几乎是怀疑，他问道：“他为什么坚持？

Wriggling out of his hold, Hermione sat up again and looked down at him. Seeing her raised eyebrows, he held up his hands. 
赫敏从他的怀抱中挣脱出来，再次坐起身来，低头看着他。看到她扬起的眉毛，他举起了双手。

“I'm sure you're a wonderful, efficient, not at all difficult employee,” he said with false deference, “but the Ministry has a lot of those. It's unusual for a Minister to be focused on an individual. Particularly one that’s made their lack of interest clear. Even more particularly one that’s tied themselves to a department like Magical Creatures.”
“我敢肯定你是个了不起的、高效的、一点也不难缠的员工，”他假装恭敬地说，“但魔法部有很多这样的人。部长专注于个人是不寻常的。尤其是一个让他们明显缺乏兴趣的比赛。更具体地说，一个把自己绑在像 Magical Creatures 这样的部门里的人。

“And what’s wrong with Magical Creatures?”
“那么神奇生物怎么了？”

“Hardly a superstar department,” Lucius explained, brow creased as he pondered Kingsley’s possible motivations. “Underfunded, undersung, overworked; rare that it produces a name of note before it burns them out.”
“算不上超级明星部门，”卢修斯解释道，他皱起了眉头，思考着金斯莱可能的动机。“资金不足、知名度低、工作过度;在烧毁它们之前，它会产生一个值得注意的名字，这种情况很少见。

Hermione pushed her lower lip out in something close to a pout but she didn’t argue – she’d seen more than a few of her colleagues beg for transfers after one Imp infestation too many. It had been a difficult, challenging department and it had only been her passionate vision for house elves that had helped her last longer than most.
赫敏把下嘴唇伸出来，几乎要噘着嘴了，但她没有争论——她见过不少同事在一次小鬼侵扰太多之后乞求调职。这是一个艰难、充满挑战的部门，只有她对家养小精灵的热情愿景帮助她比大多数人坚持得更久。

“I don't…” She shrugged, shaking her head. “He's never really explained fully . But he doesn’t want me back in Magical Creatures anyway; he wants me to join Magical Law Enforcement if – when – I go back.”
“我不......”她耸耸肩，摇了摇头。“他从来没有真正完全解释过。但无论如何，他都不想让我回到 Magical Creatures 中;他希望我加入魔法执法队，如果——什么时候——我回去。

“Ah,” Lucius said, his brow flattening as though something in what she’d had cleared up much of his confusion. “Much more centre stage.” 
“啊，”卢修斯说，他的眉头紧锁着，仿佛她刚才的什么东西已经消除了他的大部分困惑。“更中心。”

It was Hermione’s turn to frown. “What does that mean?”
轮到赫敏皱眉了。“这是什么意思？”

“It means fine,” Lucius said, his voice light. “Use your leverage. If you can convince our venerated Minister then I will, of course, help you. And hinder you where necessary.”
“意思是很好，”卢修斯说，他的声音很轻。“利用你的杠杆。如果您能说服我们尊敬的部长，那么我当然会帮助您。并在必要时阻碍你。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

As much as Lucius cares for Hermione, I feel like it's a real big step for him to help her with this. Thanks for continuing to read everyone! Based on my current plan we're about 10 chapters from the end and I will be distraught when I don't have this story any more.
尽管卢修斯很关心赫敏，但我觉得他帮助她解决这个问题真的是一大步。感谢大家继续阅读！根据我目前的计划，我们距离结尾大约有 10 章，当我不再有这个故事时，我会心烦意乱。

Chapter 36
第三十六章Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾August 8th
8月8日

 

“Hello, Evan. I’m here to see Kingsley.”
“你好，Evan。我是来看金斯利的。

It was early afternoon by the time Hermione got to the Ministry of Magic, thanks to Lucius. Not only was he not a morning person, he made it very hard for anyone else to be either. Every time she’d tried to rise, he’d pulled her back and she’d started to get an unwanted insight into where some of Draco’s spoiled nature might have come from. 
多亏了卢修斯，赫敏到达魔法部时已经是下午早些时候了。他不仅不是一个早起的人，而且他让其他人也很难成为。每次她试图站起来时，他都会把她拉回来，她开始不必要地了解德拉科被宠坏的本性可能来自哪里。

To get to Kingsley without an appointment, Hermione knew that her best possible chance was to arrive at his office early, before the day had had a chance to get on top of him. And so, as she stood in front of his receptionist on the wrong side of lunch, she pretended she didn’t know that. 
要想不预约就去金斯莱，赫敏知道她最好的机会是早点到达他的办公室，在那天还没机会赶上他之前。所以，当她站在他的接待员面前吃午饭时，她假装不知道这一点。

“Do you have an appointment,” the receptionist asked, glancing up briefly from his writing, “Miss Granger?”
“你有个约会吗，”接待员问道，从他的文字中短暂地抬起头来，“格兰杰小姐？

“Not for…right now , no, but –”
“不是为了......现在，不，但是——”

“I’m afraid the Minister is quite busy,” Evan said, not sparing her another look as he dipped his quill in his inkwell. “I can book you an appointment for a later date, if you like?”
『恐怕部长很忙，』Evan说，一边把羽毛笔蘸进墨水瓶里，还不放过她一眼。“如果你愿意，我可以帮你预约晚些时候的约会吗？”

“I have an appointment later in the week; Kingsley said he’d arrange it. Can’t we just move it forward?”
“我本周晚些时候有个约会;金斯利说他会安排的。我们不能把它向前推进吗？

With a quiet sigh through his nose, Evan set his quill down, clasped his hands and looked up at Hermione properly. His face was placid, pleasant, like he was entirely accustomed to being a brick wall for his Minister for Magic and had never once crumbled. 
Evan从鼻子里轻轻地叹了口气，放下了他的羽毛笔，紧握着双手，适当地抬头看着赫敏。他的脸色平静、和蔼可亲，就像他完全习惯了成为魔法部长的砖墙，而且从来没有倒塌过。

“Miss Granger, appointments are made for a reason; they don’t just move because it’s convenient to one party.”
“格兰杰小姐，预约是有原因的;他们搬家不仅仅是因为对一方方便。

“It’s not a matter of convenience,” Hermione said. “It’s a matter of urgency.”
“这不是一个方便的问题，”赫敏说。“这是一个紧急问题。”

“What is the urgent matter?”
“有什么紧急的事情？”

“It’s private.”
“这是私人的。”

“It’s private and urgent? Ah, well, that is convenient.”
“这是私人的和紧急的？啊，嗯，那很方便。

Hermione’s mouth fell open. She had never tried to get past Evan before, had never gotten on the wrong side of him, and now she was beginning to see why in some corners of the Ministry he was quietly referred to as ‘The Sphinx’. 
赫敏张大了嘴巴。她以前从未试图越过Evan，也从未站在他的一边，现在她开始明白为什么在魔法部的某些角落里，他被悄悄地称为“狮身人面像”。

“Well, fine,” Hermione said, trying her best to remain affable though she'd never done particularly well with that. “When does Kingsley have me booked in for an appointment?”
“嗯，好吧，”赫敏说，尽力保持和蔼可亲，尽管她从来没有在这方面做得特别好。“Kingsley 什么时候帮我预约？”

With a long, hard look at Hermione, Evan clucked his tongue and pulled a roll of parchment towards himself. Unfurling it, he disappeared from view. “Next Thursday,” he said from behind the parchment. Rolling it back up, he placed it carefully back on the desk and folded his hands over it protectively. “Ten in the morning.”
Evan狠狠地瞪了赫敏一眼，咯咯地吐了吐舌头，把一卷羊皮纸拉向自己。展开它，他就消失在了视线中。“下周四，”他从羊皮纸后面说。他把它卷起来，小心翼翼地把它放回桌子上，双手合十保护性地放在上面。“早上十点。”

“ Next Thursday? I was expecting –” Evan raised his eyebrows and tilted his head in a way that asked Hermione if she dared to have a problem with his meticulously organised calendar. “I just – isn’t there anything sooner?”
“下周四？我期待着——“Evan扬起眉毛，歪着头，问赫敏她是否敢对他精心安排的日历提出问题。“我只是——不是更早的时候吗？”

Evan nudged the roll of parchment away with the tips of his fingers. “He’s fully booked.”
Evan用指尖推开了羊皮纸卷。“他已经订满了。”

Glancing over Evan’s head, Hermione glared at the external wall of Kingsley’s office like she might be able to see through the panelled wood. “Is he in right now?”
赫敏瞥了一眼埃文的头，瞪着金斯莱办公室的外墙，仿佛她能看穿镶板木头。“他现在在吗？”

“I’m afraid I can’t say.”
“恐怕我说不上来。”

Crossing her arms, Hermione dropped her weight onto one hip and narrowed her eyes. “That means yes.” 
赫敏交叉双臂，将体重放在一侧臀部上，眯起眼睛。“那意味着是的。”

Even merely shrugged. “It means I can’t say.”
甚至只是耸了耸肩。“这意味着我不能说。”

“Evan, I’m barely going to take up any of his time, if you’d just let me –”
“Evan，我几乎不会占用他任何时间，如果你让我——”

“He doesn’t want to be disturbed, Miss Granger,” Evan insisted, a bite of frustration creeping into his tone. “This is one of the few times of day that he gets a moment to him –”
『他不想被打扰， Granger小姐， 』Evan坚持道， 他的语气中流露出一丝沮丧。“这是他一天中为数不多的能有时间陪伴他的时间之一——”

“Evan, is everything al – Hermione?”
“埃文，一切都是——赫敏吗？”

Both Hermione and Evan’s attention snapped to Kingsley’s office door, out of which the Minister for Magic had poked his head. When neither of them answered but simply gaped at him, Kingsley blinked once, twice and then tilted his head in expectation of a reply. 
赫敏和埃文的注意力都集中在金斯莱办公室的门上，魔法部长从门里探出头来。当他们都没有回答，只是目瞪口呆地看着他时，金斯利眨了眨眼，眨了一两次眼，然后歪着头期待得到回答。

“I was –”
“我是——”

“We were –”
“我们是——”

Hermione and Evan glanced at one another as they answered at the same time. Pressing her lips together, she allowed Evan to take the lead and address Kingsley. 
赫敏和埃文对视一眼，同时回答道。她紧抿着嘴唇，让Evan带头对Kingsley说话。

“I was just telling Miss Granger, Minister, that you are unavailable for an appointment and that she will have to wait –” Here, Evan spared Hermione a sidelong glare. “Until her appointment next week.”
“我刚才告诉格兰杰小姐，部长，你没时间赴约，她得等一等——”说到这里，埃文瞪了赫敏一眼。“直到她下周的预约。”

“I’d really rather speak now, Kingsley.”
“我现在真想说话，金斯利。”

“Miss Granger, this is the Minister’s administration hour and he –”
“格兰杰小姐，这是部长的行政时间，他——”

“Evan.” Kingsley’s voice was gentle but firm and Evan stopped speaking immediately. “I appreciate you safeguarding my time but if Hermione can promise that this won’t take too long?” Hermione nodded rapidly in response to Kingsley’s enquiring look. “Then I’ll see her briefly.”
“埃文。”金斯利的声音温柔而坚定，埃文立即停止了说话。“我很感激你保护我的时间，但赫敏能保证这不会花太长时间吗？”赫敏迅速点头回应金斯莱询问的眼神。“那我就短暂地见她。”

“Of course, Minister.”
“当然，部长。”

With a single nod, Kingsley stepped back into his office and threw open the door wide, beckoning for Hermione to follow. Directing a quiet “sorry” to Evan, who merely shrugged and waved a hand that said ‘it’s all part of the job’, she scurried after Kingsley.
金斯莱点了点头，走回他的办公室，把门大开，招手让赫敏跟上来。她轻声地对 Evan 说了声“对不起”，而 Evan 只是耸了耸肩，挥了挥手说“这都是工作的一部分”，然后她匆匆忙忙地跟在金斯利后面。

“Is everything alright, Hermione?” Kingsley asked over his shoulder as he swept towards his desk. “I booked you in for next Thursday. I thought, since we agreed that you were returning, there was no great hurry in sorting the finer details.”
“一切都还好吗，赫敏？”Kingsley回头问道，他扫向自己的办公桌。“我帮你预定了下周四。我想，既然我们同意你回来，就不用急着把更细的细节整理出来。

“Well…” Hermione closed the office door, lingering for a moment with her hand on the doorknob before she followed Kingsley to his desk. There was no going back. “I have something about my return and the project that I’d like to discuss with you. Um, sooner rather than later, hence my…” Hermione cringed. “Insistence with Evan.”
“嗯......”赫敏关上了办公室的门，手在门把手上逗留了一会儿，然后她跟着金斯莱走到了他的办公桌前。没有回头路了。“我有一些关于我的回归和项目的事情想和你讨论。嗯，宜早宜迟，因此我的......”赫敏畏缩了。“坚持与埃文。”

Kingsley stopped in the process of pulling out his chair and, as his eyes met hers, Hermione thought she could almost see his expression close over in preparation for a negotiation. “Go on,” he said slowly, resuming the process of taking a seat.
金斯莱在拉开椅子的过程中停了下来，当他的目光与她的眼睛相遇时，赫敏觉得她几乎能看到他准备谈判的表情。“继续，”他缓缓地说，继续坐下。

“So, these laws, Kingsley…” Hermione paused by her own seat and contemplated whether or not she wanted to sit in it. To stand above Kingsley or to bring herself down to his level. He would always leave it up to her. “This project…”
“所以，这些法律，金斯利......”赫敏在自己的座位旁停了下来，考虑着她是否想坐进去。站在金斯利之上，或者让自己降到他的水平。他总是把这事留给她。“这个项目......”

“Yes?” Kingsley prompted, leaning forward, elbows on his desk with his hands clasped. “What about it?”
“是吗？”金斯利提示道，身体前倾，双手紧握，手肘放在桌子上。“怎么样？”

Hermione met his eyes and, taking in a sharp breath, plunged into the seat across from him. “What if I didn’t work on them alone? What if I had a partner? More of a consultant, really, since they wouldn’t strictly be a part of the Ministry.”
赫敏与他对视，猛地吸了一口气，一头扎进了他对面的座位上。“如果我不单独处理它们呢？如果我有合作伙伴怎么办？真的，他们更像是一个顾问，因为他们不会严格地成为魔法部的一部分。

Kingsley drummed his fingers across his own knuckles and pursed his lips contemplatively. “I don’t think the idea of a partner or a consultant ever came up in our discussions, Hermione. Not once. Did you have anyone in particular in mind?”
金斯莱用手指敲打着自己的指关节，沉思地抿着嘴唇。“我认为我们的讨论中从未出现过合伙人或顾问的想法，赫敏。一次也没有。你有没有特别想过什么人？

Kingsley’s gaze was level, expectant. He knew. He knew she had someone in mind and that’s why she just let it tumble out. The sooner he knew, the sooner they could argue about it.
金斯莱的目光平缓而期待。他知道。他知道她心里有谁，所以她就这样让它流出来了。他越早知道，他们就能越早争论。

“Lucius Malfoy.”
“卢修斯·马尔福。”

The name hung in the air between them for a moment. Kingsley’s response was to smile and frown at the same time, like Hermione was making some kind of distasteful joke. 
这个名字在他们之间的空气中悬了一会儿。金斯莱的回应是微笑和皱眉，就像赫敏在开什么令人反感的玩笑一样。

“Hermione –”
“赫敏——”

“It’s a good idea, Kingsley, I promise.”
“这是个好主意，金斯利，我保证。”

Taking a deep breath, like he was preparing to argue, Kingsley settled for unclasping his hands, flattening them on his messy desk and sighing heavily. “Explain,” he said, eyes fixed on his hands. 
金斯利深吸一口气，就像他准备争论一样，他决定解开他的手，把它们压平在凌乱的桌子上，然后重重地叹了口气。“解释一下，”他说，眼睛盯着他的手。

And so Hermione told him as she had told Lucius – she explained the value of having a Pure-blood involved, another pair of eyes that saw the world differently and might, therefore, spy unfairnesses or even loopholes that she wouldn’t.
所以赫敏告诉他，就像她告诉卢修斯一样——她解释了让纯血统参与进来的价值，另一双以不同方式看待世界的眼睛，因此可能会窥探到她不会窥探的不公平甚至漏洞。

“I just think there’s no point in giving Pure-bloods additional grievances,” Hermione said. “In making them feel isolated or…disproportionately punished.”
“我只是觉得没有必要给纯血统的人额外的委屈，”赫敏说。“让他们感到孤立或......受到了不成比例的惩罚。

It took a moment for Kingsley to clear his throat and nod slowly. “I see your reasoning. I accept it. In fact, I heartily agree that your plan has many merits. A partner from the Pure-blood community could, indeed, add legitimacy to what we’re doing.” Hermione beamed at Kingsley as he finally looked up at her. “But what if I were to suggest that we selected someone who wasn’t Lucius Malfoy?”
金斯利过了一会儿才清了清嗓子，慢慢地点了点头。“我明白你的道理。我接受它。事实上，我由衷地同意您的计划有很多优点。来自纯血统社区的合作伙伴确实可以为我们正在做的事情增加合法性。赫敏对金斯莱笑了笑，他终于抬起头看向她。“但是，如果我建议我们选择一个不是卢修斯·马尔福的人呢？”

The smile that had burst onto Hermione’s face faltered, a candle threatened by a cool, uncaring breeze. “Who did you have in mind?”
赫敏脸上绽放的笑容变得摇摇欲坠，蜡烛被凉爽、冷漠的微风威胁着。“你心里想的是谁？”

“Well, no one in particular just yet but –”
“嗯，现在还没有特别的人，但是——”

Hermione’s smile steadied, though it was thinner than before, more polite than sincere. “That’s the thing, Kingsley, I do have someone in mind. And he’s agreed to do it. Why add additional hurdles that will make it even harder to get started?”
赫敏的笑容稳定了下来，尽管比以前更薄了，比起真诚，更多的是礼貌。“就是这样，金斯利，我心里确实有个人。他已经同意这样做了。为什么要增加额外的障碍，使开始变得更加困难？

Lips turned down, Kingsley slumped back in his chair, which creaked in protest. Raising a hand to his forehead, he leaned his temple on his thumb and rubbed at the deep set lines on his forehead with his fingers, like he was trying to massage them away. “You’ve already spoken to him about it?”
金斯利垂下嘴唇，瘫倒在椅子上，椅子吱吱作响以示抗议。他将一只手举到额头上，将太阳穴靠在拇指上，用手指揉搓着额头上深深的皱纹，就像他试图按摩它们一样。“你已经跟他谈过了？”

“I have.”
“我有。”

“And he agreed?”
“他同意了？”

“Yes.” 
“是的。”

Lowering his hand down to his face, Kingsley drew his cheeks between his fingers and thumb then pressed his knuckles over his lips, studying Hermione from under his brow. “Why?” 
金斯莱把手放到脸上，用手指和拇指抚摸着他的脸颊，然后用指关节捂住嘴唇，从赫敏的眉毛下打量着他。“为什么？”

“You assume there’s a reason, Kingsley. I mean, maybe he just –”
“你觉得这是有原因的，金斯利。我的意思是，也许他只是——”

“Hermione.” Kingsley’s voice, for all its deepness, was quiet but she noticed it lacked its usual patience. It was, Hermione had to admit to herself, a miracle that he hadn’t immediately told her she had no right going to Lucius before him about anything.  
“赫敏。”金斯莱的声音，尽管低沉，但很安静，但她注意到它缺乏平常的耐心。赫敏不得不承认，这是一个奇迹，他没有立即告诉她，她无权在他之前去找卢修斯任何事情。

Clearing her throat, Hermione pointlessly smoothed the crumpled cotton of the dress she was wearing. When she’d returned to her flat to fetch it, Lucius had suggested that she might leave some clothes with him. He had said it like it was nothing to him, simply a way to make her life more convenient. It had taken Hermione several minutes to reply that she would think about it. 
赫敏清了清嗓子，毫无意义地抚平了她所穿的裙子上皱巴巴的棉布。当她回到自己的公寓拿东西时，卢修斯建议她把一些衣服留给他。他说这话对他来说不算什么，只是为了让她的生活更方便。赫敏花了好几分钟才回答说她会考虑一下。

“Last night, you said that the Wizengamot felt that Lucius’ assistance in my book had a…what was it?”
“昨天晚上，你说威森加摩觉得卢修斯在我书中的帮助有......那是什么？

“A narrow field of beneficiaries.”
“受益者的范围很窄。”

“Yes. He wasn’t helping enough people with it. If he works with me on this, he'll certainly be helping a lot more people. Potentially, might I add, to his own disadvantage."
“是的。他没有帮助足够多的人。如果他和我一起做这件事，他肯定会帮助更多的人。我还可以补充一点，对他自己不利。

Kingsley tilted his head, acknowledging the truth of that and, encouraged, Hermione continued. "I don’t know how long all of this will take – I know it could be years – but at the end of it, I’d like him to have his freedom.”
金斯莱歪了歪头，承认了这件事的真实性，赫敏受到鼓励，继续说道。“我不知道这一切需要多长时间——我知道可能需要几年——但到最后，我希望他能获得自由。”

“And if I say no? Because I have every right to.”
“如果我说不呢？因为我完全有权利这样做。

Hermione steeled herself, swallowing. “Then I might do the same. Because I also have every right to.”
赫敏强起勇气，咽了咽口水。“那我也可以这样做。因为我也有完全的权利。

A smile, bitter and pained, flashed over Kingsley’s face. He looked more tired than Hermione had ever seen him and as she looked down at the mounds of parchment that littered his desk, the broken quills, a plate bearing a half-eaten sandwich, she wondered how much of a front he put on. 
金斯莱的脸上闪过一丝苦涩和痛苦的笑容。他看起来比赫敏见过的他更疲惫，当她低头看着散落在他桌子上的羊皮纸堆，破损的羽毛笔，一个装着吃了一半的三明治的盘子时，她想知道他装扮得有多大。

The last time she had been in his office, there had been nothing but tea on the desk. When she had worked at the Ministry and attended appointments with him, the parchment had always been neat and tidy, never encroaching on his space. She was catching him at short notice this time; he hadn’t had time to hide the true, ever-demanding nature of the job that no one could really, truly, simply take in their stride. 
她上次来他的办公室时，桌上除了茶什么都没有。当她在魔法部工作并与他一起参加约会时，羊皮纸一直都很整洁，从未侵占他的空间。这一次她是在短时间内抓住了他;他没有时间隐藏这份工作的真实、永远苛刻的本质，没有人能真正、真正、简单地从容不迫地接受。

“You understand that you’re putting me in a very difficult position here, Hermione,” he said, drawing her eyes up from a speech which had more sentences scored out with harsh black lines than not.
“你明白你把我放在了一个非常困难的境地上，赫敏，”他说，把她的眼睛从演讲中抬起来，这演讲中有很多句子被刺耳的黑线划掉了。

“I am offering you a willing candidate to work with me on this project,” Hermione said, pushing aside a squirming sense that she was making a friend’s stressful life even more stressful. “I’m offering you a way to make it an even stronger proposal. Nigh-on unassailable, actually.”
“我向你推荐一个愿意和我一起做这个项目的候选人，”赫敏说，把她让朋友的压力生活更加紧张的蠕动感抛在一边。“我为您提供一种方法，使它成为一个更强大的提案。实际上，几乎无懈可击。

“Hermione, I understand you’ve always liked to have a cause.” Hermione clenched her jaw, forcing her molars to take the weight of her irritation. ‘A cause’ – she was so tired of people saying that like it was a charming accessory; something frivolous she carried around as a talking point. 
“赫敏，我知道你一直都喜欢有自己的事业。”赫敏咬紧下巴，强迫她的臼齿承受她的刺激的重量。“一个原因”——她厌倦了人们说那好像它是一个迷人的配饰;她随身携带一些轻浮的东西作为话题。

“I admire that about you very much,” Kingsley continued, eyeing her tight expression wearily. “But Lucius Malfoy is, at best, an extremely unorthodox choice. Don’t you think it’s gone far enough?”
“我非常佩服你，”金斯莱继续说道，疲惫地看着她紧绷的表情。“但卢修斯·马尔福充其量只是一个极其非正统的选择。你不觉得它已经走得够远了吗？

“No.” 
“不。”

“This isn’t fair.” Only Kingsley, Hermione thought, could say something like that without it sounding whiny. 
“这不公平。”赫敏想，只有金斯莱能说出这样的话，而不会听起来像是抱怨。

“On who?”
“对谁？”

“On me ,” he said, exasperation creeping in. “You know I want you back here but there are so few people who want him given an inch and I…” Kingsley sighed, eyeing the uncompromising set of her jaw.
“对我而言，”他说，愤怒悄悄地蔓延开来。“你知道我想让你回到这里，但很少有人想让他一寸，而我......”金斯莱叹了口气，盯着她那毫不妥协的下巴。

“I am going to lay something out here, Hermione,” he said, planting a palm flat over three sheets of parchment that were filled from edge to edge with his neat script. “The Ministry is a challenging place for people that want to change the world, I know that. It’s old, it’s slow, it creaks. Merlin knows, I’ve seen enough people over the years who are only in it for the titles, money and personal influence. They stand for very little but themselves and, yes, they make change even harder either by being speed bumps or outright blockades.”
“我要在这里布置一些东西，赫敏，”他说，将一只手掌平放在三张羊皮纸上，羊皮纸上从头到尾都写满了他工整的字体。“我知道，对于想要改变世界的人来说，魔法部是一个充满挑战的地方。它很旧，很慢，吱吱作响。梅林知道，这些年来，我见过足够多的人，他们只是为了头衔、金钱和个人影响力而参与其中。他们只代表他们自己，是的，他们通过减速带或彻底的封锁，使变革变得更加困难。

Hermione sucked in a breath but Kingsley shook his head and held up a hand, halting her.
赫敏吸了一口气，但金斯莱摇了摇头，举起一只手，阻止了她。

“But we cannot be rid of them. They will always be here. What we can do is balance them out with good, selfless people. People with the bravery and intelligence necessary to envision a different and better future. That is why I am giving you this project – I know it’s the kind of thing you strive for and I want people like you working alongside me.” Kingsley paused for a moment, contemplating his words. “No, not want. Need. I need it.” 
“但我们不能摆脱他们。他们将永远在这里。我们能做的就是用善良、无私的人来平衡他们。具有必要的勇气和智慧，可以设想一个不同的、更美好的未来。这就是我给你这个项目的原因——我知道这是你为之奋斗的目标，我希望像你这样的人与我一起工作。金斯莱停顿了一会儿，沉思着他的话。“不，不想要。需要。我需要它。

“You still have good people, Kingsley,” Hermione said quietly. She’d never seen him so close to frayed and it gave her pause – she’d been so frustrated by the limited impact of her presence in the Ministry, she hadn’t ever contemplated what her absence would do. 
“你还有好人，金斯莱，”赫敏轻声说。她从未见过他如此接近磨损，这让她停顿了一下——她对自己在魔法部的存在所造成的有限影响感到非常沮丧，她从来没有想过她的缺席会带来什么。

Kingsley chuckled mirthlessly and glanced down at all the parchment beneath his hands. “I feel like I don’t have nearly enough of them and I am worried .” He met her eyes and Hermione saw it. “I won’t be here forever and I need to set up the pieces so that the right people move into the right positions when I’m gone. It might be years down the line but Merlin knows it’ll end up feeling like seconds.”
金斯利无情地笑了笑，低头看了一眼他手下的所有羊皮纸。“我觉得我几乎没有足够多的疫苗，我很担心。”他对上了她的眼睛，赫敏看到了。“我不会永远在这里，我需要做好准备，以便在我离开时，正确的人会进入正确的位置。可能需要几年时间，但 Merlin 知道这最终会感觉像几秒钟。

Kingsley pointed at Hermione, his eyes blazing. “You are one of those right people, Hermione. Not just because of what you want but because of who you are . Do you understand me?”
金斯莱指着赫敏，眼睛炯炯有神。“你就是那些合适的人之一，赫敏。不仅仅是因为你想要什么，还因为你是谁。你明白我的话吗？

“Kingsley…”
“金斯利......”

“When you left the Ministry, it didn’t reflect especially positively on me.”
“当你离开魔法部时，它并没有对我产生特别积极的影响。”

Hermione’s heart thumped loudly in her ears. “What do you –”
赫敏的心在耳边砰砰直跳。“你怎么——”

“When Ron departed to work with his brother, it was widely publicised and accepted as an act of familial solidarity – something for which the Weasleys are rather renowned. I could bear it given I still had you and Harry. But when you, Hermione, decided to depart so suddenly –”
“当罗恩离开去和他的兄弟一起工作时，这被广泛宣传并被接受为一种家庭团结的行为——韦斯莱一家因此而闻名。我能忍受，因为我还有你和哈利。但是，当你，赫敏，决定这么突然地离开时——”

Understanding landed on Hermione with a sickly splat. “Oh, I see,” she replied, trying not to sound overly scathing or hurt. “Didn’t like losing the whole set after the war, is that it? Ministry doesn’t shine quite as bright without the full Golden Trio?”
理解落在赫敏身上，病态地啪啪作响。“哦，我明白了，”她回答道，尽量不让自己听起来过于严厉或伤人。“我不喜欢战后失去整套，是吗？没有完整的黄金三重奏，事工就不会那么耀眼吗？

“Don’t make it sound so…” Kingsley winced and gave a concessionary wave of his hand. “ Yes , alright? Yes. But you cannot pretend you don’t mean something, Hermione. You three were – are – the heroes of our world! And when a hero simply leaves the institution that’s supposed to be guiding the world forward into a new era, what is everyone supposed to think?”
“别这么说......”金斯莱皱起眉头，让步地挥了挥手。“是的，好吗？是的。但你不能假装你没有意思，赫敏。你们三个曾经——现在是——我们世界的英雄！当一个英雄简单地离开了本应引导世界进入新时代的机构时，每个人都应该怎么想？

“Maybe they’re supposed to think that there’s a possibility the Ministry isn’t as efficient, all-knowing and united as it tries to make itself look.”
“也许他们应该认为，魔法部有可能并不像它试图让自己看起来那样高效、无所不知和团结。”

“They can’t think that, Hermione,” Kingsley snapped, leaning forward to jab a finger down on his desk. “Do you understand? We’re supposed to keep this world together, particularly in times of change and uncertainty. I told everyone you’d be back, of course, as you told me. But now the two years of your sabbatical have passed and they’ve started asking again. People are wondering why one of the great heroes of our age doesn’t want to be part of my Ministry and I’m running out of answers to give them.”
“他们不能这么想，赫敏，”金斯莱厉声说，身体前倾，用一根手指戳了戳他的桌子。“你明白吗？我们应该让这个世界团结在一起，尤其是在变化和不确定的时期。我告诉大家你会回来的，当然，就像你告诉我的那样。但是现在你的两年休假已经过去了，他们又开始要求了。人们想知道为什么我们这个时代的伟大英雄之一不想成为我事工的一部分，而我给他们的答案已经不多了。

“So, it’s all about the optics, is it?”
“所以，这一切都与光学有关，是吗？”

“Optics are important , Hermione!” Kingsley’s eyes were wide, his tone urgent. “Do you think I would have survived as a spy for the Order if I didn’t have some understanding of that? Not everything can be presented exactly as it is all the time . Right now, this Ministry needs to look strong and purposeful. It needs to look united. So I need you back and making positive changes. What I don’t need is Death Eaters.”
“光学很重要，赫敏！”金斯莱睁大了眼睛，语气急促。“你觉得如果我对此没有一些了解，我能作为组织的间谍活下来吗？并非一切都可以一直完全呈现。现在，这个事工需要看起来强大而有目的。它需要看起来团结一致。所以我需要你回来并做出积极的改变。我不需要的是食死徒。

Hermione’s breathing was fast through her nose, her heart hammering. “I’ve got good news for you, Kingsley: he’s not one of those anymore.”
赫敏的鼻子呼吸急促，她的心跳加速。“我有个好消息要告诉你，金斯利：他已经不是那种人了。”

“Hermione –”
“赫敏——”

“Don’t you see that you could be the Minister that was able to bring together a former Death Eater and a Muggleborn and have them work on something that’s to the benefit of the entire Wizarding World? I’d say that looks pretty good for you.”
“难道你没看到你能成为部长，把一个前食死徒和一个麻瓜出身的人聚集在一起，让他们做一些对整个魔法世界有利的事情吗？”我想说这对你来说还不错。

When Kingsley said nothing and instead dropped his head into his hands, drawing them down his face to peer at Hermione over his fingertips, she gave one final push.
当金斯莱什么也没说，反而把头埋进他的手里，把双手从他的脸上拉下来，从指尖盯着赫敏时，她给了他最后的推。

“You could be the Minister for whom one of Voldemort’s highest ranking Death Eaters was willing to turn against almost everything he once stood for.”
“你可以成为伏地魔中级别最高的食死徒之一，愿意反对他曾经代表的几乎所有事情的部长。”

Lifting his head fully, Kingsley scrutinised Hermione. She had a sense that he was finally allowing himself to look at something he had only dared to glance at before. “But he wouldn’t be doing it for me, would he, Hermione?”
金斯莱完全抬起头，仔细观察赫敏。她有一种感觉，他终于允许自己看着他以前只敢看一眼的东西。“但他不会为我做这件事的，对吧，赫敏？”

Beneath the desk, out of Kingsley’s eye line, Hermione twisted the fabric of her skirt in her fist. “Not everything can be presented exactly as it is all the time, Kingsley,” she said softly. “Isn’t that right?”
在桌子下面，在金斯莱的视线之外，赫敏用拳头扭动着裙子的布料。“不是所有的东西都能一直保持原样，金斯利，”她轻声说。“对吗？”

Something like true, wry amusement passed over Kingsley’s face then and, had they been in any kind of open combat, Hermione would have marked it as the moment that he would have lowered his wand. 
那时，金斯莱的脸上闪过了某种真实、讽刺的笑容，如果他们正在进行任何形式的公开战斗，赫敏会把它标记为他放下魔杖的那一刻。

“Oh, to have someone like you fighting in my corner all the time," Kingsley said, chuckling tiredly. Exhaling through his nose, he ran the edge of his forefinger along his lower lip for a moment before he said, "You actually think he’s right for the work? That he’ll be helpful?”
“哦，有你这样的人一直在我这边战斗，”金斯利说，疲惫地笑了起来。他从鼻子里呼出一口气，用食指的边缘在下唇上滑过了一会儿，然后说：“你真的觉得他适合这份工作吗？他会帮忙的吗？

“Aside from his blood status and the weight his family name still holds, I think his background in and around the Ministry more than qualifies him.” Hermione sucked in a breath. “And I trust him.” 
“除了他的血统地位和他的姓氏仍然具有分量之外，我认为他在事工内外的背景使他有资格。”赫敏吸了一口气。“我相信他。”

“I do not,” Kingsley said shortly. Then, his expression softening, he added, “But I do trust you.”
“我不知道，”金斯利很快说。然后，他的表情变得柔和，他补充道，“但我确实信任你。

“I don’t intend to give you reason to regret that, Kingsley.”
“我不打算让你有理由后悔，金斯莱。”

Kingsley nodded once slowly and, sinking down in his seat, he lowered his hand from his face so that it hung over the arm of his chair. Several long seconds passed, during which Kingsley simply inspected Hermione and she allowed him to, trying to hide her nerves.
金斯莱缓缓地点了点头，然后一头扎进座位上，把手从脸上放下来，悬在椅子的扶手上。漫长的几秒钟过去了，在此期间，金斯莱只是检查了赫敏，她允许他这样做，试图隐藏她的紧张。

“Very well, Hermione," he finally said. "I will approve your chosen consultant. Based on its previous demurrals, I can’t see the Wizengamot being able to deny your request and I will, of course, give my own recommendations that it be granted."
“很好，赫敏，”他终于说了。“我会批准你选择的顾问。根据之前的反对意见，我看不出威森加摩能够拒绝你的请求，当然，我会给出我自己的建议来批准它。

Hermione breathed an audible sigh of relief and Kingsley sat up straight, lifting a finger to ask for pause. "However, be assured that his freedom, in whatever form we eventually agree it will take, is not likely to come until after this project is complete, do you understand? He will get nothing unless he sees this through to the end.”
赫敏松了一口气，金斯莱坐直了身子，抬起一根手指要求暂停。“但是，请放心，他的自由，无论我们最终同意采取何种形式，都不太可能在这个项目完成之前到来，你明白吗？除非他把这件事坚持到底，否则他将一无所获。

“Understood. To be expected, actually, I think.”
“明白了。实际上，我认为这是意料之中的。

“Given Lucius’...” Kingsley sighed and hopelessly shuffled some fragments of parchment together. “ Singular circumstances, I will grant you permission to work with him outside the bounds of the Ministry. However –” Here he fixed Hermione with an unblinking stare over the parchment. “I expect weekly updates on your progress – a large degree of transparency will be necessary in this, particularly now that he’s involved. I wish you to be a more visible presence in the Ministry going forward, anyway.”
“鉴于卢修斯的......”金斯莱叹了口气，绝望地把一些羊皮纸碎片拼凑在一起。“特殊情况，我会允许你在魔法部的范围之外与他一起工作。然而——“说到这里，他盯着赫敏，一眨不眨地盯着羊皮纸。“我希望每周都能更新你的进度——这其中需要很大程度的透明度，尤其是现在他参与其中。无论如何，我希望你在未来的魔法部中能有更多可见的存在。

“Optics again?”
“又是光学？”

“Practicalities,” he said sternly. “Preparations. As I told you last night, there is a deputy head of department appointment due to come up in a couple of years and I would have you in an unimpeachable position to take it.”
“实用性，”他严肃地说。“准备工作。正如我昨晚告诉你的，几年后将任命一名副系主任，我希望你处于无可挑剔的位置来接受它。

“A couple of years is a long time.”
“几年是很长的时间。”

“Maybe to you,” Kingsley responded with a tired shrug as he tucked his papers into a folder. “To me, in this job, two years from now is as close and important as tomorrow.”
“也许对你来说，”金斯利疲惫地耸耸肩，把他的文件塞进了一个文件夹。“对我来说，在这份工作中，两年后和明天一样近在咫尺和重要。”

“The Wizarding World might not care so much about my reputation as a hero then,” Hermione said, trying to keep the bitter taste in her mouth out of her tone. “What if there’s some other bright young thing that will make the department look good?”
“那魔法世界可能就不那么在乎我作为英雄的名声了，”赫敏说，试图让嘴里的苦涩味道不出现在她的语气中。“如果还有其他一些聪明的年轻人会让这个部门看起来不错呢？”

“That will not make you any less suited to the job in my eyes,” he replied firmly, setting down the folder. “The optics are for everyone else. I see the reality – you are a strong and talented witch that the Ministry would be lucky to have, Hermione.”
“那不会让你不适合我眼中的这份工作，”他坚定地回答，放下了文件夹。“这些镜头是为其他人准备的。我看到了现实——你是一个强大而有才华的女巫，魔法部有幸拥有你就好了，赫敏。

When Hermione raised a doubtful brow, Kingsley said, “Please don’t take my pointing out the importance of your reputation from your role in the war as some kind of attempt to diminish your innate capabilities. It is not a case of one or the other. In fact, with intelligent utilisation of both, I see no reason why you could not be sitting in this very seat within the decade.”
当赫敏疑惑地扬起眉毛时，金斯莱说，“请不要把我从你在战争中的角色中指出你的声誉的重要性看作是某种削弱你与生俱来的能力的企图。这不是非此即彼的情况。事实上，通过巧妙地利用这两者，我认为你没有理由不能在十年内坐在这个位置上。

At that, Hermione stilled, her cheeks taking on a pink hue. “Kingsley, I’ve already said I’m coming back, you can tone down the flattery.”
听到这话，赫敏安静了下来，她的脸颊呈现出粉红色。“金斯利，我已经说过我要回来了，你可以把奉承调低一些。”

“It’s not flattery,” Kingsley said, turning his palms upwards, his fingers spread. “It is an invitation to think about your future. Something I think you have not done quite enough these past years." 
“这不是奉承，”金斯利说，手掌向上转动，手指张开。“这是一份考虑你未来的邀请。我认为你在过去几年里做得还不够。

Kingsley held her gaze for a moment longer before he cleared his throat and pulled a blank sheet of parchment towards himself. “Now, I don’t wish to be rude but our new agreement has given me some additional letters to write today and I really ought to get started.”
金斯利又凝视了她一会儿，然后清了清嗓子，把一张空白的羊皮纸拉向自己。“现在，我不想粗鲁，但我们的新协议给了我一些额外的信件今天要写，我真的应该开始了。”

“Of course! Of course,” Hermione hurriedly pushed herself to her feet and looked down at Kingsley’s head, bent over the parchment on which he was scratching a letter. “Kingsley…”
“当然！当然，“赫敏急忙站起来，低头看着金斯莱的头，弯下腰在羊皮纸上刮着一封信。“金斯利......”

He looked up and Hermione simply said, “Thank you", trying to inject as much feeling as possible into two words which felt wholly insufficient.
他抬起头，赫敏只是简单地说了一句“谢谢”，试图在两个感觉完全不够的词中注入尽可能多的感情。

Kingsley’s responding smile was warm but weary. “If you want to thank me, you can get started on this. I’ll have Evan owl you some guidance. Come and see me in a week or two with your progress and we can start thinking about an announcement.”
金斯莱回应的微笑是温暖的，但又是疲惫的。“如果你想感谢我，你可以开始做这个。我会让 Evan 猫头鹰给你一些指导。一两周后来找我，告诉你的进展情况，我们可以开始考虑发布公告。

Hermione was barely aware of the other Ministry employees in the lift as she ascended to the Atrium, her conversation with Kingsley chasing itself around her head in an anxious, excitable circle. 
赫敏在登上中庭时几乎没注意到电梯里的其他魔法部员工，她和金斯利的谈话在她脑海中以焦虑、兴奋的方式追逐着自己。

"Hermione?"
“赫敏？”

She’d gotten what she wanted. She was going to be working on something incredibly important to the future of the Wizarding World. She was going to be doing it with Lucius. Kingsley was handing her the power to make positive changes and he’d even gone so far as to suggest that she might, one day, actually be — no, she couldn’t think it. She didn’t even want it.
她得到了她想要的。她将要从事对魔法世界的未来非常重要的事情。她要和卢修斯一起做这件事。金斯利把做出积极改变的力量交给了她，他甚至暗示她有一天可能会真的成为——不，她无法思考。她甚至都不想要。

"Hermione."
“赫敏。”

But the idea that he thought it possible gave her such a surge of belief in herself that she felt she might actually be able to face whatever the Ministry tried to throw at her on her return. 
但是他认为这是可能的这个想法让她对自己有了如此大的信心，以至于她觉得她真的能够面对魔法部试图在她回来时向她扔出的任何东西。

“Hermione!”
“赫敏！”

Blinking as the sound of her own name being called broke through her reverie, Hermione realised she was already sweeping through the Atrium, the lifts far behind her. A hand on her arm made her turn and flinch before she realised that both it and the voice belonged to Harry. 
当她自己的名字被呼唤的声音打破她的遐想时，赫敏眨了眨眼，意识到她已经扫过了中庭，电梯远远地在她身后。一只手搭在她的手臂上，让她转过身来，畏缩了一下，然后她才意识到它和那个声音都属于哈利。

He was wide-eyed, his breathing slightly laboured like he’d been forced to chase her. A few Ministry employees had turned to look at them and, hand still on Hermione’s arm, he threw swift glares in every direction, wordlessly telling them all to mind their own business. Harry really had gotten incredibly good at that. 
他睁大了眼睛，呼吸略微费力，就像是被迫追赶她一样。几个魔法部的员工转过头来看他们，手仍然放在赫敏的手臂上，他迅速地向四面八方投来目光，无言地告诉他们都管好自己的事。哈利真的非常擅长这一点。

“Harry! God, I’m so sorry, I was completely in my own world,” Hermione said, turning fully towards him and removing his hand from her own to grasp his fingers between her warm, slightly clammy palms. 
“哈利！上帝啊，我很抱歉，我完全沉浸在自己的世界里，“赫敏说，完全转向他，把他的手从她自己的手上移开，用她温暖、略带湿漉漉的手掌抓住他的手指。

“I could see that,” Harry replied, looking somewhere between amused and relieved. “I didn’t expect to see you at the Ministry today. You were moving so quickly I wondered if I was hallucinating you.”
“我看得出来，”哈利回答，看起来介于好笑和松了一口气之间。“我没想到今天会在魔法部见到你。你移动得太快了，我怀疑我是不是让你产生了幻觉。

“Meeting with Kingsley,” Hermione explained. Then, seeing Harry’s raised eyebrows, she waved a hand. “You’ll hear all about it in great detail over the next few weeks but let’s just say you’ll be seeing a little more of me in the Atrium and elsewhere soon.”
“和金斯莱见面，”赫敏解释道。然后，看到哈利扬起的眉毛，她挥了挥手。“在接下来的几周里，你会听到所有关于它的信息，但你只能说，你很快就会在中庭和其他地方看到更多我。”

“Hermione, that’s fantastic!” Harry enthused, squeezing Hermione’s hand more tightly than she had held his. She felt her heart swell further. Coming back to the Ministry could be good. It could be. Especially if she and Harry were in the same department — they could face anything together.
“赫敏，那太棒了！”哈利兴奋地握住赫敏的手，比她握住他的手还紧。她感到自己的心跳得更厉害了。回到魔法部可能会很好。可能是。特别是如果她和哈利在同一个部门——他们可以一起面对任何事情。

“Hopefully it will be.” She lowered her voice, quickly looking around at the various witches and wizards streaming past them. “But keep it quiet for now. There are still some details that need to be worked out and I don’t know how Kingsley wants to play it.”
“希望会这样。”她压低了声音，迅速环顾四周，看着从他们身边流过的各种女巫和巫师。“但现在保持沉默。还有一些细节需要解决，我不知道金斯利想怎么演。

Harry winked at her, tapping a finger against the side of his nose, and Hermione beamed at him in response. 
哈利对她眨了眨眼，用一根手指敲了敲他的鼻子侧面，赫敏也对他露出了笑容作为回应。

"It’s nice seeing you look so happy," he said. "Especially here."
“看到你看起来这么开心，真是太好了，”他说。“尤其是这里。”

"You’re saying that like you have reason to believe I might not be." Hermione tried to say it jokingly but Harry read the wariness in her face easily.
“你是这么说的，就像你有理由相信我可能不是。”赫敏试图开玩笑地说出来，但哈利很容易就读出她脸上的警惕。

"Well, I just…" He sighed and shrugged. "Ginny said you looked a bit off at the end of last night so when I saw you practically running back there I did wonder."
“嗯，我只是......”他叹了口气，耸了耸肩。“金妮说你昨晚结束时看起来有点不对劲，所以当我看到你几乎跑回去时，我确实想知道。”

Hermione cast her mind back to the end of the night when she’d told Ginny and Neville that she’d hang around Malfoy Manor until the end of the event. Had it really only been the previous evening? She felt like so much had happened in the intervening hours. 
赫敏回想起那天晚上的结尾，她告诉金妮和纳威，她会在马尔福庄园闲逛，直到活动结束。真的只是前一天晚上吗？她觉得在这期间发生了很多事情。

“I was just tired. Really busy night, you know, and a pretty unexpected occasion so…”
“我只是累了。你知道的，晚上真的很忙，而且是一个非常出乎意料的场合，所以......”

Yeah.” Harry shot her a guilty grin and Hermione returned it with a smile of her own that told him she didn’t hold him responsible for any of it. 
是的。哈利向她露出一个内疚的笑容，赫敏也以她自己的微笑回应，告诉他她不让他为此负责。

"It’s just –" Harry grimaced. "I think Ginny was hoping you’d swing by after. Ron and Neville made things up. It was really something, actually – Ron held Neville’s hair back when a firewhiskey shot made him sick. Quite touching. They insisted on sharing the sofa even though we told them we have more than enough space."
“只是——”哈利做了个鬼脸。“我想金妮是希望你之后能过来。罗恩和内维尔编造了事情。实际上，这真的很了不起——当一瓶烈火威士忌让纳威感到恶心时，罗恩把他的头发往后拉。相当感人。他们坚持共用沙发，即使我们告诉他们我们有足够的空间。

Hermione snorted, her shoulders jumping. "I'm actually sorry I missed that." Though she certainly didn't regret how she'd ended up spending her night. "Like I said, though, it was a busy night and I just wanted to get to bed."
赫敏哼了一声，肩膀跳了起来。“我真的很抱歉我错过了那个。”尽管她当然不后悔她最终是如何度过这个夜晚的。“不过，就像我说的，那是一个忙碌的夜晚，我只想上床睡觉。”

Here Harry became awkward, like he wasn't sure how best to proceed. "So you did get home?" 
这时哈利变得尴尬起来，就像他不确定该如何最好地进行一样。“所以你真的回家了？”

When Hermione didn’t respond, instead pressing her lips in a thin line and dropping her eyes to the shining tiles of the Atrium, Harry gripped the back of his neck, his face contorting with an awkward cringe. 
赫敏没有回应，而是把嘴唇压成一条细线，把眼睛投向中庭闪闪发光的瓷砖，哈利抓住了他的后颈，他的脸因尴尬的畏缩而扭曲。

"It’s just…well, I stopped by your flat because Ginny was worried that you hadn’t shown up and you’d seemed so out of sorts and you sort of…weren’t…home."
“只是......嗯，我去了你的公寓，因为金妮担心你没有出现，而且你看起来那么不正常，你有点......不是。。。家。

"I stayed at Malfoy Manor."
“我住在马尔福庄园。”

She made the admission so baldly, so boldly, eyes rising to meet Harry’s, that she might have slapped him given the slack-jawed expression he wore in response. 
她如此赤裸裸地承认了这一点，如此大胆地抬起眼睛与哈利的眼睛对视，考虑到他作为回应时松弛的表情，她可能会扇他一巴掌。

"Oh." He blinked rapidly. "I see. Okay. Well, that’s good that you can…feel…” Harry waved a searching hand, still gripping the back of his neck with the other. “Y’know…that they have…that kind of…space."
“哦。”他迅速地眨了眨眼。“我明白了。好。嗯，这很好，你可以......感觉......”哈利挥了挥一只寻找的手，另一只手仍然紧紧抓住他的后颈。“你知道的......他们有......那种......空间。

"Yeah."
“是的。”

Silence fell between them, Harry visibly animated with a desire to ask more questions and Hermione tense and still with reticence to say anything more.
他们之间陷入了沉默，哈利显然很想问更多问题，而赫敏则紧张起来，仍然不敢再说什么。

"Do you want to come over tonight instead?" Harry finally asked. 
“你今晚想过来吗？”哈利终于问道。

When Hermione looked hesitant, Harry pressed. "It's been ages since we did one of our dinners and I think Ginny would really appreciate it. She was worried about you last night. When she didn’t hear from you and you weren’t home – you know how she gets."
当赫敏看起来犹豫不决时，哈利追问道。“我们已经很久没有吃过一次晚饭了，我想金妮会非常感激的。她昨晚很担心你。当她没有收到你的消息，你也不在家时——你知道她是怎么回事。

Hermione swallowed down the distasteful mix of guilt and the desire to snap at Harry that she was a grown woman with her own private affairs, opting to nod instead. An argument in the Ministry Atrium was not what she wanted. 
赫敏吞下了令人厌恶的内疚和想对哈利发火的渴望，说她是一个有自己私事的成年女人，而是选择了点头。魔法部中庭的争论不是她想要的。

"I won't cook," Harry offered and when Hermione shot him a puzzled look he explained, "Ginny thinks that'll make invitations to our home more appealing."
“我不会做饭，”哈利提议，当赫敏困惑地看了他一眼时，他解释说，“金妮觉得这会让我们家的邀请更有吸引力。

Hermione couldn't help but laugh. She hadn't seen enough of her friends in recent weeks. "Well, now that I have that assurance of course I'll come over. I'd love to."
赫敏忍不住笑了起来。最近几周，她没见过足够多的朋友。“嗯，既然我有这个保证，我当然会过来的。我很乐意。

"Great!" Harry beamed. "Great. I’ll let Ginny know – she’ll be so happy. Call it 7?"
“太好了！”哈利笑了。“太好了。我会让 Ginny 知道——她会很高兴的。叫 7 号？

"Sure," Hermione said, nodding. "I'll bring the wine."
“当然，”赫敏点点头说。“我来拿酒来。”

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

And the wine may be needed...
而且可能需要葡萄酒......

Chapter 37
第三十七章Chapter Notes
章节注释

You're all so bloody wonderful. Thank you <3 
你们都太棒了。谢谢 <3

A little content warning for this chapter - there are mentions of a difficult birth. Nothing detailed or specific but it is mentioned and I feel it should be given the heads up.
本章的一点内容警告 - 其中提到了艰难的分娩。没有什么细节或具体，但提到了它，我觉得应该提前提醒。

See the end of the chapter for more notes
更多注释见本章末尾Lucius was already in the library when Hermione returned later that evening. He was just depositing a heavy pile of books on the desk that was, in his eyes, now purely hers when the fire blazed green and she appeared spinning like a top at its centre.
那天晚上赫敏回来时，卢修斯已经在图书馆里了。他只是把一堆沉重的书放在书桌上，在他眼里，这本来是她的，这时火堆闪耀着绿色的光芒，她像陀螺一样在中心旋转。

Stumbling out of the grate, distractedly brushing herself down, she looked up without really seeing him. Then, stopping, she looked up properly and a beaming smile lit up her face when she spied him watching her. It was, Lucius mused, going to take some time to get used to someone looking that happy to see him. He couldn't deny, however, that seeing her brought him an unexpectedly large amount of peace after what had ended up being a very unsettled afternoon.
她跌跌撞撞地从格栅里走出来，心不在焉地拂过自己，抬起头来，却没有真正看到他。然后，她停下来，正确地抬起头来，当她看到他看着她时，她的脸上露出了灿烂的笑容。卢修斯沉思着，要花一些时间来适应一个看起来那么高兴看到他的人。然而，他不能否认，在经历了一个非常不安的下午之后，见到她给他带来了意想不到的平静。

"Just who I was coming to see," she said, swiftly rounding the table to close the space between them. Wrapping her arms around him, she stood on her tiptoes to place a kiss on his lips and, when she drew her face away, he saw she was still grinning, her eyes creased at the corners.
“我就是来见谁的，”她说，迅速绕过桌子以拉近他们之间的距离。她搂着他，踮起脚尖在他的嘴唇上亲了一下，当她把脸移开时，他看到她仍然在咧嘴笑，眼角皱起。

"Am I to assume," Lucius said, his brow rising with wry amusement, "based on your general jubilance right now, that your meeting with Shacklebolt was positive?"
“我是否可以假设，”卢修斯说，他的眉毛带着讽刺的笑容，“根据你现在普遍的喜悦，你和沙克尔博尔特的会面是积极的吗？

Practically hovering with excitement, Hermione nodded vigorously up at him. "My 'chaotic at best' negotiating style," she said, dropping her voice into a crude imitation of his drawl, "was a success."
赫敏几乎兴奋地盘旋着，用力地朝他点了点头。“我'充其量是混乱的'谈判风格，”她说，压低了声音，粗暴地模仿了他的拖沓，“很成功。

"Imagine my surprise," he said, the corner of his mouth quirking. 
“想象一下我的惊喜，”他说，嘴角抽搐着。

There was, of course, nothing surprising about it. Based on what she'd told him that very morning, he suspected that Shacklebolt had ambitions for Hermione in the Ministry. In his time, he had known Ministers to select favourites – with different Ministers seeking out vastly different qualities – and Hermione struck him as a good match for Shacklebolt’s particular brand of post-war idealism. Her righteousness and work ethic made her an indefatigable force in a time of general fatigue. Though he couldn't be entirely certain what Shacklebolt’s intentions were, a task of such magnitude and an invitation into the DMLE suggested they were not insignificant. Lucius was certainly keen to see them unfold.
当然，这并没有什么奇怪的。根据她那天早上告诉他的话，他怀疑沙克尔博尔特在魔法部对赫敏有野心。在他那个时代，他知道部长们会挑选最喜欢的人——不同的部长们会寻找截然不同的品质——赫敏觉得他很适合沙克尔博尔特特有的战后理想主义。她的正义和职业道德使她在普遍疲惫的时期成为一股不屈不挠的力量。虽然他不能完全确定沙克尔博尔特的意图是什么，但如此艰巨的任务和加入 DMLE 的邀请表明他们并非微不足道。卢修斯当然很想看到他们展开。

"You'll be working with me on the project as my consultant,” Hermione said. “For the whole thing. Kingsley quite agreed with the reasoning. We can do it from here, too, but I'll have to deliver weekly updates in the Ministry." When Lucius raised his eyebrows, she explained "transparency," with a dismissive shrug.
“你会作为我的顾问和我一起做这个项目，”赫敏说。“为了整件事。金斯利完全同意这个理由。我们也可以从这里开始，但我必须在魔法部每周提供更新。当卢修斯扬起眉毛时，她不屑一顾地耸了耸肩，解释了“透明度”。

"And when it's finished, whenever that may be, whatever settlement is eventually agreed between yourself, Kingsley and the Wizengamot will be actioned." She paused, searching his face. "Not before."
“当它完成时，无论何时，无论你、金斯利和威森加摩之间最终达成什么和解协议，都会采取行动。”她停顿了一下，打量着他的脸。“以前没有。”

“A see it through or see nothing arrangement again, then,” Lucius replied, trying not to sound too disgruntled. Realistically, he'd have been more surprised if they'd made any kind of concession. There was, in fact, a good chance that Shacklebolt was hoping he wouldn’t see it through. The thought of proving him wrong and forcing his hand was more than enough to sustain Lucius.
“那么，要么看透，要么什么都没看到，”卢修斯回答道，尽量不让自己听起来太不满。实际上，如果他们做出任何让步，他会更感到惊讶。事实上，沙克尔博尔特很有可能希望他不会看穿这一切。证明他是错的，强迫他出手的想法就足以支撑卢修斯。

"You'll still do it?" she asked. "Even with that restriction? We don't know how long this will take, remember."
“你还会这样做吗？”“即使有那个限制？我们不知道这需要多长时间，记住。

Giving her an indulgent smile, Lucius slid a hand to the back of her neck and drew her in for a kiss. To his satisfaction, the frenetic, bouncing energy occasioned by her success with Shacklebolt and her worry about him lessened slightly and she melted into him. 
卢修斯对她露出一个纵容的微笑，将一只手滑到她的后颈上，将她拉进去亲吻。令他满意的是，她在 Shacklebolt 的成功和她对他的担忧所带来的狂热、弹跳的能量略微减轻，她融入了他。

"I have no intention of disappointing you," he said, his voice low as he kept his face close to hers. "Would I have bothered searching out these books if I did?"
“我不想让你失望，”他说，他的声音很低，把脸贴近了她的脸。“如果我这样做了，我会费心去找这些书吗？”

Arms still wrapped around him, she turned her head to look down at the books he'd piled up on the desk. 
她仍然搂着他，转过头来，低头看着他堆在书桌上的书。

"You’re eager," she said, pulling out of his embrace to pick up the books and read their titles. They were all legal textbooks that he hoped would help them in their research of the pro-Pure-blood laws. There wasn’t, he had supposed, a better library to start with for that particular subject matter. 
“你很热，”她说，从他的怀抱中抽出来，拿起书，读起书名。他们都是法律教科书，他希望能帮助他们研究亲纯血统的法律。他认为，对于这个特定主题来说，没有更好的库可以作为起点。

"Eager for a distraction," Lucius said, rubbing a hand across his strained eyes. The faded text on the book spines and the dim lighting of the library had left him squinting. 
“急于分散注意力，”卢修斯说，用一只手揉了揉他紧张的眼睛。书脊上褪色的文字和图书馆昏暗的灯光让他眯起眼睛。

"Distraction from what?" Hermione asked, glancing over her shoulder at him from the book on the top of the pile that she'd opened to a random page. 
“什么分散了你的注意力？”赫敏问道，从她随意打开的一堆书顶端的书中回头瞥了他一眼。

"Astoria went into labour," he explained. Hermione straightened up, the book closing with a heavy thump as she dropped it and turned around. "This morning while she was having breakfast with Draco and Narcissa. I received an owl shortly after you left but I haven’t heard anything since."
“阿斯托利亚开始分娩，”他解释说。赫敏直起身来，书砰的一声合上了，她扔下书，转过身来。“今天早上，她和德拉科还有纳西莎一起吃早餐。你走后不久，我收到了一只猫头鹰，但从那以后我就再也没有听到任何消息了。

"That was a while ago," Hermione said, worrying her lower lip between her teeth .
“那是很久以前的事了，”赫敏说，她的下唇在牙齿之间担心。

A disgruntled hum of agreement from Lucius prompted her to reach out and take his hands in hers. "Draco will make sure you get news as soon as there's any to give," she said gently. "You know he will."
卢修斯不满地哼了一声表示同意，促使她伸出手来握住了他的手。“德拉科会确保你一有消息就得到消息，”她温和地说。“你知道他会的。”

Eyes on their joined hands, Lucius inclined his head in acknowledgement. She was surely correct. It wouldn't be like Draco to leave him in the dark and certainly Narcissa wouldn't be so spiteful as to –
卢修斯的眼睛看着他们合在一起的手，歪着头表示认可。她肯定是对的。德拉科不会把他蒙在鼓里，当然纳西莎也不会恶毒到——

"Lucius."
“卢修斯。”

The sound of the voice from the door of the library made them both freeze. Lucius looked up over Hermione's head and, seeing Narcissa in the doorway, his jaw tightened. 
图书馆门口传来的声音让他们俩都僵住了。卢修斯抬头越过赫敏的头，看到门口的纳西莎，他的下巴紧紧了。

Reading his face, Hermione dropped his hands and turned around to face the door herself. When she spied Narcissa, she stepped back, her back bumping gently against Lucius' chest. Instinctively, he brought a hand down to her hip to steady her.
赫敏看了他的脸，放下了手，转身面对着门。当她看到纳西莎时，她向后退了一步，她的背轻轻地撞在卢修斯的胸膛上。他本能地将一只手伸到她的臀部以稳定她。

"Narcissa," he said, like this was the most natural gathering of people he could imagine and not, in any way, utterly horrendous. "You have news?"
“纳西莎，”他说，仿佛这是他能想象到的最自然的人们聚会，而且无论如何，都不是完全可怕的。“你有消息吗？”

As she walked into the room, Narcissa's eyes flicked almost imperceptibly between Lucius’ hand on Hermione's hip and his face. He kept his hand in place, a conscious commitment to what had been an accident. He could feel Hermione itching to move away from his touch in the presence of Narcissa and gave her a subtle squeeze to tell her to stay still.
当她走进房间时，纳西莎的眼睛几乎难以察觉地在卢修斯放在赫敏臀部的手和他的脸之间来回扫视。他把手放在原地，有意识地致力于这场事故。他能感觉到赫敏在纳西莎面前痒痒地想离开他的触摸，轻轻地捏了捏她，让她别动。

"You have a grandson, Lucius."
“你有个孙子，卢修斯。”

An unrestrained gasp of delight from Hermione drew the eyes of both Malfoys, one pair fond and the other cold. She twisted her body to look at Lucius over her shoulder and placed her hand over his on her hip, seemingly forgetting, in her excitement, her reticence to hint at any kind of closeness in front of his ex-wife. 
赫敏肆无忌惮地欢呼着，吸引了马尔福两人的目光，一对喜欢，另一对冷漠。她扭动身体，转头看向卢修斯，将手放在他的臀部上，似乎在兴奋中忘记了她在前妻面前暗示任何亲密的沉默。

"Oh, congratulations, Lucius," she said, her eyes gleaming. "That's wonderful news!"
“哦，恭喜你，卢修斯，”她说，她的眼睛闪闪发光。“这真是个好消息！”

Relief flooded through Lucius with enough force to make him dizzy and he squeezed Hermione even more tightly. It must have gone smoothly. A grandchild, presumably healthy. Not just a grandchild, a grand son to carry on the Malfoy name. 
卢修斯如释重负，力量足以让他头晕目眩，他把赫敏捏得更紧了。它一定很顺利。一个孙子，大概很健康。不仅仅是一个孙子，一个继承马尔福名字的孙子。

"He arrived in the last hour," Narcissa continued, a flutter of her eyelashes the only sign that she had heard Hermione. "Eight pounds and screaming. Draco wished for you to know."
“他在最后一个小时到了，”纳西莎继续说道，睫毛一甩是她听到赫敏声音的唯一迹象。“八磅重，尖叫着。德拉科希望你知道。

It was a dull, overcast day and Narcissa stood just outside the circle of light from the fire but, as he peered at her through the dim, Lucius thought she looked unusually pale, her tone oddly flat as she delivered the good news.
那是一个沉闷阴沉的日子，纳西莎站在火堆的光圈外，但当他透过昏暗的灯光凝视着她时，卢修斯觉得她看起来异常苍白，在传达这个好消息时，她的语气出奇地平淡。

It was possible that Hermione also sensed something was not quite right because, quite abruptly, she turned to face him, pushing his hand away, and said, "I should go."  
赫敏可能也感觉到有些不太对劲，因为她突然转过身来面对他，推开他的手，说：“我应该走了。

"You don’t have to –" 
“你不必——”

"No, no." She shook her head, stepping away from him. "I have a dinner I promised I’d be at and you –" Hermione glanced to the side and lowered her voice slightly. "You should both have this moment. Without me here."
“不，不。”她摇了摇头，从他身边走开。“我有个晚饭，我答应过我会去的，而你——”赫敏看了一眼一边，稍微压低了声音。“你们俩都应该有这一刻。没有我在这里。

Reluctantly, Lucius nodded but not before she reached out to squeeze his hand comfortingly as she left his side. Hermione rounded the table towards the fire, passing Narcissa. Still not entirely sure how she was supposed to address the former Malfoy matriarch, Hermione hesitated, her mouth half open and her eyes questioning.
卢修斯不情愿地点了点头，但在她离开他的身边时，她伸出手安慰地握住了他的手。赫敏绕过桌子走向火堆，经过纳西莎身边。赫敏仍然不完全确定她应该如何称呼这位前马尔福女族长，她犹豫了，半张着嘴，眼神里带着疑问。

“Ms Black, Miss Granger,” Narcissa offered tersely. “Just say Ms Black.”
“布莱克女士，格兰杰小姐，”纳西莎简洁地说。“就说布莱克女士。”

“I, er –” Lucius looked on with disbelief as Hermione ducked her head like she was considering curtseying to Narcissa and snorted softly when she clearly seized hold of her senses and straightened her spine. “Bye, Ms Black. Congratulations.” 
“我，呃——”卢修斯难以置信地看着赫敏低下头，仿佛正在考虑向纳西莎行屈膝礼，当她显然抓住了自己的理智并挺直了脊椎时，她轻轻地哼了一声。“再见，布莱克女士。祝贺你。

With one last smile in his direction, Hermione grabbed a handful of Floo Powder and threw it in the fire. Just as Hermione disappeared in a swirl of green flames, Narcissa cleared her throat, drawing Lucius' attention back to her. 
赫敏朝他的方向最后一个微笑，抓起一把飞路粉扔进了火里。就在赫敏消失在绿色火焰的漩涡中时，纳西莎清了清嗓子，将卢修斯的注意力重新吸引到她身上。

"Astoria’s condition is delicate," Narcissa said, like she was pointing out that it had just started raining. "She’ll be staying in St Mungo’s for a few nights longer. I’ve come to fetch her some additional nightgowns and home comforts."
“阿斯托利亚的情况很微妙，”纳西莎说，就像她在指出刚刚开始下雨一样。“她会在 St Mungo's 多住几晚。我来给她拿一些额外的睡衣和家居用品。

Lucius frowned, blinking rapidly as he struggled to process what he'd heard. "You said –"
卢修斯皱起眉头，在他努力消化他所听到的内容时迅速眨了眨眼。“你说——”

"I said as much as I’d say in front of anyone who is not family and therefore shouldn't be privy to our private business."
“我说了多少，就当着任何不是家人的人说的话，因此不应该参与我们的私人事务。”

"Hermione is –"
“赫敏是——”

"Not family," she finished for him, a faint waver in her cold voice.
“不是家人，”她替他说完，冰冷的声音中带着淡淡的颤抖。

Lucius swallowed, his concern overtaking his irritation. "Will Astoria recover?"
卢修斯咽了口口水，他的担忧压倒了他的恼怒。“阿斯托利亚会恢复吗？”

"The Healers are certainly very optimistic," Narcissa said, nodding. "Though they say a return to full strength is unlikely, or at least a long while off. The blood curse is proving…complicated for them." She clasped her hands in front of her belly. "The baby is very well."
“治疗师们肯定非常乐观，”纳西莎点点头说。“尽管他们说不太可能恢复全部实力，或者至少需要很长一段时间。血诅咒正在证明......对他们来说很复杂。她双手紧握在肚子前。“孩子很好。”

Lucius drew a hand down his face, exhaling his relief. "And Draco? Is Draco – how is he?"
卢修斯用一只手抚摸着他的脸，松了一口气。“德拉科呢？是德拉科吗——他怎么样？

"He is…" Narcissa drew back her shoulders, looking off to the side. "He is as you always were. He will be fine."
“他是......”纳西莎缩回肩膀，望向侧面。“他和你一样。他会没事的。

Memories bombarded Lucius. Private healers coming to the manor; conversations he hadn't been prepared to have; holding Narcissa's clammy hands; brushing her soft hair from her sweat-coated forehead; hoping against hope. Through everything he had displayed stoicism. He had not been fine.
回忆轰炸着卢修斯。来到庄园的私人治疗师;他没有准备好进行的对话;握着纳西莎湿漉漉的手;拂去她被汗水覆盖的额头上柔软的头发;希望与希望相悖。他通过所做的一切表现出坚忍不拔。他一直不太好。

"I want to speak to him."
“我想和他谈谈。”

"You can’t do that, Lucius," Narcissa reminded him, a hint of impatience in her voice. "And he won’t leave her; just as you wouldn’t have."
“你不能那样做，卢修斯，”纳西莎提醒他，她的声音里带着一丝不耐烦。“他不会离开她的;就像你不会的一样。

"Then let me write to him." Lucius began rifling through the parchment on Hermione's desk, grabbing a blank sheet and a battered quill. He glanced up at Narcissa. "Will you take it?"
“那我就写信给他吧。”卢修斯开始翻阅赫敏桌上的羊皮纸，抓起一张空白的纸和一支破旧的羽毛笔。他抬头看了一眼纳西莎。“你会接受吗？”

The look she gave him as he bent over the desk clutching the quill was inscrutable. Finally, she said, "I’ll go and fetch Astoria’s things. Make sure you’re finished when I return."
当他弯下腰，紧握着羽毛笔时，她给他的眼神令人难以捉摸。最后，她说，“我去拿阿斯托利亚的东西。我回来时你肯定已经完成了。

Lucius was seated, still scribbling furiously when Narcissa re-entered the library. He didn't look up when he heard her heels clicking across the floor, or when she stopped beside him. It was only when she gently touched her fingers to the back of his clenched fist that he allowed himself to pause, letting out the breath he’d been holding as he felt her press down.
卢修斯坐着，当纳西莎再次进入图书馆时，他还在疯狂地涂鸦。当他听到她的高跟鞋在地板上发出咔哒声时，或者当她停在他身边时，他没有抬头。只有当她轻轻地将手指碰到他紧握的拳头背时，他才让自己停下来，吐出他一直憋着的呼吸，因为他感觉到她压了下来。

"He will be fine," she said, her voice the softest he had heard it in a long time. "They will be fine."
“他会没事的，”她说，她的声音是他很久以来听到的最轻柔的声音。“他们会没事的。”

Clearing his throat, Lucius didn't move his hand from beneath hers but carried on writing, allowing her to read over his shoulder as he did so. When he placed the quill down, she drew back, silent and watchful as he sprinkled sand over the parchment.
清了清嗓子，卢修斯没有把手从她的手下移开，而是继续写字，让她在他这样做的时候从他的肩膀上读出来。当他放下羽毛笔时，她向后退去，静静地看着他把沙子洒在羊皮纸上。

"We have a grandchild," Lucius finally said, his voice crackling from lack of use as he folded the letter into a neat square.
“我们有一个孙子，”卢修斯终于说了，他的声音因为没有用过而噼里啪啦地响着，他把信折成一个整齐的正方形。

Narcissa hummed thoughtfully from her place by his chair, lifting her gaze to the fire. "I always pictured this moment differently."
纳西莎在椅子旁若有所思地哼了一声，抬起头看向火堆。“我总是以不同的方式描绘这一刻。”

"As did I."
“我也是。”

Tearing her eyes away from the dancing fire, Narcissa looked down at Lucius. "I didn’t count on you having acquired another child, for one thing."
纳西莎将目光从跳舞的火焰上移开，低头看着卢修斯。“我没指望你又生了一个孩子，一方面。”

Eyes snapping to hers, Lucius said "Narcissa", the warning in his tone making her roll her eyes.
卢修斯的眼睛猛地盯着她，说“纳西莎”，他语气中的警告让她翻了个白眼。

"Oh, allow me my snipes, Lucius," she said, nudging his shoulder. "You always enjoyed them when they weren’t directed at you."
“哦，让我狙击吧，卢修斯，”她说，轻推着他的肩膀。“当它们不是针对你的时候，你总是喜欢它们。”

"It’s not about her youth," he said gazing up at her. "Do me the credit of believing that."
“这与她的年轻无关，”他抬头凝视着她说。“相信这一点值得称赞。”

Narcissa exhaled sharply through her nose, crossing her arms. "I know it isn’t Lucius," she snapped. "But it’s easier for me to pretend it is, so would you let me?"
纳西莎交叉着双臂，从鼻子里猛地呼出一口气。“我知道那不是卢修斯，”她厉声说。“但我更容易假装它，所以你让我吗？”

Lucius opened his mouth like he might argue but there was a weariness in Narcissa's expression that made him settle on a quiet nod instead. Picking up the note to Draco, he held it out to her.
卢修斯张大了嘴巴，就像他可能会争论一样，但纳西莎的表情中带着一种疲惫，这让他决定安静地点点头。他把纸条捡给德拉科，递给她。

"She’s not going anywhere, is she?" Narcissa asked, taking the note and holding it delicately between her fingers like a clutch bag.
“她哪儿也不去，对吧？”纳西莎问道，接过纸条，像手拿包一样小心翼翼地把它放在手指之间。

Lucius pushed himself to his feet with a sigh and turned to his ex-wife, now looking down at her. "I hope not." 
卢修斯叹了口气，站起来，转向他的前妻，现在正低头看着她。“我希望不会。”

"Sabine has just accosted me in the corridor to tell me that I’m not to scare her off."
“Sabine 刚刚在走廊里跟我搭讪，告诉我我不要吓跑她。”

Lucius could not help but wince in sympathy as he pushed the chair tightly under the desk and rested his hands on its back. "She and Sabine have formed a…curious bond. It's none of my doing."
卢修斯不禁同情地皱起了眉头，他把椅子紧紧地推到桌子下面，双手放在椅子的背上。“她和萨宾已经形成了一个......好奇的邦德。这不是我做的。

"I never liked Sabine," Narcissa mused. "She always liked you too much." Her eyes slid to his and something like a smile twitched around her perfectly painted lips. He found himself returning it. 
“我从来就不喜欢萨宾，”纳西莎若有所思地说。“她总是太喜欢你了。”她的眼睛滑向他，在她完美绘制的嘴唇周围抽搐着微笑。他发现自己把钱还了。

There was a pause before Narcissa added in a distinctly more brisk tone, "But Draco told me the same thing."
停顿了一会儿，纳西莎用明显更轻快的语气补充道，“但德拉科对我说了同样的事情。

"He did?"
“他知道吗？”

"Yes. At breakfast. He was quite…insistent." Pursing her lips, Narcissa straightened her posture like she was attempting to shake off the sense of injustice that came with being reprimanded by one's own child. "I don’t think he’s ever been so firm with me. I would have been quite proud of him if it’d been over anything else."
“是的。早餐时。他相当......坚持。纳西莎抿着嘴唇，挺直了姿势，仿佛她正试图摆脱被自己的孩子训斥所带来的不公正感。“我认为他从来没有对我如此坚定。如果不是其他任何事情，我会为他感到骄傲。

"He has grown into a fine man," Lucius said quietly, looking towards the fire like he might be able to see through it to Draco. "We should be proud."
“他已经长成了一个好人，”卢修斯轻声说，望向火堆，仿佛他能看穿德拉科。“我们应该感到自豪。”

"Well, you would say that when he’s on your side," Narcissa responded acidly, making Lucius snort and turn back to her.
“嗯，当他站在你这边时，你会这么说的，”纳西莎酸溜溜地回答，让卢修斯哼了一声，转身看向她。

"Have Draco and Astoria settled on a name?” he asked. Draco had been oddly secretive over the matter and Lucius had decided very quickly that it was not worth pushing.
“德拉科和阿斯托利亚已经确定好名字了吗？”德拉科在这件事上一直奇怪地保密，卢修斯很快就决定不值得催促。

“No,” Narcissa responded, a slight frown telling Lucius that she had experienced the same guardedness. “Though Scorpius was mentioned in an… ahem , overheard conversation.” Giving him a sidelong look, she said, “Scorpius Lucius Malfoy.”
“没有，”纳西莎回答道，微微皱眉告诉卢修斯，她也经历过同样的警惕。“虽然斯科皮在......咳咳，无意中听到的对话。她侧头看了他一眼，说：“斯科皮·卢修斯·马尔福。

A pleasant heat settled on Lucius’ chest, like a satisfied cat had curled up on him. “A good name.”
一股令人愉悦的热气落在卢修斯的胸口，就像一只满足的猫蜷缩在他身上一样。“好名字。”

A noncommittal noise from Narcissa made Lucius raise his eyebrows and turn his head fractionally in her direction. “Isn’t it funny how easily mothers and grandmothers can just disappear in these things?” she asked without expectation of an answer, staring into the fire again.
纳西莎不置可否的声音让卢修斯扬起眉毛，微微转头看向她的方向。“妈妈和祖母竟然这么容易就消失在这些东西中，这不是很有趣吗？”她问道，不期待得到回答，再次凝视着火堆。

“I get the feeling Draco would like this child to know nothing but love,” Lucius said to her profile, watching the light of the fire dance across her pale skin. “You'll leave an indelible mark in that respect, I'm sure. You always have."
“我能感觉到德拉科希望这个孩子只懂爱，”卢修斯对着她的个人资料说，看着火光在她苍白的皮肤上跳舞。“我敢肯定，你会在这方面留下不可磨灭的印记。你总是这样。

Narcissa laughed once through her nose, her eyes briefly falling closed before she turned to him fully. Half of her face was still illuminated by the fire, while the other half was pale and cold in the dim light of the wider room.
纳西莎从鼻子里笑了一下，她的眼睛短暂地闭上了，然后完全转向他。她的一半脸还被火光照亮，而另一半在更宽阔的房间昏暗的灯光下显得苍白而冰冷。

His note in one hand, Narcissa raised the other to Lucius’ face and gently brushed her thumb along the corner of his lips, like she might be able to smooth away the tight worry that had formed there. Her touch did not, however, do that anymore and he felt a tension settle in his shoulders.
纳西莎一只手拿着纸条，另一只手举到卢修斯的脸上，用拇指轻轻地抚摸着他的唇角，仿佛她或许能抚平那里形成的紧绷的担忧。然而，她的触摸不再起作用了，他感到肩膀上一阵紧张。

Tilting her head, Narcissa gave him a look that mixed understanding and pity. “I forgot how saccharine you can be when you’re falling in love.” 
纳西莎歪着头，看了他一眼，眼神中夹杂着理解和怜悯。“我忘了当你坠入爱河时，你可以有多甜。”

With that, Narcissa lightly tapped his face with her palm, making him blink, and, before Lucius could protest, she turned on her heel and swept towards the door. “I will send news as soon as I have it,” she said over her shoulder. “And a reply from Draco.”
说完，纳西莎用手掌轻轻地拍了敲他的脸，让他眨了眨眼，然后，在卢修斯还没来得及抗议之前，她就转过身来，朝门口扫去。“我一有消息就送来，”她转过头说。“还有Draco的回复。”

Warmth and the comforting smell of a roasting chicken greeted Hermione as she walked through the door to the Potters’ kitchen. The Potters themselves were preparing food at a counter. At least, Ginny was, as far as Hermione could tell. Harry, on the other hand, stood behind his wife, his arms circling her and his face nuzzling into the side of her neck in a way that was making her squirm and giggle.
温暖和烤鸡的舒适气味在赫敏走进波特家厨房的门时向她打招呼。波特夫妇自己也在柜台前准备食物。至少，在赫敏看来，金妮是这样。另一方面，哈利站在妻子身后，双臂环抱着她，他的脸贴在她的脖子上，让她扭动着，咯咯地笑着。

“In the absence of cake,” Hermione announced loudly, holding her arms wide to display the bottles she carried in each hand, “I’ve brought two bottles of wine.”
“没有蛋糕，”赫敏大声宣布，张开双臂展示她两手拿着的瓶子，“我带来了两瓶酒。

Harry leaped away from Ginny like he’d been burned, letting out a strangled cry of greeting as he turned to face the door. Hermione responded to his sheepish grin with a knowing raise of her eyebrows as he approached to take the bottles of wine from her.
哈利像被烧伤一样从金妮身边跳开，转身面对门口，发出一声令人窒息的问候。赫敏回应了他害羞的笑容，当他走上前去从她手中拿走酒瓶时，她会心地扬起了眉毛。

“Thank you,” he said, retreating with the wine in search of a bottle opener. “Gin’s drinking again so I think this will be just about enough.”
“谢谢你，”他说，拿着酒退去寻找开瓶器。“杜松子酒又喝了，所以我认为这已经足够了。”

“Shut it you,” Ginny snapped at Harry on her way to hook her arms around Hermione in a tight hug. Laughing, Hermione returned the embrace, lifting her chin to escape the lengths of red hair that were threatening to go in her mouth and up her nose. 
“闭嘴，你，”金妮对哈利厉声说，她紧紧地搂住了赫敏。赫敏笑着回应了这个拥抱，抬起下巴，以躲避那些威胁要进入她嘴里和鼻子的红发。

“Oh, I am so glad to see you!” said Ginny, drawing back so that she could inspect Hermione properly, wearing an expression that was highly reminiscent of Molly. “Are you okay?” She lifted a hand to Hermione’s cheek. “You’re looking in far better spirits tonight.”
“哦，我很高兴见到你，”金妮说，向后退了一步，以便她能好好检查赫敏，她的表情很容易让人想起莫莉。“你还好吗？”她抬起一只手放在赫敏的脸颊上。“你今晚看起来精神好多了。”

Hermione allowed Ginny’s motherly attention to melt her slightly and placed a hand over Ginny’s. “I’m fine ,” she said gently. “I was fine last night, too. Just tired.”
赫敏让金妮的母性关注稍微融化了她，然后把手放在金妮的手上。“我很好，”她温柔地说。“我昨晚也很好。只是累了。

Ginny searched Hermione’s face for a moment before making a quiet, unconvinced humming noise and returning to the kitchen counter. “I was so worried when you didn’t show up,” she chided, picking up a sharp knife to resume chopping vegetables for a salad. “You should have owled or something.”
金妮在赫敏的脸上打量了一会儿，然后发出一声轻声的、不服气的哼唱声，然后回到厨房的柜台前。“你没出现，我真担心，”她斥责道，拿起一把锋利的刀继续切菜做沙拉。“你应该是猫头鹰什么的。”

Sighing, Hermione crossed the kitchen to lean against the kitchen counter opposite Ginny. “I’m sorry. I didn’t want you to worry. I just wanted to thank Lucius for organising that whole thing and I was –”
赫敏叹了口气，穿过厨房，靠在金妮对面的厨房柜台上。“对不起。我不想让你担心。我只是想感谢 Lucius 组织了整件事，而我就是——”

“No, Harry told me,” Ginny said, pausing in her food preparation to accept a glass of wine from her husband with a distracted smile. “You stayed at Malfoy Manor.”
“没有，哈利告诉我的，”金妮说，她停下来准备食物，带着心不在焉的笑容接过丈夫的一杯酒。“你住在马尔福庄园。”

As he approached to hand her a full glass of wine, Hermione noticed that Harry didn’t quite meet her eyes and she frowned as she lifted the glass to her lips to take a large gulp. “The chicken smells good!” she offered brightly. 
当他走上前递给她一整杯酒时，赫敏注意到哈利并没有完全与她的眼睛对上，她皱着眉头，将杯子举到嘴边，大口大口地喝了一口。“这只鸡闻起来很香！”

“Hopefully it won’t be burnt to a crisp by the time Ron decides to show his face,” Ginny said, glancing up at a clock on the wall as she sliced a cucumber with especial force. “Where the hell is he?”
“希望在罗恩决定露脸的时候，它不会被烧得酥脆，”金妮说，一边抬头看了一眼墙上的时钟，一边用特别的力气切黄瓜。“他他妈在哪儿？”

“Never said anything to me,” Harry said as deposited a basket of bread rolls on the dining table and dropped into a seat. “He’ll probably be here any minute.”
“从来没有对我说过什么，”哈利说着，把一篮面包卷放在餐桌上，坐进了座位上。“他可能随时都会在这里。”

Grumbling, Ginny quietly chopped the cucumber for another minute or so before clearing her throat. “Nice of the Malfoys to have a room for you,” she said over her shoulder, continuing a line of conversation Hermione had hoped to end. “I mean, it’s not like they lack the space but still...they’re not renowned sharers, are they?”
金妮抱怨着，悄悄地又把黄瓜切了一分钟左右，然后清了清嗓子。“马尔福家能给你一个房间真好，”她转过头说，继续赫敏希望结束的一连串对话。“我的意思是，这并不是说他们缺乏空间，但仍然......他们不是著名的分享者，对吧？

Lifting her wine to her lips, Hermione made a noncommittal sound into the glass. Lucius had placed her in her own room at one point. It wouldn’t be lying to make it seem like they had a room for her at the manor. Did it really matter that she hadn’t slept in it the night before?
赫敏把酒举到嘴边，对着玻璃杯发出了不置可否的声音。卢修斯曾一度把她放在自己的房间里。让他们觉得庄园里有个房间给她看，这可不是在撒谎。她前一天晚上没睡真的重要吗？

“I’m surprised you wanted to stay though,” said Ginny, pulling a box of tomatoes across the countertop. “You seemed…off before we left. It’s why I thought you might prefer to be here. Especially with Narcissa Malfoy being there.”
“不过，我很惊讶你想留下来，”金妮说，一边在台面上拉着一盒西红柿。“你看起来......在我们离开之前离开。这就是为什么我认为你可能更喜欢在这里。尤其是纳西莎·马尔福在那儿的时候。

“Why…” Hermione’s gaze slid to Harry, who chose that moment to take an overly long drink. “Why would her being there bother me?”
“为什么......”赫敏的目光滑向哈利，哈利选择在那个时刻喝了一杯。“她为什么在那儿会打扰我？”

“I saw you talking to her and she had her usual… glacial aura,” Ginny said, pausing in her chopping to give Hermione a conspiratorial smile over her shoulder. “I was worried she might have said something to you to put a dampener on your night.”
“我看到你和她说话，她有她平常的......冰冷的光环，“金妮说，在她的劈砍中停顿了一下，在她的肩膀上给了赫敏一个阴谋般的微笑。“我担心她可能会对你说了什么，让你的夜晚变得闷闷不乐。”

“No, I – she didn’t bother me,” Hermione said, the pace of her heartbeat increasing from a trot to a gallop. “We barely spoke.”
“不，我——她没有打扰我，”赫敏说，她的心跳速度从小跑变成了疾驰。“我们几乎没有说话。”

“I get the impression she wouldn’t need many words to ruin a night,” Ginny muttered.
“我感觉她不需要很多话就能毁掉一个夜晚，”金妮咕哝道。

“Ginny,” Harry said, warning in his tone. “Don’t forget what she did –”
“金妮，”哈利说，语气中带着警告。“别忘了她做了什么——”

“I know, I know,” said Ginny and Hermione could practically hear the roll of her eyes. “She wasn’t very happy though, was she? Did you hear her talking about her divorce? Nearly bit that poor bloke’s head off.”
“我知道，我知道，”金妮说，赫敏几乎能听到她翻白眼的声音。“不过她不是很开心，对吧？你听过她谈论离婚吗？差点把那个可怜的家伙的头咬掉了。

“She was just telling people?” Hermione asked, aghast. After Lucius had been so keen to keep it quiet. Undoubtedly they had had words about it when Narcissa had gone to him. That went some way to explaining his mood when Hermione had gotten to him that night. Had it actually been a good idea to leave them in the Manor to come to the dinner?
“她只是在告诉人们？”赫敏惊恐地问。在卢修斯如此热衷于保持沉默之后。毫无疑问，当纳西莎去找他时，他们已经说过这件事了。这在某种程度上解释了他那天晚上赫敏来找他的心情。把他们留在庄园来参加晚宴真的是个好主意吗？

Ginny and Harry glanced at one another and Ginny, placing her knife down, turned to Hermione and crossed her arms. “You knew?” she asked. “No one else seemed to have heard a thing about it.”
金妮和哈利互相看了一眼，金妮放下刀，转向赫敏，交叉着双臂。“你知道吗？”“其他人似乎都没有听说过这件事。”

“I…” Hermione looked down into her wine. “Well, I found out sort of by accident ages ago.” She shook her head, remembering the unpleasantness of that day. “It was a whole thing and, honestly, I’d rather not go into it.”
“我......”赫敏低头看着她的酒。“嗯，我很久以前就知道了。”她摇摇头，想起那天的不愉快。“这是一整件事，老实说，我宁愿不去深入研究。”

“Ages ago?” Ginny asked, incredulous. ”And you didn’t tell us?”
“很久以前？”金妮难以置信地问道。“你没告诉我们吗？”

Frowning, Hermione looked up at her. “It wasn’t really any of my business in the first place.”
赫敏皱着眉头，抬头看着她。“这本来就不关我的事。”

Eyebrows raised, Ginny turned back to the counter and scooped a handful of chopped vegetables into a large bowl. “I don't know if I would keep secrets for Lucius Malfoy, Hermione.” She picked up the knife again and placed another tomato on the chopping board. “He might get the wrong idea.”
金妮扬起眉毛，转身回到柜台前，把一把切碎的蔬菜舀进一个大碗里。“我不知道我是否会为卢修斯·马尔福保守秘密，赫敏。”她再次拿起刀，在砧板上放了另一个西红柿。“他可能会想错主意。”

“The wrong idea about what?” Hermione asked, unable to keep a touch of sharpness out of her voice. “I wasn't keeping his secret, anyway; I was letting his private business be just that.”
“关于什么的错误想法？”赫敏问道，她的声音里忍不住有一丝尖锐。“反正我没有保守他的秘密;我让他的私人生意就这样。

“Yes, but he might see it as –”
“是的，但他可能会把它看作是——”

“No more talk of the Malfoys,” Harry interrupted loudly from his seat, his eyes darting between Hermione's deepening frown and Ginny’s rising shoulders. “Hermione, I told Ginny you’re coming back to the Ministry.”
“别再提马尔福家了，”哈利从座位上大声打断，他的眼睛在赫敏加深的眉头和金妮抬起的肩膀之间来回扫视。“赫敏，我告诉金妮你要回魔法部了。”

“Yes!” Ginny exclaimed, her voice sounding overly bright. “Tell us everything.”
“是的！”金妮惊呼道，她的声音听起来过于明亮。“告诉我们一切。”

Attempting to settle the roiling in her belly, Hermione took a moment to take another sip of her wine before answering. 
赫敏试图平息肚子里的翻腾，她花了一点时间又喝了一口酒，然后回答道。

“I am. Kingsley asked me to come back to take a look through a bunch of the old pro-Pure-blood laws to start making things fairer. I’ll be redrafting most, maybe overturning some; that kind of thing. I’ll be coming in as part of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement.”
“我是。金斯利让我回来看看一堆旧的亲纯血统法律，以开始让事情变得更公平。我会重新起草大部分，也许会推翻一些;诸如此类的事情。我将作为魔法执法部的一员进来。

“Bloody hell, Hermione,” Harry said, looking impressed. “That’s big.”
“的地狱，赫敏，”哈利说，看起来印象深刻。“好大。”

“It’s huge!” Ginny agreed enthusiastically. “But he couldn’t have picked anyone better – no one will be fairer than you. And you and Harry will get to work more closely together since you’ll be back in DMLE. It's perfect, you get him out of his habit of working through lunch.”
“好大啊！”金妮热情地同意了。“但他挑选的人再好不过了——没有人会比你更公平。 自从您将回到 DMLE 以来，您和 Harry 将可以更紧密地合作。这太完美了，你让他摆脱了吃午饭时工作的习惯。

“Well, I’ll definitely try to help with that,” Hermione said with a warm smile in Harry’s direction. “But I’ll be working directly with Lucius Malfoy on the project itself so I’ll only be in and out of the Ministry.”
“嗯，我肯定会试着帮忙的，”赫敏朝哈利的方向带着温暖的微笑说。“但我会直接与卢修斯·马尔福合作处理这个项目本身，所以我只会进出魔法部。”

Ginny’s knife skidded across the chopping board with a loud squeak just as the kitchen door swung open and a rosy-cheeked, red-eared Ron waltzed into the room wearing a wide grin.
金妮的刀在砧板上滑过，发出一声响亮的吱吱声，这时厨房的门打开了，脸颊红润、耳红的罗恩带着灿烂的笑容跳着华尔兹走进了房间。

“Sorry I’m late,” Ron said, oblivious to the tension into which he’d walked, shrugging off his jacket. “I was at the pub with Neville, Luna and Parkinson.” Ron grabbed a bread roll from the table and tore into it with his teeth. 
“对不起，我来晚了，”罗恩说，完全没有注意到他走过时的紧张情绪，耸了耸肩。“我和内维尔、卢娜和帕金森一起在酒吧。”罗恩从桌子上抓起一个面包卷，用牙齿撕了进去。

“Tell you what,” he continued through a mouthful of bread. “Parkinson is actually kind of funny. Totally different from the way Luna is funny, obviously – she was saying some mad stuff tonight, by the way – but definitely funny. I reckon Malfoy held her back at school."
“告诉你什么，”他继续吃了一口面包。“帕金森其实有点有趣。显然，这与 Luna 的搞笑方式完全不同——顺便说一句，她今晚说了一些疯狂的话——但绝对有趣。我估计马尔福在学校里拖了她的后腿。

Ron collapsed into a chair beside Harry at the dining table, clutching his bread roll. As he looked at them all in turn, his chewing slowed. “What? What’s happened?”
罗恩瘫倒在餐桌旁哈利旁边的椅子上，手里攥着他的面包卷。当他依次看着他们所有人时，他的咀嚼速度变慢了。“什么？发生了什么事？

“Hermione was just telling us she’s going back to the Ministry,” Harry said faintly, rubbing a tight circle on his temple with his fore and middle fingers.
“赫敏只是告诉我们她要回魔法部去了，”哈利淡淡地说，用食指和中指在他的太阳穴上划了一个紧紧的圆圈。

“Brilliant!” Ron cried, holding his bread aloft in celebration. “Can’t believe Kingsley finally managed to convince you. He’s been angling at that for ages, hasn’t he?” 
“太棒了！”罗恩喊道，高举着他的面包庆祝。“真不敢相信金斯利终于说服了你。他已经为此烦恼了很久了，不是吗？

“Mmm,” Ginny said, slowly turning to look at Hermione, leaning on the counter. “She’s going to be re-working a bunch of pro-Pure-blood laws for DMLE.”
“嗯，”金妮说，慢慢地转过身来看着靠在柜台上的赫敏。“她将为 DMLE 重新制定一堆支持纯血统的法律。”

Puffing out a gust of impressed air, Ron gave Hermione a proud look. “That’s one hell of a job for one person, Hermione,” he said. “But Kingsley always did think a lot –”
罗恩吐出一股印象深刻的空气，骄傲地看了赫敏一眼。“赫敏，对一个人来说，这真是一件地狱般的工作，”他说。“但金斯利总是想很多——”

“It’s not a job for one person,” Ginny said. “Apparently.”
“这不是一个人的工作，”金妮说。“显然。”

Ron’s face fell slightly. “Oh?”
罗恩的脸色微微一沉。“哦？”

All three turned to look expectantly at Hermione whose cheeks were almost painfully warm. “Kingsley and I agreed that I should work on the project with a Pure-blood,” she said, a hint of defensiveness creeping into her voice. “To avoid any accusations of bias.”
三个人都转过头来，期待地看着赫敏，她的脸颊几乎温暖得令人痛苦。“金斯利和我同意我应该和一个纯血统的人一起做这个项目，”她说，她的声音里带着一丝防御。“为了避免任何偏见的指责。”

“Who’zat then?” Ron asked, frowning as he took another bite of bread.
“那是谁？”罗恩问道，他皱着眉头又咬了一口面包。

“Lucius Malfoy.” 
“卢修斯·马尔福。”

Ron froze mid-chew. “Oh,” he said, muffled by the bread. He, Harry and Ginny all shared a meaningful look, then, swallowing his food, Ron cleared his throat and looked around the table. “Any wine?”
罗恩在咀嚼中愣住了。“哦，”他说，被面包压得闷闷不乐。他、哈利和金妮都意味深长地看了一眼，然后，罗恩吞下了他的食物，清了清嗓子，环顾了一下桌子。“有酒吗？”

Springing to life and seemingly glad of something to do, Harry lunged for the bottle and started pouring Ron a generous glass while Hermione looked between her three friends in turn, perplexed.
哈利活了过来，似乎很高兴能做点什么，他冲向瓶子，开始给罗恩倒一大杯，而赫敏则困惑地轮流看着她的三个朋友。

“What was that look?” she asked, waving a pointed finger at them.
“那是什么眼神？” 她问道，一边向他们挥舞着一根尖锐的手指。

“Nothing,” said Harry immediately. 
“没什么，”哈利立刻说。

“There was no look,” Ron said after taking a large swig from his glass.
“没看，”罗恩从杯子里喝了一大口后说。

“There bloody was,” Hermione insisted.
“那儿血腥，”赫敏坚持说。

Both Harry and Ron looked towards Ginny, who pursed her lips hesitantly. “That’s…don’t you think that’s a pretty surprising thing for Lucius Malfoy to want to do?”
哈利和罗恩都看向金妮，金妮犹豫地抿了抿嘴唇。“那是......你不觉得卢修斯·马尔福想这么做是一件相当令人惊讶的事情吗？

Shrugging, Hermione said, “I made him see the sense of it. Besides, he knows it’ll help his case with the Wizengamot if he’s seen to be doing things like this – things to show he’s making changes."
赫敏耸耸肩说，“我让他明白了。此外，他知道如果有人看到他正在做这样的事情——表明他正在做出改变，那会对他与威森加摩的案子有所帮助。

“Even so,” said Ginny.
“即便如此，”金妮说。

“Even so…what?”
“即便如此......什么？

“Well, he’s just…he’s not exactly likely to make it the easiest job in the world, is he?” Ginny asked. “If you needed Pure-bloods to help you with this, couldn’t you have asked me or Ron? We’d be happy to do it.”
“嗯，他只是......他不可能把这当作世界上最轻松的工作，对吧？金妮问道。“如果你需要纯血统来帮你，你就不能问我或罗恩吗？我们很乐意这样做。

Ron nodded enthusiastically to show his willingness to help. “No,” Hermione said, growing frustrated. “The whole point is that he won’t make it easy. We need the differing  perspectives.” 
罗恩热情地点头，表示他愿意提供帮助。“不，”赫敏说，越来越沮丧。“关键是他不会让事情变得容易。我们需要不同的观点。

“Hermione,” Harry said, his voice gentle like he was afraid of provoking her ire. “Have you stopped to think about other reasons Malfoy might have for doing this?”
“赫敏，”哈利说，他的声音很温柔，就像他害怕惹怒她一样。“你有没有停下来想一想马尔福做这件事的其他原因？”

Setting her wine glass on the kitchen counter with a loud clack , Hermione crossed her arms over her middle. “It certainly sounds like you have.”
赫敏把酒杯放在厨房的柜台上，咔嚓一声，双臂交叉在她的中间。“听起来你肯定有。”

Glancing anxiously at Ron and Ginny, Harry placed his own glass down carefully. “Okay, look,” he said, holding up his hands.  “We don’t want to freak you out or anything. It’s just, we’ve been talking, y’know – all of us, and Neville, and Luna –”
哈利焦急地瞥了一眼罗恩和金妮，小心翼翼地把自己的杯子放下。“好吧，你看，”他举起双手说。“我们不想吓到你或做任何事情。只是，我们一直在说话，你知道的——我们所有人，还有纳威，还有卢娜——”

“About?” Hermione asked, her voice measured while her heart cantered against her ribs.
“大约？”赫敏问道，她的声音很谨慎，她的心脏在她的肋骨上慢跑。

“About Malfoy and the time you’ve been spending with him.”
“关于马尔福和你和他在一起的时光。”

“I see.” Her heart had grown so loud, she was beginning to suspect it had journeyed up between her ears and replaced her brain.  
“我明白了。”她的心跳变得如此响亮，她开始怀疑它已经从她的耳朵之间爬上来，取代了她的大脑。

“It’s been a while now,” Harry continued. “Clearly he’s gotten over your whole…being a Muggleborn thing but you’ve been getting to know him in pretty unusual circumstances, haven’t you? He’s been locked up a long time – divorced, apparently. For months you’ve been his main company apart from his son –”
“已经有一段时间了，”哈利继续说。“显然，他已经控制了你的整个......你是个麻瓜出身的人，但你一直在非常不寻常的情况下了解他，不是吗？他被关了很久——显然是离婚了。几个月来，除了他的儿子之外，你一直是他的主要伙伴——”

“And you’ve being pretty fucking kind when he doesn’t deserve it,” Ginny piped up. “Neville told us about the plant you took him and you’re going to all this effort to help him get free –”
“而且你他妈的还挺善良的，当他不配的时候，”金妮哼哼哼唧。“纳威告诉我们你带走了他那棵植物的事，你要尽一切努力帮助他获得自由——”

“Plus, Ginny said you said he apologised to you –” added Ron, looking back at his sister who nodded vigorously.
“另外，金妮说你说他向你道歉了——”罗恩补充道，回头看向他的妹妹，她用力地点了点头。

“And he lets you use his library so you’re there even more –” Harry said.
“而且他让你使用他的图书馆，这样你就可以在那里呆得更久了——”哈利说。

“And that party last night!” Ron cried. “I mean, that was something else. It –"
“还有昨晚的那个派对！”罗恩喊道。“我的意思是，那是另一回事。它——”

“And you’ve got a great arse,” interjected Ginny, extending her hands to Hermione admiringly. “Fantastic, actually.”
“而且你的屁股真棒，”金妮插嘴说，钦佩地向赫敏伸出手。“实际上，太棒了。”

“And now this,” Harry finished, weakly. “Maybe when all this started he wanted his freedom but…well, do you think it could be something else now?”
“现在这个，”哈利虚弱地说完。“也许当这一切开始时，他想要他的自由，但是......嗯，你觉得现在可能是别的东西吗？

“Like?”
“比如？”

“Don’t you think he could be, y’know, into you?”
“你知道，你不觉得他会喜欢你吗？”

“Luna said love tonight, y’know,” Ron said in an undertone.
“露娜今晚说了爱，你知道的，”罗恩低声说。

“Don’t be ridiculous,” Ginny snapped at the top of her brother’s head. “We agreed he’s probably just trying to put his end away so it doesn’t fall off from lack of use. What the hell does Luna know?”
“别荒谬，”金妮对着她哥哥的头顶吼道。“我们一致认为他可能只是想把他的一端收起来，这样它就不会因为缺乏使用而脱落。露娜他妈知道什么？

“You know what she’s like, she has a real sense for stuff.”
“你知道她是什么样的人，她对事物有真正的感觉。”

Ginny scoffed and rolled her eyes. “We just want you to be on your guard, Hermione. Be more careful. We don’t want him to start thinking he’s, like, entitled to you or something, it’s –”
金妮嘲笑着翻了个白眼。“我们只是希望你保持警惕，赫敏。要多加小心。我们不希望他开始认为他有资格拥有你或其他什么，这是——”

As her friends had been speaking, cutting across one another, Hermione’s shoulders had started shaking until, finally, a loud burst of laughter escaped her, cutting Ginny off. Curling into herself, Hermione trembled and leaned back against the counter for support, seemingly unable to stop. The idea that they were arguing over whether or not Lucius might find her attractive – the suggestion that she should be wary of that – was just too much. 
当她的朋友们互相交谈时，赫敏的肩膀开始颤抖，直到最后，她发出一阵大笑，打断了金妮。赫敏蜷缩着身体，颤抖着向后靠在柜台上寻求支撑，似乎停不下来。他们争论 Lucius 是否会觉得她有吸引力——建议她应该警惕这一点——实在是太过分了。

She didn’t know how she and Lucius’ relationship would go but she knew she could be working with him for months, even years, on this project. Would her friends be watching her with furrowed brows and worried eyes for that entire period? Continuously talking to one another and her, convinced their covert observations somehow gave them true insight into what was happening? It would drive her mad.
她不知道她和 Lucius 的关系会如何发展，但她知道她可以在这个项目上与他合作数月，甚至数年。她的朋友们会不会在整个时期都皱着眉头和担忧的眼神看着她？不断地与彼此和她交谈，相信他们的秘密观察以某种方式让他们真正了解发生了什么？这会让她发疯。

What else could she expect, however, when she didn’t tell them the truth? What else could they do?
然而，当她不告诉他们真相时，她还能期待什么呢？他们还能做什么呢？

“Hermione, what –”
“赫敏，什么——”

“D’you know what?” Hermione said, wiping tears of mirth from the corners of her eyes as she straightened up to look at Ron, Ginny and Harry. “I hope he does.”
“你知道吗？”赫敏说，擦去眼角的泪水，直起身来看着罗恩、金妮和哈利。“我希望他能。”

“What?”
“什么？”

“I hope he does !” she said, laughing more faintly and shrugging helplessly. “I hope he does love me.”
“我希望他能！”她说，笑得更微弱了，无奈地耸了耸肩。“我希望他真的爱我。”

Several beats of stunned silence met her declaration and not a single, even faintly bemused smile. Then, a deep furrow forming in his brow, Ron said, “That’s a bit sadistic, Hermione. The bloke is absolutely the worst, no doubt about it, but to actually try to have him fall –”
她的宣言中响起了几声震惊的沉默，没有一个，甚至是微弱的困惑的微笑。然后，罗恩的眉头上皱起了眉头，他说，“这有点虐待狂，赫敏。毫无疑问，这个家伙绝对是最糟糕的，但居然要让他摔倒——”

Stepping forward, Ginny placed a hand on Ron’s shoulder to stop him mid-sentence. Her eyes were fixed on Hermione, piercing. “I don’t think that's not what she means, Ron.”
金妮向前走，将一只手放在罗恩的肩膀上，阻止了他的话。她的眼睛盯着赫敏，目不转睛。“我不认为她不是这个意思，罗恩。”

Looking up at Ginny and then at Hermione, Ron made a face like they had just asked him to recite the five exceptions to Gamp's Law of Elemental Transfiguration. “Well, what does she mean? What do you mean, Hermione?”
罗恩抬头看了看金妮，又看了看赫敏，做了个鬼脸，就像他们刚刚让他背诵甘普元素变形定律的五个例外一样。“嗯，她是什么意思？你什么意思，赫敏？

Ignoring Ron, Ginny addressed Hermione, “You don’t want Malfoy to love you because it’d be bad for him, do you?”
金妮无视罗恩，对赫敏说：“你不想让马尔福爱你，因为那对他不好，对吧？

“Hermione?” Ron asked.
“赫敏？”罗恩问道。

Ginny’s face was solemn and pale as she waited for a response. The smile that had spread across Hermione’s face suddenly trembled and began to crumble in on itself until it was more of a grimace. The tears of laughter that had gathered in her eyes became harder to contain, rising as they were from a new, far more sorrowful source. 
金妮的脸色严肃而苍白，等待着回应。赫敏脸上蔓延的笑容突然颤抖起来，开始自行崩溃，直到它更像是一个鬼脸。她眼中聚集的笑泪变得更加难以控制，它们来自一个新的、更悲惨的来源。

It was the end of the line, really, wasn’t it? It had to come out because the secrecy was not just increasingly untenable, it was unbearable. That realisation didn't make telling them any less terrifying.
这是线路的尽头，真的，不是吗？它必须被公之于众，因为这种秘密不仅越来越站不住脚，而且令人难以忍受。这种认识并没有使告诉他们变得不那么可怕。

“Please don’t hate me,” she said, her voice thickening with emotion. “Please.” 
“请不要恨我，”她说，她的声音因情绪而变得沉重。“求你。”

“Hermione,” Harry said, sitting forward like he was considering rising out of his seat. “What have you done?
“赫敏，”哈利说，身体向前坐，就像他正在考虑从座位上站起来一样。“你做了什么？

Drawing in a sharp breath, Hermione roughly wiped her eyes, bringing their perplexed faces into clearer focus. “I – he – we –” She sniffed, her frustration at her inability to articulate making her tip her head back, her eyes falling closed. “I don’t know how to explain ,” she said to the ceiling. “I mean, you are right: he does like me. I know he does.”
赫敏猛地吸了一口气，粗暴地擦了擦眼睛，让他们困惑的脸更清晰地聚焦起来。“我——他——我们——”她吸了吸鼻子，她对自己无法表达的挫败感使她把头向后仰，闭上了眼睛。“我不知道怎么解释，”她对着天花板说。“我的意思是，你是对的：他确实喜欢我。我知道他会。

“You like him too, don’t you, Hermione,” Harry said, his voice soft, an almost pitying edge to it that Hermione wanted to run far away. “That’s what you mean.”
“你也喜欢他，不是吗，赫敏，”哈利说，他的声音很轻柔，赫敏想跑得很远，几乎是可怜的一丝。“你就是这个意思。”

It was Ron’s turn to bark out a laugh. “Don’t be so bloody stupid, Harry,” he said. “Obviously she doesn’t. Right, Hermione?”
轮到罗恩大笑起来了。“别那么的蠢，哈利，”他说。“显然她没有。对吧，赫敏？

Bottom lip trembling, Hermione finally lowered her chin to look at them all in turn. Both Ginny and Harry were thin-lipped, though the tilt of Harry's brow was far more sympathetic than his wife's. Ron's mouth was simply hanging open in anticipation of a denial that was never going to come.
下唇颤抖着，赫敏终于低下了下巴，依次看着他们所有人。金妮和哈利都嘴唇薄薄的，尽管哈利的眉头歪歪比他妻子的要同情得多。罗恩只是张大了嘴巴，期待着永远不会到来的否认。

"You were upset by Narcissa Malfoy last night, weren’t you?" Ginny asked. "Is that why?"
“你昨晚被纳西莎·马尔福惹恼了，不是吗？”金妮问道。“是为什么吗？”

"I didn’t want to hide anything from you," Hermione said, the words she hadn't been able to find suddenly tumbling out in a rush. "It…we just…happened and, honestly, I didn’t even want to –"
“我不想对你隐瞒什么，”赫敏说，她没能找到的词突然匆匆忙忙地涌了出来。“它......我们只是......发生了，老实说，我什至不想——”

"Did he force you?" Ginny asked, her voice sharp and rising.
“是他强迫你的吗？”金妮问道，她的声音尖锐而高亢。

"No!" Hermione shook her head vigorously. "No, that’s not what I mean." She inhaled deeply, desperately trying to calm down. "I just…I didn’t expect him to be so …" 
“不！”赫敏用力摇摇头。“不，我不是这个意思。”她深吸一口气，拼命试图冷静下来。“我只是......我没想到他会这样......”

The room was so quiet as she searched for the words that Harry, Ginny and Ron might have been holding a collective breath. 
房间里非常安静，她寻找着哈利、金妮和罗恩可能一直在屏住呼吸的词语。

"I didn't expect him to be so much of what I want." 
“我没想到他会成为我想要的那种人。”

"He’s…" Ron audibly gulped down what might have been horror as realisation set in. "Hermione, he’s Malfoy. You want Malfoy ?" Ron laughed and it was high with disbelief. "Not just Malfoy – he’s the Malfoy. He’s evil . We all know he’s evil." He looked around at Ginny and Harry for support but they both appeared pained and gave no answer. "I don’t understand."
“他......”罗恩大口大口地吞下了可能是恐惧的东西，因为他意识到了这一点。“赫敏，他是马尔福。你想要马尔福吗？罗恩笑了起来，难以置信。“不仅仅是马尔福——他就是马尔福。他很邪恶。我们都知道他是邪恶的。他环顾四周，向金妮和哈利寻求支持，但他们都显得很痛苦，没有回答。“我不明白。”

"A lot has changed for everyone since the end of the war, Ron," Hermione said, wiping her nose. "And he’s –"
“自从战争结束以来，每个人都发生了很多变化，罗恩，”赫敏擦着鼻子说。“而他——”

"Had a complete personality swap?" Ron demanded. "Travelled from another dimension where he’s not been an arsehole forever?"
“有没有完全的人格互换？”罗恩质问道。“从另一个维度旅行过来，他不是永远都是个屁眼？”

"No," Hermione said, trying to keep her voice level. "He’s just…I told you that the interviews I do are intimate experiences in their own ways and things…" Hermione shrugged, sighing at the wholly inadequate summation she was going to give. "Things changed. It’s not about Death Eaters, or Muggleborns or school houses. We’re just…people." 
“不，”赫敏说，努力保持声音平稳。“他只是......我告诉过你，我做的采访都是以自己的方式和事物进行的亲密体验......”赫敏耸耸肩，为她要给出的完全不充分的总结叹了口气。“事情变了。这与食死徒、麻瓜出身者或学校无关。我们只是......人。

"Just people," Ron repeated, flat and disbelieving.
“就是人，”罗恩重复道，平淡而难以置信。

"He knows he was wrong. He does."
“他知道自己错了。他确实如此。

"He has a heart," Harry said quietly, more to himself than anyone else. When he felt the incredulous stare of Ginny land on him, he sat up straight and gestured to Hermione. "She said it to me once, it was –"
“他有心，”哈利轻声说，比任何人都对自己说。当他感觉到金妮难以置信的目光落在他身上时，他坐直了身子，向赫敏做了个手势。“她曾经对我说过，是——”

"Intimate experiences," Ron murmured to himself, leaning his head in his hands as he repeated Hermione’s words. " Intimate ."
“亲密的经历，”罗恩喃喃自语，双手抱着头，重复着赫敏的话。“亲密。”

"How intimate?" Ginny asked boldly, her shoulders squared as though she was steeling herself for the worst possible answer. 
“有多亲密？”金妮大胆地问道，她的肩膀挺直了，仿佛她正在为最坏的答案做准备。

"Ginny, please," Harry begged, looking mildly queasy as he eyed Hermione's increasingly pink cheeks. They were enough of an answer for everyone.
“金妮，求你了，”哈利恳求道，看着赫敏越来越红的脸颊，看起来有点恶心。他们已经足够给每个人答案了。

Ron moaned like a wounded animal and reached for the wine, his expression morose as he re-filled his glass.
罗恩像一只受伤的动物一样呻吟着，伸手去拿酒，当他重新斟满酒杯时，他的表情闷闷不乐。

"I said you were glowing that day," Ginny said, a triumphant gleam in her eye. "I said it," she insisted to a bewildered Harry before turning back to Hermione. "I mean, I thought it was a positive thing then but that day with Malfoy in your flat, I said and you deni–"
“我说过你那天发光，”金妮说，眼中闪过胜利的光芒。“我说了，”她对困惑的哈利坚持说，然后转身看向赫敏。“我是说，我当时觉得这是一件好事，但那天马尔福在你的公寓里，我说了，你否认——”

"I couldn’t tell you anything, Ginny," Hermione said, a plea for understanding in her voice. "I just couldn’t. Malfoy didn’t know then and –"
“我什么都不能告诉你，金妮，”赫敏说，她的声音里带着对理解的恳求。“我就是做不到。马尔福当时不知道，而且——”

"He knows now?"
“他现在知道了？”

"Lucius had to tell him. He sort of figured it out."
“卢修斯不得不告诉他。他差不多想通了。

"And he’s just fine with it?" Ron asked after taking a long drink of wine. "What, already calling you stepmummy dearest, is he?"
“他就这么好吗？”罗恩在喝了一大口酒后问道。“什么，他已经叫你最亲爱的继母了，是吗？”

The mockery in Ron's tone made Hermione clench her fists. "He’s been incredibly understanding and accepting, actually, which is what I would ideally like to see from all my friends."
罗恩语气中的嘲讽让赫敏握紧了拳头。“实际上，他一直非常理解和接受，这就是我希望从我所有的朋友那里看到的。”

"Well, ideally we’d like our friend to tell us about something this fucking big without trying to hide it for an age first," Ginny snapped, making Hermione draw back.
“嗯，理想情况下，我们希望我们的朋友能告诉我们这么他妈的事情，而不是先试图隐瞒它很久，”金妮厉声说，让赫敏缩了回去。

"I was worried about what you’d say," she said. "What you’d think. I thought – honestly, I thought you might not want to see me anymore."
“我很担心你会说什么，”她说。“你会怎么想的。我想——老实说，我想你可能不想再见我了。

"You thought," Ginny said slowly, her eyes narrowing, "that after everything we’ve been through together –  all the things we’ve done for each other – we’d just…get rid of you because you have extraordinarily questionable taste in men?"
“你以为，”金妮缓缓地说，她的眼睛眯起，“在我们一起经历了一切之后——我们彼此做了所有的事情——我们就会......因为你对男人的品味特别可疑就把你除掉？

"Hey –" Ron started, before Ginny gave him a murderous look which silenced him.
“嘿——”罗恩开始说话，然后金妮杀气腾腾地瞪了他一眼，让他沉默了下来。

"No, I –"
“不，我——”

"Maybe you’ve forgotten, what with all the time you’ve been spending with them, but we’re a little bit less fickle than Malfoys, Hermione. We just want you to be safe," Ginny said, the sharp snap of her tone making Hermione feel anything but. 
“也许你忘了，你花了这么多时间陪他们，但我们比马尔福少了一点善变，赫敏。我们只是希望你安全，“金妮说，她尖锐的语气让赫敏什么都感觉不到。

"And happy," Harry added more gently.
“而且很高兴，”哈利更温和地补充道。

"I am."
“我是。”

"Well…" Ginny's aggression seemed to burn itself out the longer she looked at Hermione's glistening eyes. "Good."
“嗯......”金妮的咄咄逼人似乎随着她看着赫敏闪闪发光的眼睛的时间越长而耗尽。“很好。”

"Because we’ll kill him if that ever changes," Harry said, picking up some of the anger his wife had dropped. "I swear, Hermione, I will."
“因为如果情况改变的话，我们会杀了他，”哈利说，捡起了他妻子已经放下的一些怒气。“我发誓，赫敏，我会的。”

A heavy, awkward silence fell but, within it, ever so slowly, Hermione started to find it easier to breathe, even though she had the sense that the three of them were sneaking glances at her rather than directly looking at her.
沉重而尴尬的寂静降临了，但在沉默中，赫敏开始发现呼吸变得更容易了，尽管她感觉到他们三个人在偷偷地瞥她一眼，而不是直接看着她。

"Dad’s going to die when he finds out," Ron finally said, staring into his wine like he was thinking about drowning himself in it. "You’re like his daughter, Hermione. This will kill him."
“爸爸知道了会死的，”罗恩终于说，盯着他的酒，仿佛在想把自己淹死在里面。“你就像他的女儿，赫敏。这会杀了他。

Rolling her eyes, Hermione said, "Your father is a reasonable, sensible man, Ron. He's already asked me about Lucius, so he’s hardly going to –"
赫敏翻了个白眼，说：“你爸爸是个通情达理、懂事的人，罗恩。他已经问过我关于卢修斯的事情了，所以他几乎不会——”

"No, this might actually kill him," said Ginny. "And mum."
“不，这真的可能会要了他的命，”金妮说。“还有妈妈。”

Hermione looked back and forth between the grim-faced Weasleys. "Alright, well, maybe we just won’t tell them for a while. Okay?" When they didn't reply she raised her voice. " Okay ?"
赫敏在面色阴沉的韦斯莱夫妇之间来回打量。“好吧，好吧，也许我们暂时不会告诉他们。好吗？当他们没有回答时，她提高了声音。“好吗？”

Ron gazed over at her from where he had slumped down in his chair, wearing a dazed expression. "What are you like around him?"
罗恩瘫坐在椅子上，一脸茫然地看着她。“你在他身边是什么样的？”

"What are you talking about?" Hermione asked, crossing her arms and frowning. "I’m me."
“你在说什么？”赫敏问道，交叉双臂，皱着眉头。“我就是我。”

"And he’s fine with that?" Ron asked doubtfully. "He lets you be all…?" Ron waved a hand vaguely in the direction of Hermione's tense posture like that was sufficient explanation. 
“他没事吗？”罗恩疑惑地问。“他让你成为一切......？”罗恩含糊地朝赫敏紧张的姿势的方向挥了挥手，仿佛这已经足够解释了。

"He just doesn’t seem like the type with the patience for it. I mean…” Ron looked around at Harry and Ginny. "Am I wrong? He’s probably flung a killing curse for an undercooked potato and Hermione isn’t exactly easygoing…"
“他看起来不像是那种有耐心的人。我的意思是......”罗恩环顾四周，看着哈利和金妮。“我错了吗？他可能为了一个没煮熟的土豆而甩出了杀戮诅咒，而赫敏也不是很随和......”

Sensing the end of her tether approaching rather quickly, Hermione pressed her lips together in an attempt to exercise control over herself. It was a failure. "He likes me to be worked up, actually," she said with vindictive relish. "And when he really wants to get me going, there’s this thing he does with his tongue that—"
赫敏感觉到她的束缚的末端很快就要接近了，她紧紧地抿着嘴唇，试图控制自己。这是一次失败。“实际上，他喜欢我激动起来，”她报复性地津津有味地说。“当他真的想让我走的时候，他会用他的舌头做这样的事情——”

"STOP!" Ron roared while Ginny squealed and danced in a circle on the spot, looking both thrilled by Hermione’s daring and disgusted by what she was saying. 
“住手！”罗恩咆哮着，而金妮则尖叫着，当场围成一圈跳舞，看起来既为赫敏的大胆而激动，又为她所说的话感到厌恶。

"The kids!" Harry cried with a panicked glance up at the ceiling. 
“孩子们！”哈利惊慌失措地抬头看了一眼天花板，喊道。

Abruptly they all fell silent and copied Harry, staring at the ceiling with breath held, listening for the slightest sign that they'd disturbed James or Albus. When no noise came, Hermione let out a quiet relieved exhale and looked around her friends. 
突然，他们都沉默了下来，模仿着哈利，屏住呼吸盯着天花板，听着他们打扰了詹姆斯或阿不思的丝毫迹象。当没有声音传来时，赫敏轻声松了一口气，环顾了一下她的朋友们。

"I’m sorry. I really am."
“对不起。我真的是。

"Well, maybe we’re sorry that you ever felt like you couldn’t tell us," Ginny said, frowning. "I mean, sure, we hate him but we love you."
“嗯，也许我们很抱歉你曾经觉得你不能告诉我们，”金妮皱着眉头说。“我的意思是，当然，我们恨他，但我们爱你。”

"We probably should stop saying we hate him," Harry suggested. 
“我们可能应该停止说我们恨他，”哈利建议道。

"Can we think it?" Ron grumbled. "He's done fuck all that's nice for us." 
“我们能想到吗？”罗恩抱怨道。“他他妈的已经完成了所有对我们有益的事情。”

Sighing, Hermione shook her head and rubbed her eyes with her forefinger and thumb. "I can hardly stop you," she said. 
赫敏叹了口气，摇了摇头，用食指和拇指揉了揉眼睛。“我几乎无法阻止你，”她说。

"Does this mean he’s going to have to start, like, coming to stuff?" Ron asked, his lip curling with distaste. "Do we have to hang around with him?"
“这是否意味着他将不得不开始，比如，来做事？”罗恩问道，他的嘴唇因厌恶而卷曲。“我们得陪着他吗？”

"People don’t automatically become fused at the hip when they enter a relationship, Ron," Hermione snapped. "He'd probably rather not come to our pub trips, funnily enough."
“当人们进入一段关系时，他们不会自动地在臀部融合，罗恩，”赫敏厉声说。“他可能宁愿不来我们的酒吧旅行，真有趣。”

"A relationship," Ron muttered. "With Malfoy ." 
“一段关系，”罗恩咕哝道。“和马尔福一起。”

"And he can’t, anyway," Hermione added. "He’s under house arrest, remember, and he won’t get out before we see this project through."
“反正他不能，”赫敏补充道。“记住，他被软禁了，在我们完成这个项目之前，他不会出去。”

Colour coming back into his cheeks by degrees, Harry reached for his wine. "How long do you think it’ll take?"
他的脸颊上逐渐恢复了颜色，哈利伸手去拿他的酒。“你觉得这需要多长时间？”

"It could be a couple of years.” Her hands had stopped shaking enough that she felt comfortable picking up her own glass.
“可能需要几年。”她的手已经停止颤抖，以至于她觉得自己拿起杯子很舒服。

Harry exhaled and tipped his head consideringly. "Well, if he lasts that long working with you he’ll have earned his freedom."
哈利呼出一口气，若有所想地歪着头。“嗯，如果他能和你一起工作那么久，他就会赢得自由。”

"Shut it, you." Hermione sounded sharp but a tremulous grin slowly spread across her face, because if they were joking about it, it meant acceptance. Or a chance of it. A tentative, fluttering hope settled in her chest. "We’ll work it out. Kingsley still has a few things to lock down."
“闭嘴，你。”赫敏听起来很尖锐，但颤抖的笑容慢慢地在她的脸上蔓延开来，因为如果他们开玩笑，那就意味着接受。或者说有机会。她胸中燃起一股试探性的、飘动的希望。“我们会想办法的。金斯利还有一些事情需要锁定。

"Hermione," Ginny said softly, her gaze re-focusing on Hermione in a way that suggested she had briefly been lost in her own thoughts. "What’s he like with you ?"
“赫敏，”金妮轻声说，她的目光重新聚焦在赫敏身上，似乎她短暂地迷失在自己的思绪中。“他和你在一起怎么样？”

They all went quiet and looked at Hermione who felt like someone had just swung a very bright, hot and wholly unwelcome spotlight on her. 
他们都安静了下来，看着赫敏，赫敏感觉就像有人刚刚把一个非常明亮、炙热且完全不受欢迎的聚光灯照在她身上。

"I don’t know," she said, shrugging diffidently and looking down into the deep red of her wine like it might show her some kind of insightful vision of the Lucius she’d come to know.
“我不知道，”她说，含糊地耸了耸肩，低头看着她酒的深红色，仿佛它可能会向她展示她所认识的卢修斯的某种洞察力。

"He’s…interesting, intelligent, he wants to hear what I have to say. He respects me." Hermione looked up and found them still staring at her wide-eyed. "I mean, don't get me wrong, he can be a sarcastic prick and so bloody selfish. And stubborn . But when he cares, he really cares." A fond smile crept onto her face. "And he’s so funny sometimes." A soft laugh escaped her and she raised a hand to cover her mouth as she recalled some of his more ridiculous moments. "He doesn’t always mean it but he makes me laugh and –"
“他......有趣、聪明，他想听听我怎么说。他尊重我。赫敏抬起头，发现他们仍然瞪大了眼睛盯着她。“我的意思是，不要误会我的意思，他可能是一个讽刺性的刺，而且非常自私。而且固执。但当他在乎时，他真的很在乎。她的脸上悄悄地浮现出一个可爱的笑容。“他有时很有趣。”她轻声笑了起来，她抬起一只手捂住嘴巴，回忆起他一些更荒谬的时刻。“他并不总是认真的，但他让我发笑，而且——”

Remembering where she was and to whom she was speaking, Hermione cut herself off before her sentimentality could embarrass her any further, her ears and cheeks painfully warm.
赫敏想起了她在哪里，她在和谁说话，在她的多愁善感让她更加尴尬之前打断了自己，她的耳朵和脸颊温暖得令人痛苦。

"Merlin’s pants," Ron breathed, his face slack and his eyes wide.
“梅林的裤子，”罗恩喘着气，脸上松弛着，睁大了眼睛。

"Yep," Ginny said, looking like she didn't know whether to laugh or cry. "It's hopeless."
“是的，”金妮说，看起来她不知道该笑还是该哭。“这太绝望了。”

In the quiet that fell over them, Harry frowned and raised his nose into the air. “Can you smell burning?” he asked.
在笼罩他们的寂静中，哈利皱起眉头，把鼻子抬向空中。“你能闻到燃烧的味道吗？”

“The fucking chicken!” Ginny shrieked, snatching her wand out of her jeans pocket and pointing it at the oven. The door fell open with a clang and smoke billowed into the room, making them cover their mouths and squint their eyes as they coughed loudly. 
“那他妈的鸡！”金妮尖叫着，从牛仔裤口袋里掏出魔杖，指向烤箱。门哐当一声打开了，浓烟滚滚进入房间，让他们捂住嘴，眯起眼睛大声咳嗽。

The normality of the activities that followed felt almost like a dream to Hermione. Helping Ginny to salvage the chicken, grabbing cutlery, passing plates, serving the food – they were all things that would have happened if she hadn’t told them about Malfoy.
接下来的正常活动对赫敏来说几乎就像一场梦。帮助金妮抢救鸡，拿餐具，传递盘子，端上食物——如果她没有告诉他们关于马尔福的事情，这些事情都会发生。

But there was a friction underlying the friendly domesticity that made it hard for her to relax. Lucius was such an overhanging presence in the room, the empty chair at the table might as well have been filled by him. As they ate and talked, Hermione could feel Ron and Harry’s curious stares on her from across the table from time to time, while, beside her, Ginny barely looked at her at all. It was, Hermione reflected, Ginny’s feelings which concerned her most, particularly after their conversation with Draco.
但是，友好的家庭生活背后存在着摩擦，使她难以放松。卢修斯在房间里是一个悬而未决的存在，桌边的空椅子可能已经被他坐满了。他们吃饭聊天的时候，赫敏能感觉到罗恩和哈利不时从桌子对面好奇地注视着她，而在她旁边，金妮几乎什么也没看她。赫敏想，金妮的感受最让她担心，尤其是在他们和德拉科谈话之后。

When their plates were clear and it came time to open the second bottle of wine, Ginny said, “Hermione, I’m fine.” Finally, she turned to Hermione, looking both amused and exasperated. “I can feel you worrying in my direction.”
当他们的盘子收拾干净，该打开第二瓶酒时，金妮说：“赫敏，我没事。最后，她转向赫敏，看起来既好笑又生气。“我能感觉到你在为我的方向担心。”

“I feel like I need to explain more –”
“我觉得我需要解释更多——”

“Look, we weren’t there for everything,” Ginny said, shrugging as she picked up her newly-filled wine. “And it’s true, you haven’t exactly been telling us things, so it might take us a while to wrap our heads around this.”
“你看，我们不是为了所有事情都在那儿，”金妮说，她耸了耸肩，拿起了她新装满的酒。“这是真的，你还没有完全告诉我们事情，所以我们可能需要一段时间才能弄清楚这一点。”

“We will try though,” Harry said, meeting Hermione’s eyes as he leaned over the table to top up her glass.
“不过我们会试试，”哈利说，与赫敏的眼睛对上，赫敏俯身在桌子上为她的杯子加满水。

“You understand why we’re so surprised, surely,” Ginny said, leaning back in her seat.
“你肯定明白我们为什么这么惊讶，”金妮说，向后靠在座位上。

“He’s so old,” Ron groaned into his palm, prodding at a chicken bone on his plate.
“他这么老了，”罗恩对着他的手掌呻吟着，戳了戳他盘子里的一根鸡骨头。

“And everything else,” Ginny said with a sharp look at her brother. “You went from fighting tooth and nail with the man to get him to cooperate to telling us he’s turned a new leaf. It’s a lot to process from the outside.”
“还有别的，”金妮狠狠地瞪了她哥哥一眼。“你从与那个人咬牙切齿地争吵让他合作，到告诉我们他已经翻开了新的一页。从外部来看，需要处理很多事情。

“I know he hurt you,” Hermione said. “I don’t want you to think that I don’t care about that because –”
“我知道他伤害了你，”赫敏说。“我不想让你觉得我不在乎那个，因为——”

“That has to be the past,” Ginny said firmly, her eyes meeting Harry’s across the table. “It’s what he does going forward that’s our biggest concern now.”
“那一定是过去了，”金妮坚定地说，她的眼睛对上了桌子对面的哈利。“他未来的所作所为是我们现在最大的担忧。”

“If he is changing –” Harry began.
“如果他要改变——”哈利开始说。

“I really think he is –” Hermione cut in earnestly.
“我真的觉得他是——”赫敏认真地打断道。

“Then I’m sure we have nothing to worry about.”
“那么我确定我们没有什么可担心的。”

Reaching out, Ginny placed a warm hand over Hermione’s and squeezed, a fierceness on her face that spoke to how much she cared and how truly willing she was to try. To her mortification, Hermione felt tears gathering in her eyes again and, blinking rapidly, she sniffed loudly in an attempt to stave them off. Though she was sure the abundance of wine she’d consumed had something to do with her heightened emotions, it was all rather overwhelming. 
金妮伸出手，将一只温暖的手放在赫敏的手上，捏了捏，她脸上的凶狠说明了她是多么在乎，她是多么真诚地愿意尝试。令她感到羞愧的是，赫敏感到泪水再次在眼眶中聚集，她迅速眨了眨眼，大声嗅了嗅，试图阻止它们。虽然她确信自己喝的大量葡萄酒与她高涨的情绪有关，但这一切都相当令人不知所措。

“So,” Ginny said, pausing to take a drink, meeting Hermione’s eyes over the rim of her glass. When she lowered it, there was a mischievousness in her expression that made Hermione nervous. “I’m guessing it must be true what they say about Slytherins?”
“所以，”金妮说，停下来喝了一杯，隔着玻璃杯的边缘与赫敏的眼睛相遇。当她放下它时，她的表情中带着一种调皮的神情，让赫敏感到紧张。“我猜他们说的斯莱特林一定是真的吧？”

“I don’t…” Hermione glanced around at Ron and Harry who were looking curiously at Ginny. “What do they say?”
“我不......”赫敏环顾四周，看了一眼罗恩和哈利，他们正好奇地看着金妮。“他们怎么说？”

“Well,” Ginny began, her tone businesslike as she carefully set her glass down and lifted her hands to make an approximate measurement. “They say they have massive –”
“嗯，”金妮开始说，她的语气很公事公办，她小心翼翼地放下酒杯，抬起双手做了一个大概的测量。“他们说他们有大量的——”

A loud clatter signalled Ron’s wine glass toppling over, sending a stream of wine across the polished wooden table and their empty plates. Ginny and Hermione cried out, pushing themselves back from the table to avoid the red drips threatening to fall into their laps. 
一声响亮的咔嚓声表明罗恩的酒杯翻了个底朝天，一股酒流过了抛光的木桌和空盘子。金妮和赫敏大声喊道，把自己从桌子上往后推，以免红珠有可能掉进他们的腿上。

“Ron!” Ginny snapped, glaring at her brother who scowled straight back, his ears scarlet.  
“罗恩！”金妮厉声瞪着她的哥哥，他直接皱起眉头，耳朵绯红。

“If you dare to finish that sentence, Ginny, I swear I’ll do so much worse.”
“如果你敢把那句话说完，金妮，我发誓我会做得更糟。”

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

A big chapter and I really hope I didn't fuck it up or disappoint anyone. As I was writing it just felt right in its direction and didn't seem to want to go any other way but yeah...Thank you all so much for your support! x
一个很大的章节，我真的希望我没有搞砸或让任何人失望。当我在写作时，它只是感觉它的方向是正确的，似乎不想走任何其他路，但是，是的......非常感谢大家的支持！x

Chapter 38
第三十八章Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione and Lucius begin working together in earnest and find it has its ups and downs.
赫敏和卢修斯开始认真合作，发现它有起有落。

Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾August 13th 
八月 13th

 

“Ugh.”
“呃。”

Lucius blinked down at the book in his lap, his concentration broken. Clearing his throat, he shifted in his seat and attempted to find his way back through the dense paragraph he’d been reading. The typescript was so tiny and smudged he rather felt like he was attempting to make sense of wet tar.
卢修斯对着他腿上的书眨了眨眼，他的注意力被打断了。清了清嗓子，他在座位上挪动了一下，试图在他一直在阅读的那段密集的段落中找到回去的路。打字稿又小又脏，他宁愿觉得自己在试图理解湿焦油。

A snort followed by another “ugh” prompted him to lift his head, a muscle in his jaw jumping in time with a pop in the roaring fire across from him. Placing a finger on the last word he’d managed to focus on, he turned to look at Hermione who was curled up on the other end of his study sofa, a heavy tome in her own lap. 
一声哼哼，紧接着又是一声“呃”，他抬起头，下巴上的一块肌肉及时跳动，在他对面咆哮的火焰中啪啪作响。他把手指放在他设法集中注意力的最后一个词上，转身看向蜷缩在书房沙发另一端的赫敏，她自己的腿上放着一本沉重的书。

It was clear from the way she was twirling a curl between her fingers and chewing at her lip that she was entirely lost in what she was reading. Another guttural noise of what sounded like disgust made him close his eyes momentarily. 
从她在手指之间旋转卷曲和咀嚼嘴唇的方式可以清楚地看出，她完全沉浸在她正在阅读的内容中。另一声听起来像是厌恶的喉音使他暂时闭上了眼睛。

“Hermione,” he began, even a soft spoken word making her jump as it disrupted her focus. “Permit me to suggest…putting words to your frustration?”
“赫敏，”他开始说，即使是一个轻声细语也让她跳了起来，因为它打乱了她的注意力。“请允许我建议......用语言来表达你的挫败感吗？

Using her hand as a bookmark, Hermione gave him a befuddled blink that distinctly asked him what had possessed him to interrupt her reading. “Am I making noise?”
赫敏用她的手当书签，困惑地眨了眨眼，显然是在问他是什么让他打断了她的阅读。“我在发出声音吗？”

“Often,” he said lightly. 
“经常，”他淡淡地说。

“Oh.” Her lips twisted with an apologetic grimace. “Sorry, that always drove Harry and Ron mad, too. It’s just –” She cast an offended eye down at the legal book in her lap. “Ugh, honestly, it’s just that some of these laws are utterly absurd . There are exemptions from taxes listed here that no one even pays anymore. Worse, there are exemptions from taxes that everyone should pay, regardless of their blood status. I don’t know how they’ve wrangled some of these.”
“哦。”她的嘴唇扭曲着，露出一个歉意的鬼脸。“对不起，这也总是让哈利和罗恩发疯。只是——“她低头看了一眼腿上的法律书。“呃，老实说，只是其中一些法律是完全荒谬的。这里列出了一些免税，甚至没有人再支付。更糟糕的是，每个人都应该缴纳免税，无论他们的血统如何。我不知道他们是怎么解决其中一些的。

Eyebrows raised, Lucius inclined his head to indicate that he was listening but kept his mouth firmly shut. He was, after all, actively using some of those exemptions as they sat there. But it wasn’t like he’d asked for them. 
卢修斯扬起眉毛，歪着头表示他在听，但还是牢牢地闭上了嘴。毕竟，当他们坐在那里时，他正在积极使用其中一些豁免。但这不像是他要求的。

He liked to think he had always been a notoriously generous donator instead. Truly, he found donating far more gratifying – generally it meant choosing exactly what his money was spent on and being able to demand that his name be engraved/carved/mounted on it. Unfortunately, he had a strong suspicion that vanity projects which were, deep down, for no one but himself weren't going to fly with Hermione. 
他喜欢认为自己一直是一个出了名的慷慨捐助者。确实，他发现捐赠要令人满意得多——通常这意味着准确地选择他的钱花在什么地方，并能够要求将他的名字刻在上面/雕刻/装裱在上面。不幸的是，他强烈怀疑，在内心深处，除了他自己之外，没有人会和赫敏一起飞翔的虚荣心。

“And I mean, look at this!” Swinging her legs down, Hermione shuffled over the sofa and curled up right beside him with the open book angled towards him in her lap. She jabbed her finger at the page and Lucius leaned over to her, squinting to read the text. “Pure-bloods can hunt Muggles and Muggle-borns as long as it’s on their private land according to this,” she explained, her lip curled with disgust. “Clearly some kind of intruder loophole and it’s never been overturned.”
“我的意思是，看看这个！”赫敏双腿往下摆动，在沙发上拖着脚步，蜷缩在他身边，打开的书在她的腿上斜对着他。她用手指戳了戳书页，卢修斯靠向她，眯着眼睛看课文。“根据这个规定，纯血统的人可以猎杀麻瓜和麻瓜出身的人，只要是在他们的私人土地上，”她解释道，她的嘴唇因厌恶而卷曲。“显然是某种入侵者的漏洞，而且从未被推翻。”

“That is rather…”
“那是......”

“Barbaric?” she spat, glaring down at the page of the book like it had personally attempted to hunt her. “Disgusting. Utterly Medieval ?”
“野蛮？”她啐了一口，低头瞪着书页，仿佛它亲自试图猎杀她。“恶心。完全是中世纪的吗？

Peering more closely at the page, Lucius said, “I think it may actually be Medieval in origin, Hermione.” 
卢修斯更仔细地盯着那页，说道，“我觉得它实际上可能起源于中世纪，赫敏。

Pausing, she looked up at him from the pages. “Did your family ever hunt Muggles?”
停顿了一下，她从书页上抬头看着他。“你家猎杀过麻瓜吗？”

Raising his eyebrows, Lucius tipped his head back against the sofa thoughtfully. “Certainly not in my lifetime. My great grandfather got rid of the stables and the horses with them and I would imagine it’d be rather laborious to –” He caught sight of Hermione’s mouth hanging open out of the corner of his eye and immediately retreated to the safety of monosyllables. “No.”
卢修斯扬起眉毛，若有所思地把头靠在沙发上。“当然不会在我的有生之年。我的曾祖父把马厩和马都带走了，我想这要是相当费力的——“他看到赫敏的嘴巴从眼角的余光中张开，立即退到单音节的安全处。“不。”

Eyeing him with disgust for a moment, she flicked the page over and directed his attention to a different paragraph. “Even worse, look at this,” she said. It was, Lucius surmised after a quick skim, an addendum that had been added thirty years after the initial law’s passing. “The right to claim the property of the hunted if they have no heirs,” she said, her voice rising with disbelief. “I mean, honestly!”
她厌恶地盯着他看了一会儿，然后翻了翻那页，把他的注意力引向了另一段。“更糟糕的是，看看这个，”她说。卢修斯快速浏览了一会儿后推测，这是在最初的法律通过三十年后添加的附录。“如果被猎杀的人没有继承人，他们有权要求他们的财产，”她说，她的声音因难以置信而提高。“我是说，老实说！”

“Mm…” Lucius agreed. Turning back to his own book, he flicked the page over with a flourish of his forefinger. “By the by,” he said, all affected nonchalance. “Do you own any property that is in any way valuable and, as a completely unrelated aside, are you a fast runner?”
“嗯......”卢修斯同意。他转回自己的书前，用食指轻弹着书页。“对了，”他说，所有人都表现出了冷漠。“你是否拥有任何有价值的财产，而且，完全无关，你是一个跑得快的人吗？”

“That’s not funny.”
“这可不好笑。”

“It is.”
“是的。”

“I hope all of the laws are so obviously disgusting,” Hermione said, dropping her shoulder and head against his arm as she scowled down at the book. “It’ll make our job much easier.”
“我希望所有的法律都这么明显地令人作呕，”赫敏说，一边把肩膀和头靠在他的手臂上，一边皱着眉头看着这本书。“这将使我们的工作轻松得多。”

“They won’t be,” he said. “Many of them will be more subtle.” 
“他们不会的，”他说。“他们中的许多人会更加微妙。”

Craning her neck, Hermione looked up at his profile, finding his expression troubled. “You seem very certain.”
赫敏伸长脖子，抬头看向他的侧影，发现他的表情很不安。“你看起来非常确定。”

“If you’re going to stamp on others, you had best make sure they either are or feel too powerless to stamp back,” he said before sighing softly through his nose and glancing down at her. "That requires at least a touch of sagacity.”
“如果你要踩踏别人，你最好确保他们要么是，要么是觉得无力回头，”他说，然后从鼻子里轻轻叹了口气，低头瞥了她一眼。“这至少需要一点智慧。”

“I suppose this is why it’s a good thing we’re working together,” she muttered, wiggling so that she could burrow further into him. Lifting an arm to let her, Lucius wrapped it around her shoulder and pulled her closer. “Rather have you with me than against me,” she added.
“我想这就是为什么我们一起工作是一件好事，”她咕哝着，扭动着身体以便能够更深入地钻入他。卢修斯抬起一只手臂让她走，把它搂在她的肩膀上，把她拉得更近了。“宁愿你和我在一起，也不愿反对我，”她又说。

A faint tapping, the sound of something sharp on glass, made them both still, ears straining for its source. While Hermione looked around them, Lucius looked directly over her head in the direction of the dark window behind his desk. Outside, an owl was attempting to get their attention, its large eyes bright in contrast with the night. 
一阵微弱的敲击声，什么尖锐的东西敲打玻璃的声音，使他们俩都静止了，耳朵紧紧地寻找它的来源。赫敏环顾四周，卢修斯直视着她的头顶，看向他桌子后面的黑暗窗户的方向。外面，一只猫头鹰正试图引起他们的注意，它的大眼睛与黑夜形成鲜明对比。

Following his gaze, Hermione yelped and, placing her book carefully to the side, leapt to her feet.
顺着他的目光，赫敏大叫了一声，小心翼翼地把书放在一边，跳了起来。

“Don’t tell me it’s the Weasley boy again ,” Lucius groaned, putting his own book aside to rise and follow her across the room.
“别再告诉我是那个韦斯莱男孩，”卢修斯呻吟着，把自己的书放在一边，站起来跟着她穿过房间。

Hermione grimaced as she closed the window behind the owl, which fluttered onto Lucius’ desk with a soft hoot. She rather hoped it wasn’t Ron for his own sake. 
赫敏愁眉苦脸地关上了猫头鹰身后的窗户，猫头鹰轻轻地吼了一声，飞到了卢修斯的桌子上。她宁愿这不是为了罗恩自己。

When she had told him as well as Ginny and Harry that she would be staying with Lucius for a few days while Draco remained with Astoria at the hospital, they had given her a politely supportive response. 
当她告诉他，还有金妮和哈利，她会和卢修斯住几天，而德拉科还在医院陪着阿斯托利亚时，他们礼貌地给了她一个支持性的回应。

In the days since, however, Ron – the friend who had once told her that letter writing ranked alongside feeding lettuce to flobberworms in a list of activities he enjoyed – had started what could only be described as a letter writing campaign. 
然而，在那之后的几天里，罗恩——那个曾经告诉她写信的朋友，在他喜欢的活动清单中，写信与喂生菜和蠕虫一样——开始了只能被描述为写信的活动。

Multiple owls a day had been bringing Hermione notes that were quite clearly attempts to check on her well being –  the last had come only an hour earlier and had simply been a scrap of parchment that read ‘alright?’. Hermione sensed Lucius had a growing desire to wring Ron’s neck. 
每天有好几只猫头鹰给赫敏带来笔记，这些笔记显然是想检查她的健康状况——最后一次只提前一个小时来了，只是一张写着“还好吗”的羊皮纸。赫敏感觉到卢修斯越来越想拧住罗恩的脖子。

“What exactly does he think is happening?” Lucius had snapped during breakfast when the first letter of that day had arrived. “Is he worried I’ve chained you to a wall and forced you to keep me company?”
“他到底觉得发生了什么？”卢修斯在吃早餐时，当那天的第一封信到来时，他吼了一声。“他担心我把你锁在墙上，强迫你陪着我吗？”

“I think his concern mostly stems from the fact that you haven’t done that, actually,” Hermione said lightly as she buttered her toast. “He’s just adjusting. They’ll stop.”  
“我觉得他的担心主要是因为你实际上没有那样做，”赫敏一边给吐司涂黄油，一边淡淡地说。“他只是在调整。他们会停下来的。

Though he had grumbled something about how the adjustment had better happen faster into his tea, Hermione knew that Lucius was pleased she had told her friends about them, even with Ron becoming a source of irritation.
虽然他抱怨说这种调整最好在他的茶里更快地发生，但赫敏知道卢修斯很高兴她把这些事情告诉了她的朋友们，即使罗恩成为了恼怒的来源。

It was possible the secrecy had been weighing on them more than she’d realised because in the aftermath of the revelation, a calmness and a sense of acceptance had developed between them that hadn't been there before. Being in one another’s company no longer required an excuse and it was freeing.
秘密对他们造成的压力可能比她意识到的要大，因为在事情被揭露之后，他们之间产生了一种前所未有的平静和接受感。在彼此的陪伴下不再需要借口，这是一种自由。

Bending to gently untie the letter from the owl’s leg, Hermione was relieved to see that it was addressed to Lucius and not her. Ron, for all his obstinacy, would surely not be foolish enough to write something to Lucius himself.
赫敏弯下腰轻轻地从猫头鹰的腿上解开那封信，看到这是写给卢修斯的，而不是她，她松了一口气。罗恩，尽管他很固执，但他肯定不会愚蠢到给卢修斯本人写点什么。

“It’s for you,” she said, holding the letter out to him. 
“这是给你的，”她说，把信递给他。

Wearing a puzzled frown, Lucius took the letter with a murmur of thanks and tore it open. Hermione watched on curiously as his eyes skimmed the paper. The more he read, the smoother his forehead got and the lower his shoulders sank. 
卢修斯皱着眉头，低声感谢地接过信，把它撕开了。赫敏好奇地看着他的眼睛扫过那张纸。他读得越多，他的额头就越光滑，肩膀就越低。

Lowering the parchment, he gave her a smile. "It's Draco. Astoria has improved enough to be discharged and they'll be returning to the Manor tomorrow with Scorpius."
他放下羊皮纸，向她微笑。“是德拉科。阿斯托利亚已经好到可以出院了，他们明天会和斯科皮一起回到庄园。

Delighted, Hermione threw her arms around him. He returned the embrace with his free hand, kissing the top of her head before holding the letter aloft to read it again.  
赫敏高兴地搂住了他。他用空出来的手回应这个拥抱，亲吻了她的头顶，然后高高举起信再读一遍。

"I'm so glad she's okay," Hermione said, looking up at him. "Does Draco seem well?"
“我很高兴她没事，”赫敏说，抬头看着他。“德拉科看起来还好吗？”

"His tone is brighter," Lucius said, setting the letter on his desk so that he could wrap both arms around her. "He said she's still weak but the healers can see no good reason why she should not enjoy the comforts of home."
“他的语气更开朗了，”卢修斯说，把信放在他的桌子上，这样他就可以用双臂搂住她。“他说她仍然很虚弱，但治疗师看不出她有什么好理由不应该享受家的舒适。”

"And Scorpius?"
“那么斯科皮呢？”

"Thriving," he said, chest swelling with pride. "They'll arrive around lunchtime. I should warn Letty to prepare their room and the nursery, not to mention the kitchen."
“欣喜若狂，”他说，胸口因自豪而膨胀。“他们会在午餐时间到达。我应该警告莱蒂准备他们的房间和托儿所，更不用说厨房了。

"I'll head back to the flat in the morning so that you can prepare. We've done so much work over the last few days, we can definitely afford to –"
“我早上回公寓，让你做好准备。我们在过去几天里做了这么多工作，我们绝对负担得起——”

"Hermione," he interrupted, frowning. "You've been staying here for days; there's more than enough room for all of us."
“赫敏，”他皱着眉头打断了他。“你已经在这里呆了好几天了;我们所有人的空间绰绰有余。

Shifting awkwardly, Hermione lifted a shoulder. "Well, yes, but I just thought you all might like to have some time together to –"
赫敏笨拙地挪了挪身子，抬起了肩膀。“嗯，是的，但我只是觉得你们都想一起——”

"Draco and Astoria will want you to meet their child," he said sternly. "And if you can't accept that then believe me when I say that I will be mortally offended if you do not wish to meet my grandson."
“德拉科和阿斯托利亚会希望你见见他们的孩子，”他严肃地说。“如果你不能接受这一点，那就相信我，当我说如果你不想见我的孙子，我会受到致命的冒犯。”

Suddenly shy, Hermione lowered her gaze to his chest. "You know I can't wait to meet him."
赫敏突然害羞了，低头看向他的胸口。“你知道我迫不及待地想见他。”

"Then take the opportunity when it presents itself," he said, bringing a hand around to place his finger under her chin and lift her gaze back up to his. 
“那就抓住机会，”他说，伸出一只手，将手指放在她的下巴下，然后将她的目光重新抬向他。

Curling her fingers into his shirt, Hermione pushed herself up onto her tiptoes and placed a soft, smiling kiss on his lips. He slid a hand into her hair to deepen it and Hermione got the impression he was channelling all of his relief and gratitude that his son and family were well into her.
赫敏把手指卷进他的衬衫里，踮起脚尖，在他的嘴唇上轻轻地、微笑地吻了一下。他把一只手伸进她的头发里，加深了头发，赫敏觉得他把所有的宽慰和感激都表达出来了，因为他的儿子和家人都对她很好。

Breaking away somewhat breathlessly, she lost several centimetres in height as she dropped back onto her heels.
她有些喘不过气来，当她重新落到脚跟上时，她的身高减轻了几厘米。

"Alright, you've convinced me," she said, not missing his smug expression. "But I might still run back for an hour first thing in the morning – I'd like to bake a lemon cake for Astoria to come home to and I desperately need some fresh underwear." 
“好吧，你说服了我，”她说，没有错过他得意的表情。“但我可能仍然会在早上第一件事就是跑回来一个小时——我想为 Astoria 烤一个柠檬蛋糕回家，我迫切需要一些新鲜的内衣。”

"I've already told you –"
“我已经跟你说过了——”

"Lucius," she said, pulling away from him to return to the sofa, "you can insist that I don't need to wear underwear around the Manor as much as you like, I've told you it's not happening."
“卢修斯，”她说，从他身边拉开，回到沙发上，“你可以坚持说，我不需要在庄园里穿多少内裤，你想怎么穿就怎么，我已经告诉你了，这不会发生的。

August 20th
8月20日

 

Kingsley's desk was, once again, perfectly neat. So much so that there was more than enough room for a pot of tea and a heaped plate of biscuits. Though now that she'd seen the desk's true messy nature, Hermione found her brain itching with curiosity over what Kingsley did with all his papers and folders when he had visitors.
金斯利的书桌又一次变得非常整洁。以至于有足够的空间容纳一壶茶和一盘饼干。虽然现在她已经看到了这张桌子真正凌乱的本质，但赫敏发现她的大脑好奇金斯莱在有访客时如何处理他的所有文件和文件夹。

She knew he'd never tell her. 
她知道他永远不会告诉她。

"So, here we are again," Kingsley said, wearing a genial smile as he slid a full cup of tea over to Hermione. "You're well?"
“所以，我们又来了，”金斯莱说，带着和蔼的笑容，把满满的一杯茶递给赫敏。“你还好吗？”

Picking up her cup, Hermione lifted a shoulder and nodded. "I am. Busy, of course but –" Unbidden, a smile rose to her face and she looked down into her tea like its steam had just communicated a particularly charming message. "Things are good."
赫敏拿起她的杯子，抬起肩膀，点了点头。“我是。当然很忙，但是——“她不由自主地露出了笑容，她低头看着她的茶，仿佛它的蒸汽刚刚传达了一个特别迷人的信息。“一切都很好。”

Kingsley eyed her over the rim of his own cup. "You certainly seem more… at ease than you did at our last meeting," he observed. "Does this mean you're making good progress on the project?"
金斯莱透过自己的杯子边缘盯着她。“你看起来肯定更......比你上次见面时还自在，“他说道。“这是否意味着你在项目上取得了良好的进展？”

"We are," Hermione said, leaning forward to pick up a digestive biscuit. "We're starting with the things that have the most obvious solutions. Getting them out of the way."
“我们是，”赫敏说，身体前倾，拿起一块消化饼干。“我们从具有最明显解决方案的事情开始。让他们离开。

"Such as?"
“比如？”

"Muggle hunting," she said, looking up at Kingsley from under her brows as she dunked the biscuit. "I think we can just get rid of permissions around that entirely, don't you?" Taking a bite of her biscuit, she fixed Kingsley with an expectant look as she chewed.
“麻瓜狩猎，”她说，一边从眉毛下抬头看着金斯莱，一边把饼干浸入水中。“我觉得我们可以完全摆脱这个权限，不是吗？”她咬了一口饼干，用期待的眼神看着金斯利，一边咀嚼着。

"But it was outlawed as a sport generations ago, Hermione, " Kingsley said, his brow lowering into a deep frown.
“但几代人以前，它就被当作一项运动来禁止了，赫敏，”金斯莱说，他的眉头低垂成深深的皱眉。

"Not on private wizarding land it wasn't," Hermione said darkly, returning her cup to the desk and touching the last bite of her biscuit to her lips. "I wonder how that little loophole was missed, hm?" 
“不是在私人巫师的土地上，”赫敏阴沉地说，把杯子放回桌子上，把最后一口饼干碰到嘴唇上。“我想知道那个小漏洞是怎么漏掉的，嗯？”

Rubbing his eyes tiredly, Kingsley shook his head. "If this isn't a perfect example of why these laws should have been looked into years ago, I don't know what is," he said. "Keep going."
金斯莱疲惫地揉了揉眼睛，摇了摇头。“如果这不是为什么几年前就应该研究这些法律的完美例子，我不知道什么才是，”他说。“继续。”

"We will.” She dusted crumbs from her hands onto her lap. “Lucius is drafting up our justifications for some of those today so I'll try to deliver them at our next meeting so we can get the ball rolling."
“我们会的。”她把手上的碎屑掸到膝盖上。“Lucius 今天正在为其中一些理由起草，所以我会尝试在下次会议上提供它们，这样我们就可以开始工作了。”

Kingsley inclined his head and tapped his finger against his cup. There was a faint ting as one of his gold rings connected with the porcelain.
金斯莱歪着头，用手指敲了敲他的杯子。当他的一枚金戒指与瓷器相连时，发出微弱的叮当声。

"You'll be glad to know," he said, after a moment, "that the Wizengamot has agreed that it certainly will have to reassess Lucius' sentence in the event that he sees this project through to completion."
“你会很高兴知道的，”他过了一会儿说，“威森加摩已经同意，如果卢修斯完成这个项目，它肯定必须重新评估卢修斯的判决。

Gulping her tea so quickly it scalded her throat, Hermione coughed and held a hand to her chest, her eyes watering. "That's fantastic," she rasped. "Thank you, Kingsley, I'll let him know."
赫敏大口大口地喝着茶，快到烫到她的喉咙，她咳嗽着，一只手捂着胸口，眼睛流泪。“那太棒了，”她嘶哑地说。“谢谢你，金斯利，我会让他知道的。”

He nodded, unsmiling. "And you think he will? See it through to completion?"
他点点头，不苟言笑。“你觉得他会吗？完成它？

"He's not given me any reason to think he won't," Hermione said, meeting Kingsley's contemplative gaze and holding it despite her still-watering eyes. "We're working well together."
“他没有给我任何理由认为他不会，”赫敏说，对上金斯莱沉思的目光，尽管她的眼睛仍然流泪，但她还是握住了它。“我们合作得很好。”

"Good," Kingsley said slowly, like he was struggling to figure out whether he actually meant what he was saying. "That's good.” He sounded more certain. “The members of the Wizenganot are extremely curious about this partnership and your persistence, you know. Not to mention Lucius' willingness."
“很好，”金斯莱缓缓地说，就像他在努力弄清楚自己是否真的在说什么。“那很好。”他听起来更确定。“你知道的，Wizenganot 的成员对这种伙伴关系和你的坚持非常好奇。更不用说卢修斯的意愿了。

"Oh, I'm sure they are," Hermione said with a bland smile that told Kingsley they could continue to be curious as far as she was concerned. 
“哦，我确定他们是，”赫敏带着淡淡的笑容说，告诉金斯莱，只要她关心，他们可以继续保持好奇。

"But they – we – are agreed it's very…well, it looks good for the Ministry. It's setting an encouraging example." He cleared his throat and set his tea down carefully. "We may put a small piece in the Prophet. No specifics, of course; I’d rather not shout about the exact nature of your project just yet but it might be good for people to know you’re working on something ."
“但他们——我们——都同意这非常......嗯，这对魔法部来说看起来不错。它树立了一个令人鼓舞的榜样。他清了清嗓子，小心翼翼地把茶放下。“我们可以在先知身上放一小块。当然，没有具体细节;我现在不想大声疾呼你的项目的确切性质，但让人们知道你正在做某事可能是件好事。

“The Prophet?” Hermione asked, her reluctance clear in her cringe.
“先知？”赫敏问道，她的不情愿在她的畏缩中显而易见。

“You don’t like that idea?”
“你不喜欢这个主意吗？”

“I mean…” She puffed out a sigh. “Well, I’ve avoided being in the Prophet for a few years now. I quite liked it that way.”
“我是说......”她叹了口气。“嗯，我已经避免成为先知已经有几年了。我非常喜欢这种方式。

Kingsley raised his eyebrows. “You’re working with Lucius Malfoy on a matter that will eventually be of public interest, Hermione. The question is not whether it’s reported in the Prophet at all but rather whether it happens now or later.”
金斯莱扬起眉毛。“你正在和卢修斯·马尔福一起处理一件最终会引起公众利益的事情，赫敏。问题不在于先知是否报道了它，而在于它是现在还是以后发生。

Barely holding back a groan, Hermione sank back in her seat. “Alright,” she said. “Something small, though, you said? Just a paragraph. No photos. Preferably sandwiched between two jaw-dropping exposés. Tiny font.” She held her thumb and forefinger barely a hair’s breadth apart to show Kingsley the kind of size that she had in mind. 
赫敏勉强忍住呻吟，瘫回了座位上。“好吧，”她说。“不过，你说的是小事吗？只是一个段落。没有照片。最好夹在两个令人瞠目结舌的揭露之间。小字体。她把拇指和食指分开，几乎分开一根头发丝宽，向金斯利展示她心目中的那种尺寸。

Kingsley offered her nothing but a cryptic smile. “I’ll let you know when it’s published.” There was no way he’d taken her font recommendation on board.
金斯利只给了她一个神秘的微笑。“我会在它发布时通知你。”他不可能接受她的字体推荐。

Picturing Lucius’ likely unamused expression on opening the Prophet one morning to find the 'small piece', Hermione rolled her eyes and dropped her hand into her lap, defeated. “I’m sure I’ll hear about it fairly quickly.”
赫敏想象着卢修斯在某天早上打开先知找到“小块”时可能不高兴的表情，她翻了个白眼，把手放在她的腿上，被打败了。“我敢肯定我很快就会听到这件事。”

“Anyway, I'm certainly glad everything is coming together,” Kingsley said, his tone shifting to one of Ministerial abruptness. “Because I've asked the DMLE to gather for an announcement in –" He checked his watch. "Ten minutes! We've nattered too long, Hermione, we'd best go." 
“不管怎样，我当然很高兴一切都走到了一起，”金斯利说，他的语气变成了部长级的突然。“因为我已经让 DMLE 聚在一起发布公告了——”他看了看手表。“十分钟！我们已经叽叽喳喳了太久了，赫敏，我们最好走了。

Throwing back the last of his tea in a gulp, Kingsley uttered a refreshed sigh and pushed himself to his feet with a burst of purposeful energy. 
金斯利一口喝完了最后一口茶，发出一声清爽的叹息，带着一股有目的的能量站了起来。

“Oh.” Hermione shook her head, her hands coming down to grip the sides of her chair like it had just attempted to buck her off. “Oh, no, Kingsley, I’m sure I don’t need to be there for that. You can just go right ahead without me. In fact –” Wrenching her hand off the chair, she pretended to check her own watch. “I have somewhere to be myself.”
“哦。”赫敏摇了摇头，她的手垂下来抓住椅子的两侧，就像它刚刚试图把她推开一样。“哦，不，金斯莱，我确定我不需要在那里。你就可以在没有我的情况下直接前进。事实上——“她把手从椅子上拽下来，假装看了看自己的手表。“我有地方可以做我自己。”

“Unless that ‘somewhere’ is the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Hermione, I’m afraid it will have to wait.”
“除非那个'某个地方'是魔法执法部，赫敏，恐怕它得等一等。”

Quelling under his commanding stare, Hermione mumbled something about how whatever it was certainly could wait – of course, Minister – and unenthusiastically rose to her feet. 
赫敏在他威严的目光下喃喃自语着什么——当然，部长——然后不高兴地站了起来。

With a satisfied smile, Kingsley rounded his desk, passed her and beckoned over his shoulder for her to follow him. Sighing, Hermione snatched another digestive from the desk and took an oversized bite as she slunk after him. 
金斯利满意地笑了笑，绕过他的桌子，经过她，在他的肩膀上招手让她跟着他。赫敏叹了口气，从桌子上抓起另一本消化液，大口大口地咬了一口，慢慢地跟在他后面。

The meeting had a good turn out, as meetings called by the Minister for Magic himself tended to have. Employees from across the department had gathered in the central office space, some sitting behind their desks, others perched on the desks of friends, and more still gathered around the sides of the room. 
这次会议结果很好，因为魔法部长亲自召集的会议往往是这样。来自整个部门的员工都聚集在中央办公室，一些人坐在办公桌后面，另一些人坐在朋友的桌子上，还有更多人仍然聚集在房间的两侧。

When Kingsley swept into the room followed by Hermione, the buzz of many simultaneous conversations quickly died down. They took a central position at the front of the room and heat swiftly rose in Hermione’s cheeks under the weight of so many curious stares. As she scanned the crowd, she spotted the messy hair of Harry and gave him a weak smile when he waved madly.
当金斯莱跟在赫敏身后扫进房间时，许多同时进行的对话的嗡嗡声很快就平息了。他们在房间前面的中央位置，在这么多好奇的目光下，赫敏的脸颊上的热量迅速上升。当她扫视人群时，她发现了哈利凌乱的头发，当他疯狂地挥手时，她给了他一个虚弱的微笑。

“Good afternoon everyone,” Kingsley said, his deep voice easily carrying across the room and catching the attention of the one or two people who had been too busy chatting to notice his entrance. “Thank you for taking a few minutes out of your day to be here. Now, I’m sure you’re all curious –” Here, he cast a warm smile in Hermione’s direction and she prayed for the floor to open up. “So I’ll just get right into it.”
“大家下午好，”金斯利说，他低沉的声音轻松地传遍了整个房间，引起了一两个忙着聊天而没有注意到他进来的人的注意。“感谢您抽出几分钟时间来到这里。现在，我相信你们都很好奇——“说到这里，他朝赫敏的方向投来一个温暖的微笑，她祈祷地板能打开。“所以我就直接开始吧。”

As Kingsley announced Hermione’s return to the Ministry and her movement into the department, she had the torturous honour of standing beside him in silence, observing everyone's reactions with a faint ringing in her ears. 
当金斯莱宣布赫敏回到魔法部并进入魔法部时，她有幸默默地站在他身边，看着每个人的反应，耳边发出微弱的铃声。

To her relief, the general responses to the news ranged from the polite indifference of those who just wanted to get on with their own work, to genuine pleasure. Harry's face was, of course, a beaming beacon in the middle of the crowd but there were a number of warm smiles and friendly, even familiar, faces looking to catch her eye.  
令她松了一口气的是，人们对这个消息的普遍反应从那些只想继续自己工作的人的礼貌冷漠到真正的快乐。当然，哈利的脸是人群中一盏喜气洋洋的灯塔，但也有许多温暖的笑容和友好的、甚至是熟悉的面孔，希望吸引她的眼球。

Kingsley was light on the details of what she'd be working on, merely mentioning that she'd be looking into some of their older laws with an eye to improvement and fairness. This in itself raised some interested eyebrows and Hermione prepared herself to fend off some invasive questions in the near future.
金斯利对她将要从事的工作的细节并不感兴趣，只是提到她将研究他们的一些旧法律，着眼于改进和公平。这本身就引起了一些感兴趣的注意，赫敏准备好在不久的将来抵御一些侵入性的问题。

It was when Kingsley revealed that she was working with Lucius Malfoy that there was a palpable shift in the atmosphere. Smiles slipped, eyes bulged and the rustle and buzz of dozens of people turning to their neighbour to whisper forced Kingsley to raise his voice slightly.
当金斯利透露她正在与卢修斯·马尔福合作时，气氛发生了明显的变化。笑容溜走了，眼睛凸出，几十个人转向邻居窃窃私语的沙沙声和嗡嗡声迫使金斯利稍微提高了声音。

Some of her colleagues looked genuinely shocked, which was to be expected. Others appeared more intrigued, eyes fixed on her while they murmured excitedly to their colleagues behind their hands. Others still, however, looked annoyed and Hermione found her eyes lingering for longer on this frown or that tight jaw. It was hard not to notice that the majority of them were on the faces of Aurors. 
她的一些同事看起来真的很震惊，这是意料之中的。其他人似乎更感兴趣，眼睛盯着她，同时兴奋地向他们手后的同事喃喃自语。然而，其他人看起来仍然很生气，赫敏发现她的眼睛在这皱眉或紧绷的下巴上徘徊了更长的时间。很难不注意到他们中的大多数都出现在傲罗的脸上。

"So." Wearing an overly bright smile, Kingsley clapped his hands together once, drawing any attention that had strayed straight back to him and silencing any murmurs. "I do hope you'll welcome Hermione into the department and give her your full support when she's in the office. She's one of you now and an exciting addition to the team."
“所以。”金斯利带着过于灿烂的笑容，拍了拍手，把所有直接转移到他身上的注意力都吸引过来，平息了所有的抱怨。“我真心希望你能欢迎赫敏加入这个部门，并在她在办公室时给予她全力支持。她现在是你们中的一员，也是团队中令人兴奋的新成员。

Towards the side of the room, Hermione spied one burly Auror lean into another, far taller one to whisper something in his ear. The taller one laughed unpleasantly, his shoulders bouncing, while the burly one eyed Hermione with a faint sneer. 
在房间的一侧，赫敏看到一个魁梧的傲罗靠在另一个高得多的傲罗身上，在他耳边低语着什么。高个子不悦地笑了起来，肩膀跳动着，而魁梧的那个则用淡淡的冷笑看着赫敏。

Fixing a pleasant smile to her face, Hermione tried not to look at the two Aurors again as the rest of the Department surrounded her, extending handshakes and words of welcome.
赫敏脸上露出一个愉快的笑容，尽量不去看那两个傲罗，因为部门的其他人都围住了她，伸出手和欢迎的话。

August 26th
八月 26th

 

With wide, purposeful strides, Lucius pursued Hermione down the main corridor of the library. It was late at night and the candles flickering every few metres struggled to penetrate the dim. She was marching ahead of him, her curls bouncing against her back with every heavy, heel-first step she took. 
卢修斯迈着宽阔而有目的的步伐，沿着图书馆的主走廊追赶赫敏。当时是深夜，每隔几米摇曳一次的蜡烛难以穿透昏暗。她走在他前面，她的卷发随着她迈出的每一步而在她的背上弹跳。

“Hermione,” he said, trying to keep his voice level, “walking away from me will not bring us any closer to a solution.”
“赫敏，”他说，努力保持声音平稳，“从我身边走开不会让我们更接近解决方案。

“No,” she said, sharply turning down a dark row as though she might be able to shake him off, “but it will mean I don’t have to look at your bloody face for a moment.”
“不，”她说，猛地转过身来，仿佛她也许能把他甩开，“但那意味着我一刻也不用看你那张血淋淋的脸。

“You wanted to work with me,” he snapped into the darkness from the main body of the library. “I told you I wouldn’t make it easy so don’t get angry when I don’t just agree with you.”
“你想和我一起工作，”他从图书馆的主体中冲进黑暗中。“我告诉过你，我不会轻易的，所以当我不同意你的观点时，不要生气。”

Reaching a dead end, Hermione spun on her heel, her hair whipping around so violently it brushed against the bookcase closest to her. Facing him, her eyes blazing, she planted her hands firmly on her hips.
走到死胡同时，赫敏在脚后跟上打转，她的头发猛烈地甩动着，拂过离她最近的书架。面对他，她的眼睛炯炯有神，她将双手牢牢地放在自己的臀部上。

“You don’t have to agree with me, Lucius, but when you disagree do at least try to make it over something worthwhile!”
“你不必同意我的观点，卢修斯，但当你不同意时，至少要试着在一些有价值的事情上解决这个问题！”

Jaw tight, Lucius strode down the row towards her. “You wanted a Pure-blood perspective, Hermione, and I’m giving you it. You may see some of these things as privileges but they have existed for so long that for many Pure-bloods they are inalienable rights so you need to be careful with how you approach them.”
Lucius紧紧咬着下巴，大步沿着那排向她走来。“你想要一个纯血统的视角，赫敏，我给你这个。你可能会把其中一些东西看作是特权，但它们已经存在了很长时间，以至于对于许多纯血统的人来说，它们是不可剥夺的权利，所以你需要小心对待它们。

Hermione scoffed derisively but Lucius pressed on. “Hereditary seats on the Wizengamot have been there since its inception which, I might add, pre-dates the Ministry itself. Pure-blood families expect to be able to pass these seats on to their children as they were passed on to them.”
赫敏嘲讽地嘲笑着，但卢修斯继续说下去。“威森加摩的世袭席位自成立以来就一直存在，我可以补充一点，这比魔法部本身还要早。纯血统家庭希望能够将这些名额传给他们的孩子，就像这些名额传给他们一样。

Crossing her arms, Hermione narrowed her eyes at him. “It’s ridiculous, Lucius. Hereditary members make up twenty-five percent of the Wizengamot and they're all Pure-bloods. How can that be right? It’s not representative. Even when a line dies out, there’s another family just waiting in the wings to finally take its place.” Tossing her head back, she growled in frustration. “God, I mean, it’s disproportionately men as well.”
赫敏交叉双臂，眯起眼睛看着他。“这太荒谬了，卢修斯。世袭成员占威森加摩家族的百分之二十五，他们都是纯血统。这怎么可能是正确的呢？它不具有代表性。即使一条线路消失了，也有另一个家庭在等待最终取代它的位置。她把头往后仰，沮丧地咆哮着。“上帝啊，我的意思是，男性也不成比例。”

“Many of those seats were granted to very worthy members of the wizarding community for exceptional acts. The families are naturally proud of such ancestors."
“这些席位中有很多是授予巫师界非常有价值的成员的，因为他们有杰出的行为。这些家族自然为这样的祖先感到自豪。

"They can be proud! Good for them, I’m not stopping them. But you know as well as I do that a man is not his father, or his grandfather or his great, great, great whatever . Just because you're related to someone who was worthy to hold the position does not mean you are."
“他们可以感到自豪！对他们有好处，我不会阻止他们。但是你和我一样知道，一个人不是他的父亲，也不是他的祖父，也不是他的曾、曾、伟大的任何东西。仅仅因为你与有资格担任这个职位的人有关系，并不意味着你是。

"There are some in the Wizengamot who would thoroughly disagree."
“威森加摩有些人会完全不同意。”

"Is the Malfoy family on the register?" Hermione asked abruptly, her eyes narrowed with suspicion. When Lucius merely adopted a sniffy expression she smirked and snorted dismissively. "You are, aren’t you? When one of those old codgers pops their clogs, you’ll be top of the list to take his place, won’t you?"
“马尔福家族在登记册上吗？”赫敏突然问道，她的眼睛怀疑地眯起了起来。当卢修斯只是露出一个嗅嗅的表情时，她傻笑着，轻蔑地哼了一声。“你是，不是吗？当那些老混蛋中的一个破洞时，你会成为取代他位置的首要成员，不是吗？

"I’m not entirely sure of my place on the list," Lucius said with an indifferent shrug.
“我不完全确定我在名单上的位置，”卢修斯冷漠地耸耸肩说。

"Lucius, I swear to God –"
“卢修斯，我向上帝发誓——”

“I'm not telling you the system is right, Hermione, I'm telling you to adopt a strategy of curtailment over outright abolition,” he insisted, throwing a hand out for emphasis. “You don’t tell them you’re just outlawing hereditary seats, you put limits on them. Put a line under the creation of new ones; set generational expiries; reduce the number that can sit at the one time to ten percent for all I care. Strangle them so tightly that it makes their death inevitable but don’t let yourself be pinned down as the one that killed them."
“我不是告诉你这个系统是对的，赫敏，我是告诉你要采取一种削减策略，而不是彻底废除，”他坚持说，伸出一只手来强调。“你不要告诉他们你只是在取缔世袭席位，你对它们进行了限制。在创建新 API 下放置一条线;设置分代到期日;将 All I care 一次可以坐下的数量减少到 10%。把他们掐得如此严密，这样他们的死亡就不可避免了，但不要让自己被固定为杀死他们的人。

“Why shouldn’t I?”
“我为什么不呢？”

“Because taking a hard line approach with every single one of these laws is guaranteed to make the Pure-bloods of Wizarding Britain extremely angry at you, even if I am backing you.” He paused and swallowed, reasserting some control over his tone. “Are you forgetting that whatever recommendations you make will have to go through the Wizengamot itself? Do you really want to alienate a quarter of them? Appear judicious where you can and it will stand you in good stead when you do go hard.”
“因为对这些法律中的每一项都采取强硬的态度肯定会让巫师英国的纯血统对你非常生气，即使我支持你。”他停顿了一下，咽了口口水，重新控制了自己的语气。“你忘了你提出的任何建议都必须经过威森加摩吗？”你真的想疏远他们中的四分之一吗？在你能做到的地方表现得明智，当你努力时，它会对你有好处。

Lips pursed, arms still tightly crossed across her chest, Hermione did nothing but glower at him. He stared straight back, his eyes never leaving hers. The silence stretched out, tautening to a painful degree. Then, when he could take no more, Lucius broke it, groaning out a frustrated laugh and tipping his head back, his eyes closing. 
赫敏抿着嘴唇，双臂仍然紧紧地交叉在胸前，除了瞪着他，什么也没做。他直直地盯着她，他的眼睛从未离开过她。寂静持续了很长时间，绷紧到了痛苦的程度。然后，当他再也忍受不了时，卢修斯打破了它，沮丧地呻吟着笑了起来，然后把头向后仰，闭上了眼睛。

“Hermione,” he said, drawing his hands down his face before lowering his gaze to her. “I love you but you are so relentlessly stubborn. Remember: I am on your side in all this.”
“赫敏，”他说，把手从脸上滑下来，然后低头看向她。“我爱你，但你是如此无情的固执。记住：在这一切中，我都站在你这边。

Hermione’s face slackened all at once, her tightly pressed lips parting. “What did you just say?”
赫敏的脸一下子松了下来，紧紧地抿着的嘴唇张开了。“你刚才说了什么？”

“I said you’re stubborn," he said on a sigh, pinching the bridge of his nose. "Relentlessly so. As if I needed further proof that you’re not actually listening to what I’m saying.”
“我说你很固执，”他叹了口气说，捏了捏自己的鼻梁。“无情地如此。就好像我需要进一步的证据来证明你实际上并没有在听我在说什么。

“No.” Slowly uncrossing her arms, Hermione shook her head. “No,” she said, drawing out the word tentatively. “No. No, you said you love me.”
“不。”赫敏慢慢地松开双臂，摇了摇头。“不，”她说，试探性地抽出这个词。“不。不，你说过你爱我。

Lucius opened his mouth, hesitating. He had said that in a roundabout way, hadn’t he? The word ‘love’ had certainly been used. He drummed his fingers against the sides of his legs. “Yes,” he finally admitted, like the word was being painfully extracted from him.  
卢修斯张开嘴，犹豫了一下。他以一种迂回的方式说了这话，不是吗？“爱”这个词肯定被用过了。他用手指敲打着自己的腿两侧。“是的，”他终于承认了，就像这个词被痛苦地从他身上抽离一样。

“You’ve never said that before, Lucius,” she said, her voice noticeably softer than it had been mere moments before.
“你以前从来没有这么说过，卢修斯，”她说，她的声音明显比刚才要轻柔。

Clearing his throat, Lucius drew his shoulders back. “Well, I thought it would have been obvious that I do, given the incredible patience I’ve been displaying this evening.”
清了清嗓子，卢修斯把肩膀往后拉。“嗯，我想我这样做是显而易见的，因为我今晚表现出了令人难以置信的耐心。”

Lips turning down at the corners, Hermione said flatly, “This is becoming less romantic by the second.”
赫敏的嘴角弯下，平淡地说，“这事儿一秒快变得不那么浪漫了。

“I don’t think it was ever romantic to start with,” he muttered.
“我不认为一开始就很浪漫，”他咕哝道。

“Can you just say it again?”
“你能再说一遍吗？”

“Say what again?”
“再说什么？”

“You know what,” she said, her voice hardening once more. “Say it again but nicely this time. Without the caveat.”
“你知道吗，”她说，她的声音再次变得坚硬。“再说一遍，但这次说得不错。没有警告。

“No.”
“不。”

“Why not? ”
“为什么不呢？”

“Because,” he said through gritted teeth, “right at this moment, it would sound wholly insincere.”
“因为，”他咬牙切齿地说，“就在此时此刻，这听起来完全不真诚。

“Just say it , Lucius!”
“就说吧，卢修斯！”

“Why?” 
“为什么？”

“Because I want to say it back,” she snapped, “but I want it to be a nice moment and not whatever this is!”
“因为我想回来说，”她厉声说，“但我希望这是一个美好的时刻，而不是这是什么！

With a growl of frustration and a swiftness that made Hermione squeak, Lucius closed the space between them. Instinctively, she stumbled back, allowing him to crowd her up against the bookshelf where he caged her in with his arms. 
带着一声沮丧的咆哮和让赫敏吱吱作响的迅捷，卢修斯拉近了他们之间的空间。她本能地踉踉跄跄地往后退，让他把她挤在书架上，然后用手臂把她抱进去。

Turning her face up to his, her breathing fast and shallow, she had the time to meet his eyes for only a moment before he was kissing her. The kiss was hard, urgent, and he pressed himself against her, his hands grabbing her waist to pull her closer when that wasn’t enough. 
她把脸转向他，呼吸急促而浅促，在他亲吻她之前，她只来得及与他的眼睛对视片刻。这个吻很艰难，很紧急，他把自己压在她身上，他的手抓住她的腰，想把她拉得更近，但这还不够。

“I love you,” he growled in her ear. “Alright? Even when you’re being –” He nipped at the soft skin of her ear sharply with his teeth, making her cry out. “ Utterly impossible.”
“我爱你，”他在她耳边咆哮。“好吗？即使你是——“他用牙齿猛烈地咬住她柔软的耳朵皮肤，让她大声哭泣。“完全不可能。”

Gripping the back of his head to hold him to her neck, she laughed breathlessly. “Even when?” she asked. “Or especially when?”
她抓住他的后脑勺，把他抱在脖子上，气喘吁吁地笑了起来。“甚至什么时候？”“或者特别是什么时候？”

His responding laugh was more of a deep grumble in his throat. When his lips found a particular spot where her neck met her shoulder, Hermione whimpered and clutched at him, bucking her hips against his. Bringing her hands between them, she began fumbling with his trousers, ducking her head to better see what she was doing.
他回应的笑声更像是他喉咙里深深的抱怨。当他的嘴唇找到她的脖子与肩膀相接的特定位置时，赫敏呜咽着紧紧抓住他，用她的臀部抵住他的臀部。她双手夹在他们之间，开始摸索他的裤子，低下头以便更好地看到自己在做什么。

“Hermione,” he said, encasing her hands with his to stop her and glancing towards the end of the row where the wider library was. “What are you –”
“赫敏，”他说，用双手搂住她以阻止她，然后瞥了一眼那排更宽的图书馆所在的那一排的尽头。“你是什么——”

“It’s just us,” she said, her voice barely above a whisper. “And it’s late. And it won’t take long.”
“只有我们，”她说，她的声音几乎比耳语还多。“而且已经很晚了。而且这不会花很长时间。

“Speak for yourself,” he said, his tone dry and a touch resentful.
“你自己说吧，”他说，语气干涩，带着些许怨恨。

Taking one of his hands that had closed over hers, she guided it down to her thigh and encouraged him to flatten his palm against her bare skin. When he said nothing in response but simply swallowed, she kept her eyes on his and moved his hand slowly upwards. 
她拿起他一只紧挨着她的手，把它引导到她的大腿上，鼓励他用手掌抚平她裸露的皮肤。当他什么也没说，只是咽了咽口水时，她的眼睛一直盯着他，慢慢地将他的手向上移动。

“Hermione,” he said hoarsely, moving his face closer to hers so that their noses were just about touching, their breath warm in the sliver of space left between them. 
“赫敏，”他嘶哑地说，把脸凑近她的脸，这样他们的鼻子就要碰到了，他们的呼吸在他们之间留下的一小片空间里温暖。

Guiding his hand under her skirt, her chest rising and falling rapidly, Hermione moved his fingertips to her underwear and helped him to apply some pressure. Lucius groaned softly in his throat when the heat of her burned against his cold hand. Taking the lead, he hooked his fore and middle fingers into her knickers and rubbed the backs of his fingers against her wetness. Uttering a sound that was somewhere between a gasp and a moan, she slid her legs further apart. 
赫敏将手引导到她的裙子下，她的胸部快速起伏，赫敏将指尖移到她的内裤上，帮助他施加一些压力。卢修斯在喉咙里轻轻地呻吟着，她的热度在他冰冷的手上燃烧着。他带头，将食指和中指钩进她的短裤里，用指背在她湿漉漉的湿漉漉上摩擦。她发出的声音介于喘息和呻吟之间，将双腿进一步分开。

“Please,” she whispered, a desperate waver in her voice. “Lucius.”
“拜托，”她低声说，声音里带着绝望的颤抖。“卢修斯。”

After that, they were frantic. Lucius gripped Hermione’s right leg and she lifted it, hooking it around his hip while rising onto her tiptoes on her left foot. Roughly undoing his trousers, he eased himself over the waistband and fumbled between her legs to move her underwear aside. As he thrust up into her, her head fell back and thumped against the books behind her, a moan escaping her. 
在那之后，他们变得疯狂。卢修斯抓住赫敏的右腿，她抬起它，把它钩在他的臀部上，同时用左脚踮起脚尖。他粗暴地解开他的裤子，在腰带上放松下来，在她的两腿之间摸索着，把她的内裤移到一边。当他向上插入她时，她的头向后仰，砰砰地撞在她身后的书上，她发出了呻吟。

Shushing her, Lucius buried his face in her neck and she wrapped her arms around him, biting her lip to an almost painful degree to quiet herself. Anchoring the crook of his elbow under her knee, he pushed her bent leg closer to her body and lifted her further up. The tip of her trainer barely brushed the ground as he set a relentless pace. 
卢修斯让她安静下来，把脸埋在她的脖子上，她用手臂搂住他，咬着嘴唇，几乎是痛苦的程度，让自己安静下来。他将手肘的弯曲固定在她的膝盖下，将她弯曲的腿推得更靠近她的身体，并将她进一步抬起。她的训练师的尖端勉强擦过地面，他以无情的步伐前进。

In the still peace of the library, the muffled grunts of Lucius and the rapid thumps of her lower back hitting the shelves sounded particularly indecent to Hermione. It was like they were racing one another to orgasm and, focusing on the growing pressure between her thighs, she closed her eyes and willed herself to win.
在寂静的图书馆里，卢修斯低沉的咕噜声和她下背部撞击书架的快速砰砰声，对赫敏来说听起来特别不雅。就像他们正在互相竞争以获得高潮，专注于她大腿之间越来越大的压力，她闭上眼睛，让自己想要胜利。

“I’m gonna –” she whispered. “Oh God, Lucius, I –”
“我要——”她低声说。“哦，上帝，卢修斯，我——”

He sealed his lips over hers to muffle her cry when her orgasm hit, the pleasure fizzing up to her head and dripping down to her toes. Burying himself as deeply inside her as he could, he came with a grunted curse, his fingers at her waist gripping painfully. Attempting to catch his breath, he kept her pressed against the bookcase for several minutes, his eyes closed.
当她的高潮来临时，他用嘴唇封住她的嘴唇，以压制她的哭泣，快感嘶嘶作响，滴落到她的脚趾。他尽可能地把自己深深地埋进她的体内，咕哝着咒骂着，他的手指在她的腰上痛苦地抓着。他试图喘口气，让她紧紧地靠在书架上几分钟，闭上眼睛。

When he finally released her leg and attempted to step back, she wrapped her arms back around his neck and refused to let him go, practically hanging from him. 
当他终于松开她的腿并试图后退时，她用手臂搂住他的脖子，拒绝放开他，几乎挂在他身上。

“I love you, too,” she said, looking up at him before resting the side of her head on his chest. “I do.”
“我也爱你，”她说，抬头看着他，然后将头的一侧靠在他的胸前。“我愿意。”

He enveloped her waist with his arms and held her quietly. “Bed,” he finally said into her hair. “Let’s go to bed. We can continue our discussion in the morning.”
他用双臂搂住她的腰，静静地抱着她。“床，”他终于对着她的头发说。“我们上床睡觉吧。我们可以在早上继续讨论。

September 5th
9月5日

 

Dropping her battered handbag on Harry’s cluttered desk, Hermione used both of her hands to support her as she leaned across it towards his face. 
赫敏把她破旧的手提包放在哈利杂乱的桌子上，用双手扶着她，把包靠在他的脸上。

“Right,” she said. “Quill down. I’m taking you for lunch.”
“是的，”她说。“羽毛笔下来。我带你吃午饭。

Gaping incredulously at the bag, Harry looked up at her from the report he had been engrossed in. “You nearly knocked over my ink.”
哈利难以置信地瞪着袋子，从他全神贯注的报告中抬起头看着她。“你差点打翻了我的墨水。”

“I’ll do worse than that if you don’t come to lunch with me.”
“如果你不来和我一起吃午饭，我会做得比这更糟糕。”

Alarmed, Harry surrounded his papers with a protective arm. “What’s gotten into you?” he asked. “You’re Hermione Granger – you never tell people to stop working.”
哈利惊慌失措，用一只保护手臂围住了他的文件。“你怎么了？”“你是赫敏·格兰杰——你从不告诉人们停止工作。”

“Your wife has gotten into me.” Hermione stopped and frowned. “Onto me? Anyway, it’s Ginny. This is Ginny’s fault.”
“你老婆搞定了我。”赫敏停了下来，皱起了眉头。“对我？总之，是金妮。这是金妮的错。

“I should have known,” Harry said, shaking his head. 
“我早该知道的，”哈利摇着头说。

“You married her,” Hermione pointed out. 
“你娶了她，”赫敏指出。

“Yeah, but I didn’t expect you to help her make me pay for it.”
“是啊，但我没想到你会帮她让我付钱。”

Pursing her lips, Hermione pushed herself up to stand straight and frowned down at Harry. “Should I be offended that you would class coming to lunch with me as ‘paying for it’?”
赫敏抿着嘴唇，挺起身子站直，皱着眉头看着哈利。“你把和我一起吃午饭当作'付钱'，我应该生气吗？”

“No,” Harry assured her quickly. “No, it’s just…” He glanced around at the sheafs of parchment scattered across his desk. “I’ve had a lot to do recently. Ginny thinks I’m pushing myself too hard.”
“不，”哈利很快向她保证。“不，只是......”他环顾四周，看了一眼散落在桌上的一捆捆羊皮纸。“我最近有很多事情要做。金妮觉得我把自己逼得太紧了。

“Well,” Hermione said, picking up a long inventory from a raid to peruse it. “When was the last time you took a lunch hour?”
“嗯，”赫敏说，从突袭中拿起一长串清单仔细阅读。“你上一次吃午饭是什么时候？”

Harry ran his hands through his hair, giving himself a particularly electrified look. “I honestly don’t know,” he said before sighing heavily. Taking a quick look around at the surrounding desks, he leaned towards her and jerked his head at her in an invitation to come closer. 
哈利用手抚摸着自己的头发，给自己一个特别兴奋的样子。“老实说，我不知道，”他说，然后重重地叹了口气。他快速环顾了一下周围的桌子，向她靠了靠，猛地向她转了摇头，邀请她靠近一点。

Curiosity piqued, Hermione set aside the inventory. Lowering herself onto her elbows, she brought their heads close together. “There’s an opening coming up for the head of the Auror department,” he whispered, “and I want to go for it.”
好奇心被激起，赫敏把库存放在一边。她低下身子，用手肘撑起，把他们的头靠得更近。“傲罗部门的负责人有一个空缺，”他低声说，“我想去争取。

Gasping quietly, a delighted smile spreading over her face, Hermione straightened up and clapped her hands together. “Harry, that’s so exciting!” He tried to hush her, holding up a hand. “You’re obviously going to get it.”
赫敏轻声喘息，脸上洋溢着欣喜的笑容，她直起身来，拍了拍手。“哈利，太令人兴奋了！”他举起一只手，试图让她安静下来。“你显然会得到它。”

Groaning doubtfully, Harry looked around at his various reports in search of something. “I’m trying to make sure of it.” He glanced up at her and Hermione spied dark smudges under his eyes behind his glasses. “I don’t want it to seem like I… expect it or something.” A shudder passed through him at the mere idea of anyone thinking that of him. 
哈利疑惑地呻吟着，环顾四周，翻阅着他的各种报告，寻找着什么。“我正在努力确保这一点。”他抬头看了她一眼，赫敏在眼镜后面发现了他眼睛下的黑色污迹。“我不想让它看起来像我...... 期待它什么的。他一想到有人会这样想他，就感到不寒而栗。

Hermione looked on sympathetically as Harry sifted through various stacks of parchment. She, more than anyone, recognised the signs of someone who needed to stop and take a breath. “Sometimes a break can be good,” she pressed hopefully. “An hour now to rest your brain could do you the world of good.”
赫敏同情地看着哈利筛选各种羊皮纸。她比任何人都更能识别出有人需要停下来喘口气的迹象。“有时候休息一下是好的，”她满怀希望地催促道。“现在休息一个小时，让你的大脑好好吃。”

“Honestly,” said Harry, aggressively lifting a pile of parchment and dropping it when it wasn’t hiding what he was looking for. “I think if I stop I might collapse.”
“老实说，”哈利说，咄咄逼人地拿起一堆羊皮纸，趁它没有藏住他要找的东西就扔了下来。“我想如果我停下来，我可能会崩溃。”

“All the more reason,” she insisted. When Harry merely reached for his quill again and hurriedly dipped it in ink, Hermione sighed. “That’s a shame.” Swallowing, she squeezed her toes down in her shoes before adding, “Because someone told me they love me recently and I’d like to talk to a friend about it.”
“更有理由，”她坚持说。当哈利再次伸手去拿他的羽毛笔，匆匆忙忙地蘸了墨水时，赫敏叹了口气。“真可惜。”她咽了口口水，用脚趾头挤进鞋子里，然后补充道，“因为有人告诉我他们最近很爱我，我想和朋友谈谈。

Harry froze, his quill halfway between his inkwell and his parchment. As his gaze slowly rose to Hermione’s, a single drop of ink that had been gathering on the point of his quill finally dropped onto his desk. “Right,” he said faintly. “Well, that’s news.”
哈利愣住了，他的羽毛笔夹在墨水瓶和羊皮纸之间。当他的目光慢慢地抬向赫敏时，一滴一直聚集在羽毛笔尖上的墨水终于落到了他的桌子上。“是的，”他淡淡地说。“嗯，这是新闻。”

Taking a deep breath, her shoulders rising, Hermione nodded, humming a sound of agreement.  
赫敏深吸一口气，扬起肩膀，点点头，哼唱着同意的声音。

“And what did you say?” He prompted impatiently, the shake of his hand making more ink droplets splatter. “What did you say back?”
“你说什么？”他不耐烦地催促道，握手让更多的墨滴飞溅。“你怎么回答？”

“That’s really a conversation I’d rather have over some lunch, Harry.”
“我真想在吃午饭的时候再聊，哈利。”

Glaring down at his report and then back up at Hermione, Harry let out an irritated scoff and dropped his quill. “Right,” he said, pointing at her. “Fine. You win.” He grabbed the inventory Hermione had been perusing and pushed himself to his feet, stepping away from his desk. “Wait here while I run this round to Napier then we can go.”
哈利低头瞪着他的报告，然后又抬头看向赫敏，恼怒地嘲笑了一声，扔下了他的羽毛笔。“对，”他指着她说。“好吧。你赢了。他抓起赫敏一直在翻阅的清单，站起身来，离开了办公桌。“在这里等我跑到内皮尔，然后我们就可以走了。”

Grinning triumphantly, Hermione stepped around him as he passed her, dropping into his seat to wait for him. “But I pick where we’re eating!” he called back to her. “Give me that, at least.”
赫敏得意地咧嘴一笑，当他从她身边经过时，他绕过了他，坐在座位上等他。“但我选我们吃饭的地方！”“至少，给我这个。”

Waving him off with a chuckle, Hermione set about placing his quill neatly away and stopping his ink so that it wouldn’t dry out. She hadn’t exactly intended to talk about the new development in her relationship with Lucius with anyone just yet but Ginny had seemed so worried about Harry that she was willing to do anything to drag him away from his desk. 
赫敏笑着挥手让他走，然后开始把他的羽毛笔整齐地收起来，停止他的墨水，以免它变干。她还不打算和任何人谈论她和卢修斯关系的新发展，但金妮似乎非常担心哈利，以至于她愿意做任何事情把他从他的办公桌上拖走。

Anyone else, she thought, would be satisfied that they’d proven themselves when they’d defeated the most evil wizard in a generation. Not Harry Potter, apparently. She supposed she could relate but he had to eat at least one lunch.
她想，其他人都会因为当他们击败了一代人中最邪恶的巫师时，就证明了自己而感到满意。显然不是哈利波特。她以为她能感同身受，但他至少得吃一顿午餐。

“Not working with your Death Eater pal today?”
“今天不和你的食死徒朋友一起工作吗？”

Jumping at the sound of the gruff voice, Hermione blinked and looked around. With a sinking in her stomach, she found herself facing the Auror who had sneered at her during Kingsley’s announcement. He had stopped beside Harry’s desk, his hands shoved in his pockets. The unpleasant sneer was still there. Was it possible it was just his face? Or was it just his face when he was looking at her?
听到这沙哑的声音，赫敏跳了起来，眨了眨眼，环顾四周。随着她的胃一沉，她发现自己面对的是那个在金斯莱宣布时对她嘲笑的傲罗。他停在哈利的桌子旁边，双手插在口袋里。那令人不快的冷笑还在。有没有可能只是他的脸？还是只是他看着她的脸？

“Excuse me?” Hermione asked, her tone polite but cold. “I don't think we've been introduced.”
“什么？”赫敏问道，她的语气礼貌但冰冷。“我不认为我们被介绍过。”

“We haven't,” the Auror said. “But you don't need an introduction, do you? Everyone knows you.” An unpleasant knot was forming in Hermione’s chest. This man did not like her. “Hermione Granger, the war heroine.” He paused for a moment, waiting to see what reply she might give to that. When she gave him none, he said, “How do you go from that to partnering up with Death Eaters, eh?”
“我们没有，”傲罗说。“但你不需要介绍，对吧？大家都认识你。赫敏的胸口正在形成一个令人不快的结。这个男人不喜欢她。“赫敏·格兰杰，战争女英雄。”他停顿了一会儿，等着看她会怎么回答。当她什么也没给他时，他说：“你是怎么从那个到和食死徒合作的，嗯？

Hermione noticed that some of those sitting at the desks nearest them had started to listen to the exchange, the sound of quills scratching and paper rustling only noticeable in its absence. 
赫敏注意到，坐在离他们最近的桌子上的一些人已经开始听他们的交流，羽毛笔刮擦的声音和纸张的沙沙声只有在没有的时候才会明显。

With growing irritation and embarrassment, she straightened in her seat. “You don't know what you're talking ab–”
随着越来越生气和尴尬，她在座位上直起身来。“你不知道你在说什么，ab——”

“Word on the grapevine ‘round here,” he said, not bothering to lower his voice, “is that whatever you’re working on with old Malfoy could get him out early.” The Auror’s sneer became more pronounced, his eyes narrowing. “Now why would you, a war heroine, want to help him out with something like that? All those years on half pay must have hit you hard.”
“小道消息说，”他懒得压低声音，“不管你和老马尔福做什么，都能让他早点出来。傲罗的冷笑变得更加明显，他的眼睛眯了起来。“那么，你，一个战争女英雄，为什么还要帮助他做这样的事情呢？那些年半薪的工资一定对你造成了沉重的打击。

Within the space of a thought, Hermione pushed herself to her feet, Harry’s chair sliding away with such force that it bumped the desk behind. “Now listen here –”
在一瞬间，赫敏用力站了起来，哈利的椅子滑开了，力道之大，撞到了后面的桌子。“现在听着——”

“Is there a problem here?” Harry had returned. His eyes flicked to Hermione, telling her to say nothing more, before moving to the Auror, at whom he raised his eyebrows expectantly. “Smythe?”
“这儿有问题吗？”哈利回来了。他的眼睛瞥向赫敏，告诉她不要再说什么了，然后转向傲罗，他期待地抬起了眉毛。“史密斯？”

“Potter,” Smythe greeted him neutrally. “I was just asking Granger what business she thinks she has working in a department that enforces the law. I suppose she’s trying to get an inside track to help her Death Eater buddies.” His eyes slid to Hermione. “Planned any more parties at the Manor that we’ll have to attend?”
“波特，”斯迈斯中立地向他打招呼。“我只是问格兰杰，她认为她在一个执法部门工作有什么业务。我想她是想找个内幕来帮助她的食死徒伙伴。他的眼睛滑向赫敏。“我们打算在庄园里再举办什么派对吗？”

If her jaw hadn’t been clamped shut, Hermione thought she might have been sick. At this point, most of the surrounding desks had stopped pretending to work and were looking at the three of them with unconcealed interest, bordering on hunger. 
如果她的下巴没有被夹住，赫敏觉得她可能生病了。此时，周围的大部分办公桌都停止了假装工作，都以毫不掩饰的兴趣看着他们三人，近乎饥饿。

By Harry’s side, his hand clenched into a tight fist but his voice was controlled and cold as he spoke. “You don’t know what you’re talking about, Smythe. Have you forgotten everything she did? For you? For the Wizarding World?”
在哈利身边，他的手紧紧握成拳头，但他说话时声音却很克制，很冷。“你不知道你在说什么，史密斯。你忘了她做过的一切吗？给你的？为了魔法世界？

Pink blotches developed on Smythe’s sallow cheeks. He was being told off by Harry Potter in front of everyone and the humiliating reality of that was clearly setting in. Unfortunately, his response was to double down because while no one else was agreeing with him, they hadn’t jumped in to stop him either.
Smythe 蜡黄的脸颊上出现了粉红色的斑点。他被哈利·波特当着所有人的面训斥了一顿，而这令人羞辱的现实显然正在显现。不幸的是，他的反应是加倍努力，因为虽然没有其他人同意他的观点，但他们也没有跳出来阻止他。

“Has she ?” he snapped, sparing Hermione a disgusted look. “Or maybe she’s realised that she can’t ride your cloak tails anymore and decided she’d better start finding ways to get galleons from the other side?”
“她吗？”他厉声说，不让赫敏厌恶地看一眼。“或者她已经意识到她不能再骑你的斗篷尾巴了，并决定她最好开始想办法从另一边弄来大帆船？”

Hermione was ready to jump on Smythe when Harry slammed a hand down on his desk, making her flinch. His green eyes, even more striking when his face was so pale with tiredness, blazed behind his glasses.
赫敏正准备跳到斯迈斯身上，这时哈利用一只手猛地砸在他的桌子上，让她畏缩了一下。他那双绿色的眼睛，当他的脸色因疲惫而苍白时，显得更加引人注目，在他的眼镜后面闪闪发光。

“I would be dead without her,” he barked into Smythe’s increasingly red face. “A hundred times over.” Noticing all of the eyes on them, Harry straightened his posture and, his voice dripping with disdain, said, “Don’t talk about things you don’t understand, Smythe. You’re making yourself look stupid.”
“没有她，我早就死了，”他对着Smythe越来越红的脸吼道。“超过一百倍。”注意到所有的目光都注视着他们，哈利挺直了姿势，他的声音里带着轻蔑，说道，“不要谈论你不明白的事情，史密斯。你让自己看起来很愚蠢。

Trying to keep her breathing even and calm, Hermione met Harry’s eyes as he turned to her. “Lunch?” he asked, acting like Smythe had disappeared or had never even been there in the first place. 
赫敏努力让她的呼吸保持平稳和平静，当哈利转向她时，她与哈利的眼睛对上了。“吃午饭吗？”他问道，表现得好像Smythe已经消失了，或者根本就没出现过一样。

Nodding, Hermione snatched her bag from the desk and, without another glance at Smythe, hurried out of the department with her head held high and Harry walking in her wake. 
赫敏点点头，从桌子上抓起她的包，没有多看斯迈斯一眼，昂首挺胸地匆匆离开了部门，哈利跟在她身后。

Lucius was writing when Hermione blew into his study. Glancing up, his greeting died on his lips when she made a beeline for his drinks table without even looking in his direction. Slowly setting his quill down, he watched her back with fascination as she grumbled and clinked , her movements hidden to him. When she turned, she had a bottle of good brandy in one hand and a crystal glass in the other. 
卢修斯正在写作，赫敏闯进了他的书房。抬头看了一眼，当她直奔他的酒桌时，他的问候在他的嘴唇上消失了。他慢慢地放下羽毛笔，着迷地看着她的背影，她咕哝着，叮叮当当，她的动作对他来说是隐藏的。当她转身时，她一只手拿着一瓶上好的白兰地，另一只手拿着一个水晶杯。

Marching towards his desk, she sat the glass down with a blink-inducing thud on the wood and poured herself a drink. Lucius’ eyebrows rose in line with the volume of liquid but she paid him no mind. Satisfied, she pushed the bottle aside and, glass in hand, dropped heavily into the seat across from him to take a long drink. 
她走向他的书桌，把杯子坐下来，眨眼间砰的一声敲打着木头，然后给自己倒了一杯饮料。卢修斯的眉毛随着液体的体积而上扬，但她并不在意他。她心满意足地把瓶子推到一边，手里拿着玻璃杯，沉重地坐在他对面的座位上，大口大口地喝了一口。

“Trying day?” he asked, his voice light as he observed her face contort in response to the strength of the brandy. 
“艰难的一天吗？”他问道，当他观察到她的脸因白兰地的强度而扭曲时，他的声音很轻。

Shooting him a sardonic look over the rim of her glass, she took a much smaller drink before setting it on the desk with far greater care than she had before. “I had an extremely irritating encounter with an Auror.”
她从杯沿讥讽地看了他一眼，喝了一小口，然后比以前小心翼翼地把它放在桌子上。“我和一位傲罗有过一次非常恼火的遭遇。”

“Oh, well, I can sympathise only too well with that ,” he said, earning himself a raised eyebrow from her. “Tell me.”
“哦，好吧，我对此非常同情，”他说，赢得了她扬起的眉毛。“告诉我。”

As Hermione recounted her brief but horrific interaction with Smythe, Lucius’ brow lowered with every word. Reaching across the desk, he lifted her glass of brandy and took a long drink for himself. 
当赫敏讲述她与史密斯短暂而可怕的互动时，卢修斯的每一个字都低下了眉头。他把手伸到桌子对面，举起她的白兰地杯，为自己喝了一大口。

“He had the audacity to imply that you might be bribing me,” she said, impatiently gesturing for him to pass the brandy back, which he did immediately. 
“他竟然大胆地暗示你可能在贿赂我，”她说，不耐烦地示意他把白兰地递回去，他立即照做了。

Lucius scoffed and leaned back in his seat, his elbows on its arms. “Well, I would do that but even before we were well acquainted I could tell that would never work on you,” he said with a dismissive wave of his hand. “He's clearly an idiot, Hermione.”
卢修斯嗤之以鼻，向后靠在座位上，手肘搭在座位的手臂上。“嗯，我会这样做的，但即使在我们很熟悉之前，我就知道这对你绝对不起作用，”他轻蔑地挥了挥手说。“他显然是个白痴，赫敏。”

“An idiot with a loud mouth,” she muttered into her glass, shuddering as she recalled all the curious eyes of the other DMLE employees. Closing her eyes she took another long drink, her nose wrinkling.
“一个大嘴巴的白痴，”她对着杯子咕哝着，回想起其他 DMLE 员工所有好奇的眼神，她不寒而栗。她闭上眼睛，又喝了一大口水，鼻子皱了起来。

“Yes, well, those two traits do have an unfortunate tendency to coincide,” Lucius replied, eyeing her worriedly. As soon as she deposited the glass back on the desk, he pulled it towards himself again, just out of her reach. 
“是的，嗯，这两个特征确实有一种不幸的重合倾向，”卢修斯回答道，担忧地看着她。她一把杯子放回桌子上，他就又把它拉向自己，刚好够不到。

“Harry defended me,” she said, leaning her elbow on the arm of her chair and dropping her face into her hand. “But I’m worried it made him look bad –” She peered up at him, her right eye half-concealed by her fingers. “He’s going for head of department and I just…” Burying her head again, she groaned.
“哈利保护了我，”她说，用手肘靠在椅子的扶手上，把脸埋在手里。“但我担心这会让他看起来很糟糕——”她抬头凝视着他，右眼被手指半遮住。“他要竞选系主任，而我只是......”她再次埋下头，呻吟着。

“If he wants to be head of the Auror department, telling jumped-up imbeciles they’ve come to the wrong conclusion will be half the job,” Lucius said. “If anything, he just proved why he should get it.”
“如果他想成为傲罗部门的负责人，告诉那些跳起来的低能儿他们得出了错误的结论就成功了，”卢修斯说。“如果有的话，他只是证明了为什么他应该得到它。”

When Hermione didn’t do anything but moan and continue to hide her face, Lucius looked down into the brandy glass, his heart sinking. Lifting the glass to his lips, he threw the last of the brandy back. “Look, if this is going to be a problem, Hermione, then I am going to step back and –”
当赫敏除了呻吟并继续掩面时，卢修斯低头看着白兰地玻璃杯，他的心沉了下去。他把杯子举到嘴边，把最后一瓶白兰地扔回去。“听着，如果这会是个问题，赫敏，那我就退后一步，然后——”

“Shut up, please, Lucius,” she said, finally lifting her head to fix him with a steely look.
“闭嘴，拜托了，卢修斯，”她说，终于抬起头，用坚毅的眼神盯着他。

“Excuse me, I –”
“对不起，我——”

“I’m upset,” she said. “It was upsetting. But I won’t let you try to do that manipulative thing where you wrangle with the unfamiliarity of guilt by pushing me away, claiming it’s for me when it’s actually just a way to punish yourself. I’m tired and I can’t be arsed with it.”
“我很沮丧，”她说。“这很令人沮丧。但我不会让你尝试做那种操纵性的事情，你通过推开我来与陌生的内疚感发生争执，声称这是为了我，而实际上这只是惩罚自己的一种方式。我累了，我不能为此感到愤怒。

Opening his mouth, Lucius gave up on the words he was trying to find and huffed out an offended sigh. Crooking two fingers, he gestured to the brandy bottle and Hermione pushed it over the desk towards him. 
卢修斯张开嘴，放弃了他试图找到的词语，并冒犯地叹了口气。他用两根手指指着白兰地瓶子，赫敏把它从桌子上推向他。

“We’re working together,” she said, watching him pour a much smaller measure than she had. “And the result of that work will be a reduction in your sentence. People will get used to the idea that you’re going to be free. They’ll get used to the idea that I helped make it happen.” She paused, pursing her lips. “They’ll have to.”
“我们正在一起工作，”她说，看着他倒出的量比她小得多。“这项工作的结果将是减刑。人们会习惯你自由的想法。他们会习惯我帮助实现它的想法。她停顿了一下，抿起了嘴唇。“他们必须这样做。”

Lowering the glass from his lips, Lucius held up a finger and began searching his desk. “You’ve reminded me,” he said grimly. “I saw something this morning that might help with that.” He extracted a copy of the Prophet from beneath a heavy legal book and slid it over to Hermione. “Page five,” he explained, with a ‘go on’ gesture before he sat back in his chair and took another drink. 
Lucius放下嘴里的酒杯，举起一根手指，开始搜索他的桌子。“你提醒过我了，”他严肃地说。“我今天早上看到了一些可能有助于解决这个问题的东西。”他从一本沉重的法律书下面抽出一本先知，把它滑给赫敏。“第五页，”他解释道，做了个“继续”的手势，然后坐回椅子上，又喝了一杯。

With a curious look up at him, Hermione opened the paper and flicked through it. On reaching page five she had no further questions. Sandwiched between a handful of other articles in the middle of the page was the headline “An Unlikely Alliance” in thick, black print. Beneath it, were two pictures: one of Hermione and one of Lucius. 
赫敏好奇地抬头看了他一眼，打开了那张纸，翻了翻。读到第五页时，她没有再问什么了。夹在页面中间的几篇其他文章之间的是粗黑字的标题“一个不太可能的联盟”。在它下面，有两张照片：一张是赫敏的，一张是卢修斯的。

Pulling the paper closer, Hermione leaned forward. “ Today, the Ministry of Magic announced that it has brought together two highly unlikely figures to work on an as-yet undetailed project as part of Minister for Magic, Kingsley Shacklebolt’s, efforts to —” 
赫敏把纸拉得更近，身体前倾。“今天，魔法部宣布，它已经召集了两个极不可能的人物，作为魔法部长金斯利·沙克尔博尔特努力的一部分，从事一个尚未详细项目的工作——”

“Oh,” she said, glancing up at Lucius from beneath her brow to find his eyebrows raised in anticipation of her reaction. 
“哦，”她说，从眉毛下抬头瞥了一眼卢修斯，发现他扬起了眉毛，期待着她的反应。

“Imagine my surprise,” he said dryly, “when I found out that it was the Ministry that brought us together. Is there nothing it can’t do?”
“想象一下，”他干巴巴地说，“当我发现是魔法部把我们聚集在一起时，我感到多么惊讶。它没有做不到的事情吗？

Hermione snorted. “Yes, Kingsley said he might do this. Apparently, us working together could be a good look for the Ministry. Makes it look like a uniting force.”
赫敏哼了一声。“是的，金斯利说他可能会这样做。显然，我们一起工作可能会给教育部带来好处。让它看起来像一股团结的力量。

“Speaking of good looks,” Lucius added, setting his brandy down and leaning forward. “Is there any reason they used my Azkaban mugshot?” 
“说到好看，”卢修斯补充道，放下他的白兰地，身体前倾。“他们有什么理由用我的阿兹卡班大头照吗？”

Clamping her hand over her mouth, Hermione attempted to muffle an incredulous laugh when she noticed that was indeed the case. Beside a very pretty photo of her laughing and waving out of the page was a very unkempt and angry Lucius dressed in black and white. 
赫敏用手捂住嘴巴，试图压制住难以置信的笑声，但她注意到情况确实如此。在一张她大笑和挥手的照片旁边，是一个非常蓬头垢面、生气的卢修斯，穿着黑白衣服。

“Hardly my best look,” he said, sharply pulling the paper back over the desk and closing it so that he didn’t have to look at the article or his own face anymore. 
“可不是我最好看的样子，”他说，猛地把报纸拉回桌子上，然后合上它，这样他就不必再看那篇文章或自己的脸了。

“I’m sure they had their reasons.”
“我敢肯定他们有他们的理由。”

“Yes, and as soon as I’m free I’ll be stopping by the offices of the Prophet to hear them,” he said darkly. “Perhaps I’ll pay Auror Smythe a visit, too.”
“是的，一旦我有空，我就会去先知的办公室听他们说话，”他阴沉地说。“也许我也要去拜访傲罗斯迈斯。”

Hermione’s smile slipped. “Lucius.”
赫敏的笑容滑落了。“卢修斯。”

“I love you,” he reminded her, like it was some kind of explanation or justification. 
“我爱你，”他提醒她，就像是某种解释或辩解。

“So, you’ll try not to end up with another Azkaban mugshot, yes?”
“所以，你尽量不要再拍一张阿兹卡班的头像，对吧？”

Rolling his tongue in his mouth, he considered her for a moment then nodded. “Being an Auror is a very dangerous job.” Lifting his glass between his forefinger and thumb, he gave her a sarcastic smile. “I’m sure someone will get there before me.”
他在嘴里滚动着舌头，考虑了她一会儿，然后点了点头。“当傲罗是一份非常危险的工作。”他用食指和拇指举起酒杯，对她露出一个讽刺的微笑。“我相信有人会比我先到达那里。”

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

THANK YOU! The support and lovely comments and kudos are just everything. Thank you.
谢谢！支持、可爱的评论和赞誉就是一切。谢谢。

Chapter 39
第三十九章Chapter Summary
本章小结

It's Christmas!
今天是圣诞节！

Chapter Notes
章节注释

The next few of chapters will move us a little further forward through time. Thanks so much for your lovely comments - we love love!
接下来的几章将推动我们在时间中更进一步。非常感谢您的可爱评论 - 我们热爱爱！

December 25th 
12 月 25 日

 

“Are you sure we can’t keep you?”
“你确定我们留不住你吗？”

The Weasleys were all gathered around the fireplace in Harry and Ginny’s sitting room, preparing to see Hermione off. All with the exception of Molly, who had declared that there were simply too many enchanted utensils to be supervised in the kitchen for her to take a moment away. 
韦斯莱一家都聚集在哈利和金妮客厅的壁炉旁，准备为赫敏送行。除了莫莉，她宣称厨房里有太多的魔法用具需要看管，她不能抽出片刻时间。

Hermione wasn't entirely surprised – she was leaving after the Weasley Christmas dinner to spend the night with the Malfoys at their manor and Molly wasn't entirely on board.
赫敏并不完全惊讶——她要在韦斯莱圣诞大餐后离开，去和马尔福一家在他们的庄园过夜，而莫丽并不完全同意。

It was only in anticipation of her Christmas arrangements that Hermione had finally decided to announce her relationship with Lucius to the wider Weasley family. While the revelation had not, as Ron and Ginny had gloomily predicted, resulted in the untimely deaths of Molly and Arthur, reactions had been mixed. 
只是在期待她的圣诞节安排时，赫敏才终于决定向更广泛的韦斯莱家族宣布她与卢修斯的关系。虽然这一发现并没有像罗恩和金妮悲观地预测的那样导致莫莉和亚瑟的英年早逝，但人们的反应却喜忧参半。

Molly had, of course, looked to Ron with a frankly alarming aggressiveness and asked him what he thought about it. When he'd shrugged, she'd asked him what he was going to do about it. And when he'd said "Nothing, mum!", she'd stormed out of the room. Ever since, she'd just pretended it wasn't happening and, actually, Hermione found she could deal with that because Molly wasn't accompanying it with her usual spate of passive aggressive slights. Well, with the exception of not saying farewell.
当然，莫莉以一种坦率地说令人担忧的咄咄逼人地看着罗恩，问他对此有何看法。当他耸耸肩时，她问他打算怎么做。当他说“没什么，妈妈！”时，她已经冲出了房间。从那以后，她就假装这件事没有发生，实际上，赫敏发现她可以处理这个问题，因为莫莉并没有伴随着她一贯的被动攻击性轻视。嗯，除了不说再见。

Percy had been the least incredulous. Having rubbed shoulders with Malfoy at the Ministry, he had readily pointed out that "the man can be charming when he wants", giving Hermione an understanding if irritatingly pitying look before he raised his book back in front of his face.
珀西是最不怀疑的。在魔法部与马尔福擦肩而过后，他欣然指出“这个男人可以随心所欲地迷人”，给了赫敏一个理解的眼神，虽然令人恼火地怜悯，然后他把书举回了他的面前。

George had transitioned from genuinely outraged disgust to jokes and not-so-tongue-in-cheek enquiries about Malfoy's potential as a Weasley’s Wizard Wheezes investor remarkably quickly. 
乔治已经从真正愤怒的厌恶转变为关于马尔福作为韦斯莱巫师喘息投资者的潜力的笑话和不那么半开玩笑的询问，速度非常快。

“How much of the wealth is actually gold , though, Hermione?” he’d asked, hands clasped as he’d leaned across the Burrow’s kitchen table towards her. “Are we talking a vault packed with galleons or has he just got assets coming out of his –” Only a sharp thwack with a tea towel on the back of his head from Ginny had stopped him.
“不过，赫敏，这些财富到底有多少是黄金呢？”他问道，双手紧握，隔着陋居的厨房桌子向她靠去。“我们说的是一个装满大帆船的金库，还是他刚刚从他的——”只有金妮用茶巾在他的后脑勺上猛烈地敲打阻止了他。

Arthur and Charlie, meanwhile, had given her very little reaction, which she interpreted as quiet if unenthusiastic support. When George had reminded his father that he had once knocked Lucius around the head in Flourish and Blotts, his tone suggesting that Arthur might want to do that again, Arthur had simply gone ruddy and said, “that was a long time ago, George.”  
与此同时，亚瑟和查理对她的反应很少，她将其解释为安静但并不热情的支持。当乔治提醒他的父亲，他曾经在Flourish and Blotts中敲过卢修斯的头时，他的语气暗示亚瑟可能想再做一次，亚瑟只是红润地说，“那是很久以前的事了，乔治。

Bill and Fleur were still coming around. It was, perhaps, because it had been them who had cared for her in the immediate aftermath of her ordeal at Malfoy Manor. They had seen her injuries, her tears, her haunted expression. They had fed her Dreamless Sleep. And they had not forgotten it. 
比尔和芙蓉仍然在身边。也许，是因为在她在马尔福庄园遭受磨难后，他们立即照顾了她。他们看到了她的伤势，她的眼泪，她萦绕不去的表情。他们喂饱了她的无梦睡眠。他们并没有忘记。

They, therefore, could not be convinced with words alone. Instead, each passing week which brought evidence of Hermione staying healthy and happy whilst being in a relationship with Lucius helped them slowly defrost.
因此，他们不能只用言语来说服他们。相反，赫敏在与卢修斯的关系中保持健康和快乐的证据每过一周都帮助他们慢慢解冻。

“I appreciate that, Harry,” Hermione said with a cheery smile as she reached for the bag of Floo Powder on their mantle. “But ‘tis the season for sharing and giving.” 
“我很感激，哈利，”赫敏一边开心地笑着说，一边伸手去拿他们斗篷上的飞路粉袋。“可是，现在是分享和给予的季节。”

“Feels a bit wrong to be giving the Malfoys a Muggleborn, though, doesn’t it?” asked George, looking around at his family uneasily. “Got a touch of the sacrificial offerings about it.”
“不过，给马尔福一家一个麻瓜出身的感觉有点不对劲，不是吗？”乔治问道，不安地环顾着他的家人。“稍微了解一下关于它的祭品。”

There was a dark murmur of agreement from Ron, Bill and Charlie, while Percy and Arthur appeared to be trying their hardest not to react at all. 
罗恩、比尔和查理发出了一阵同意的低语，而珀西和亚瑟似乎在尽最大努力不做出反应。

“Don’t let him unwrap you straight away,” Ginny said, drawing closer to fix Hermione’s dress at the waist. “Make him work for it.”
“别让他马上解开你的包裹，”金妮说，一边凑近去把赫敏的裙子固定在腰间。“让他为此努力。”

“Ginny!” came the collective groan of the Weasley boys and Harry.
“金妮！” 韦斯莱男孩和哈利集体呻吟起来。

Ignoring them, Ginny fixed her with a smile that was barely pained. She had, Hermione thought, been magnificent in her support and Hermione wasn’t sure she’d ever be able to truly express how grateful she was.
金妮无视他们，用一个几乎没有痛苦的微笑注视着她。赫敏想，她对她的支持非常出色，赫敏不确定她是否能够真正表达她有多么感激。

Swallowing a lump in her throat, Hermione lifted her eyes from Ginny to scan the gathered Weasleys and gave them a wave. 
赫敏咽下喉咙里的一团东西，把目光从金妮身上抬起，扫视着聚集在一起的韦斯莱一家，然后向他们挥了挥手。

“Don’t forget the New Year’s walk!” Ron reminded her as the fire lit his face with a green glow. “You’re on tea duty.”
“别忘了新年散步！”罗恩提醒她，火光照亮了他的脸。“你在值茶。”

“I won’t!” And with that, she stepped neatly into the fireplace and vanished in a burst of flame.
“我不会的！”“说完，她利落地走进壁炉，消失在一阵火焰中。

When Hermione arrived in the Malfoy Manor library, it was empty and the dim, lingering green glow of the fire was the only light source. Squinting at her watch, she realised she was around half an hour earlier than she’d told Lucius to expect her – she’d built in some buffer time in case the Weasleys were a little more insistent that she stayed. 
当赫敏到达马尔福庄园图书馆时，图书馆里空无一人，昏暗的、挥之不去的绿色火光是唯一的光源。她眯着眼睛看了看手表，意识到自己比她告诉卢修斯的等待时间早了大约半小时——她已经安排了一些缓冲时间，以防韦斯莱一家更坚持要她留下来。

Biting her lip, Hermione contemplated the unappealing prospect of sitting in the freezing library for half an hour to wait for Lucius to come looking for her. Adjusting her handbag on her shoulder, she whispered “Letty?” into the room. 
赫敏咬着嘴唇，想着在冰冷的图书馆里坐上半个小时，等卢修斯来找她，这是多么不吸引人的前景。她调整了一下肩上的手提包，对着房间低声说：“莱蒂？

Barely a second later, a loud crack signalled Letty’s arrival. “Hermione Granger is early!” was her shrill greeting, her high voice echoing in the library. “Master will be most surprised." Her eyes widened. "But pleased! Pleased, of course, for he was just telling the young master that Miss would not be long and now that Miss is here Letty can –”
仅仅过了一秒钟，一声响亮的噼啪声标志着莱蒂的到来。“赫敏·格兰杰来得早了！”她尖锐的问候，她高亢的声音在图书馆里回荡。“师父会非常惊讶。”她睁大了眼睛。“但很高兴！当然，他很高兴，因为他只是告诉少爷，小姐不会太久了，现在小姐来了，莱蒂可以——”

“Merry Christmas, Letty,” Hermione cut in, keen to bring Letty’s explanatory ramble to a neat conclusion.
“圣诞快乐，莱蒂，”赫敏打断了她，急切地想把莱蒂的解释性漫谈画上一个简洁的句号。

With a soft gasp, Letty bowed so low her nose almost touched the ground, fortunately missing Hermione’s instinctive cringe as she did so. It was always going to be a hard thing to accept. “Merry Christmas to Hermione Granger.” 
莱蒂轻轻地喘息着，低低地低下了头，她的鼻子几乎碰到了地面，幸运的是，她这样做时错过了赫敏本能的畏缩。这总是一件很难接受的事情。“祝赫敏·格兰杰圣诞快乐。”

“Would you mind taking me to the master?” she asked. “I’m not sure where they spend their Christmasses and Lucius didn’t exactly say…” 
“你介意带我去见主人吗？”“我不确定他们在哪里度过圣诞节，卢修斯也没有确切地说......”

“Yes, yes.” Letty nodded enthusiastically, her ears waggling. “Of course. Hermione Granger must follow Letty.” 
“是的，是的。”莱蒂热情地点点头，她的耳朵晃动着。“当然。赫敏·格兰杰必须跟着莱蒂。

Letty snapped her legs together and straightened her back in a way that reminded Hermione of a nutcracker, before walking at an impressively fast pace towards the door. Hermione hurried after her, her low heels clicking loudly against the floor. 
莱蒂把双腿并拢，挺直了背，让赫敏想起了胡桃夹子，然后以惊人的速度向门口走去。赫敏急忙跟在她后面，她的低跟鞋在地板上发出响亮的咔哒声。

“So, where are they, Letty?” Hermione asked conversationally as they wound their way through the far more brightly lit corridors of the manor. “The dining room?”
“那么，他们在哪里，莱蒂？”赫敏在他们蜿蜒穿过庄园灯火通明得多的走廊时，交谈着问道。“餐厅？”

“No, Miss. The family is in the drawing room now,” squeaked Letty, not noticing that Hermione’s pace immediately slowed. “Although Miss is right; the Master said that they is to move into the dining room before Hermione Granger arrives but now that Miss is here he might – Miss?”
“不，小姐。一家人现在都在客厅里，“莱蒂吱吱作响，没有注意到赫敏的步伐立刻放慢了。“虽然小姐是对的;主人说他们要在赫敏·格兰杰到来之前搬进餐厅，但现在小姐在这里，他可能会——小姐？

Hermione had slowed to a stop in the middle of the corridor, an uneasy roiling in her stomach that made her worry she would shortly get another look at that third yorkshire pudding Molly had forced onto her plate. “The drawing room?” 
赫敏放慢了脚步，停在了走廊中间，一阵不安在她的胃里翻腾着，让她担心自己很快就会再看一眼莫莉强行放在她盘子里的第三个约克郡布丁。“客厅？”

“Yes,” said Letty, her wrinkles deepening as she frowned. “If Miss would like to come, Letty is taking Miss.”
“是的，”莱蒂说，她的皱纹随着她的皱眉而加深。“如果小姐想来，莱蒂就带小姐去。”

Swallowing, Hermione hesitated. The drawing room. In the many months since it had last been brought up to her, she still hadn’t revisited it and Lucius hadn’t once pressed it. The fact that Letty had said that he was planning to move their evening into the dining room before Hermione’s arrival suggested that he hadn’t planned to press it tonight either. 
吞咽着，赫敏犹豫了。客厅。自从上次向她提起这件事以来的好几个月里，她仍然没有重新审视它，卢修斯也从未催促过它。莱蒂说他打算在赫敏到来之前把他们的晚上搬到餐厅，这一事实表明他也不打算今晚再坚持下去。

That they were going to move from their usual room for her and just pretend that it was normal didn’t sit all that well with Hermione. She was appreciative, of course, but it made it feel like they were…tiptoeing around her and that she did not like. Not only that, Hermione hated the idea that she would be forcing Astoria to move – she had rallied admirably after giving birth but she still weakened easily and Hermione didn’t relish the idea of effectively forcing her from a comfortable position.
他们要从她平常的房间里搬走，只是假装这很正常，这让赫敏不太舒服。她当然很感激，但这让感觉他们很感激......蹑手蹑脚地绕着她走，她不喜欢。不仅如此，赫敏还讨厌她会强迫阿斯托利亚移动的想法——她在生完孩子后恢复得令人钦佩，但她仍然很容易虚弱，赫敏不喜欢有效地将她从舒适的位置逼走的想法。

“Yes,” Hermione finally said, forcing her legs back into action with the sense that she was unsticking her soles from the thick carpet. “Sorry, Letty, carry on.”
“是的，”赫敏终于说了，强迫她的双腿重新开始活动，感觉就像她正在从厚厚的地毯上解开她的鞋底。“对不起，Letty，继续。”

When they finally reached the drawing room door, Hermione’s heart was firmly in the pit of her stomach, beating out a dirge of dread. 
当他们终于走到客厅门口时，赫敏的心紧紧地抿在她的肚子里，发出了一首恐惧的挽歌。

“Letty will leave Miss here,” Letty said, gesturing to the door and dipping a curtsey. “Would Miss like a drink brought by Letty?”
“莱蒂会把小姐留在这里，”莱蒂说，指着门口行了个屈膝礼。“小姐要不要请莱蒂来一杯饮料？”

God yes . Unsticking her tongue from the roof of her mouth, Hermione gave Letty a smile that was supposed to be grateful but likely looked like she was suffering from toothache. “Yes, please. That’d be lovely, Letty. A glass of red wine, if you don't mind.” A big one.
上帝是的。赫敏从上颚伸出舌头，向莱蒂露出一个本应感激的微笑，但看起来她似乎牙疼。“是的，拜托了。那太好了，莱蒂。一杯红酒，如果你不介意的话。一个大问题。

Curtseying once again, Letty disappeared with a crack , leaving Hermione and the door alone. It was plain black with a round, polished brass handle – almost insultingly innocuous. Curling her toes in her shoes, she took several steadying breaths. She didn’t have to go in. She could just call for Lucius and tell him that she was here. He wouldn’t judge her. She didn’t have to. 
莱蒂再次屈膝行礼，啪啪一声消失了，只剩下赫敏和门。它是纯黑色的，有一个圆形的抛光黄铜手柄——几乎是侮辱性的无害。她把脚趾蜷缩在鞋子里，稳稳地呼吸了几次。她不必进去。她可以打电话给卢修斯，告诉他她在这里。他不会评判她。她不必这样做。

Glaring at the door, Hermione grit her teeth. Sometimes she hated being a Gryffindor. That mix of pride and an overwhelming desire to fly in the face of her fears had helped her through many difficult situations, certainly, but when she wasn’t in a life or life or death fix, she wondered if there wasn't a dimension of needless self-flagellation to it. 
赫敏瞪着门，咬牙切齿。有时她讨厌当格兰芬多。当然，这种自豪感和面对恐惧时飞翔的压倒望的混合帮助她度过了许多困难的情况，但当她不在生或生或死的解决中时，她想知道是否没有不必要的自我鞭笞的维度。

Taking two unsteady steps forward, Hermione set her hand on the handle and, when it didn’t burn her or attempt to bite her fingers, she decided that it was safe enough to turn. 
赫敏摇摇晃晃地向前走了两步，把手放在把手上，当把手没有灼伤她或试图咬她的手指时，她决定转动它已经足够安全了。

Breath held, her free hand clenched so tightly that her fingernails were in danger of poking through her knuckles, Hermione pushed her way into the room. 
赫敏屏住呼吸，空出来的手紧紧地握着，指甲有戳穿指关节的危险，赫敏推门走进了房间。

It was somehow exactly the same and utterly foreign. 
不知何故，它完全一样，而且完全陌生。

The layout, the floors, the walls – she recognised them all. But with a roaring fire on the far left and a towering, lushly decorated Christmas tree against the back wall, everything was warmer and more inviting. It didn’t smell like dust, sweat and death – there was a hint of frankincense mixed with pine and camphor from the tree.
布局、地板、墙壁——她都认得了。但是，最左边是熊熊燃烧的火焰，后墙上有一棵高耸、装饰华丽的圣诞树，一切都变得更加温暖和诱人。它闻起来不像灰尘、汗水和死亡——有一丝乳香与树上的松树和樟脑混合在一起。

Sweeping her gaze across the room from the doorway, she finally spied the Malfoys gathered around the seating area at the fireplace. The sound of the door opening prompted them to look around at her and there was a momentary stunned silence before Lucius sprung into action. Shoving his glass of wine into Draco’s hand, he strode across the room towards her, his face tight with concern. 
她从门口扫过房间，终于看到了聚集在壁炉旁休息区的马尔福一家。开门的声音促使他们环顾四周，在卢修斯突然行动起来之前，一阵震惊的沉默。他把酒杯塞到德拉科的手里，大步穿过房间向她走来，脸上带着担忧。

“Hermione.” It was remarkable that he could convey pleasure to see her, anger and worry all in one word. He placed his hands on her arms, holding her firmly. Over his shoulder, Draco and Astoria watched them apprehensively.
“赫敏。”他能用一个词来表达见到她的喜悦、愤怒和担忧，真是了不起。他把手放在她的手臂上，紧紧地抱着她。德拉科和阿斯托利亚在他的肩膀上忐忑不安地看着他们。

“Merry Christmas,” Hermione breathed, left slightly light-headed by her feat of daring. Or perhaps it was simply that she'd finally started breathing again after holding it for so long.
“圣诞快乐，”赫敏喘着气，因为她的大胆壮举而略微头晕目眩。或者，也许只是因为她在憋了这么久之后终于又开始呼吸了。

“You’re early,” Lucius said in a hurried undertone, like he was explaining himself. “We were going to – you don’t have to be here. We’re going to move to the dining room.” 
“你来得早，”卢修斯用匆忙的语气说，就像他在解释自己一样。“我们本来打算——你不必在这里。我们要搬到餐厅去。

He applied some pressure to her arms like he was going to try to push her back into the hall and Hermione dug her heels in, fixing him with a determined look. She had come this far. 
他对她的手臂施加了一些压力，就像他要试图把她推回走廊一样，赫敏把她的高跟鞋挖进去，用坚定的眼神盯着他。她已经走了这么远。

“No,” she said firmly. “No, we can stay here.”
“不，”她坚定地说。“不，我们可以留在这里。”

Lucius stopped, his tongue darting out to wet his lips, his eyes searching hers. "Are you entirely sure that's the best idea?"
卢修斯停了下来，他的舌头伸出来打湿了他的嘴唇，他的眼睛在她的嘴唇上寻找。“你完全确定这是最好的主意吗？”

"I am." Her gaze was steely while he remained unconvinced. “It’s Christmas and I had half a bottle of red wine with dinner; there’s no better time.”
“我是。”她的目光坚定，而他仍然不服气。“今天是圣诞节，我晚餐时喝了半瓶红酒;没有比这更好的时机了。

“Some might argue that’s impaired judgement.”
“有些人可能会说这是判断力受损。”

“‘Some’ might be better off not arguing anything,” she retorted. 
“'有些人'最好不要争论任何事情，”她反驳道。

Laughing once through his nose, Lucius pressed his lips in a thin line and scrutinised her. 
卢修斯从鼻子里笑了一下，把嘴唇抿成一条细线，仔细观察她。

"I'm here," she said. "I'm in the room." She held out her hands as though showing him just how much she was in the room. "And I'm fine."
“我在这里，”她说。“我在房间里。”她伸出双手，仿佛向他展示她在房间里有多少。“我很好。”

She was fine. Just fine. Even as her eyes strayed to the middle of the floor, recalling how hard, cold and uncomfortable it had been when Bellatrix had thrown her onto it, she was fine. Her lower back twinged. Fine .
她没事。很好。即使她的眼睛移向地板中央，回想起贝拉特里克斯把她扔到地板上时是多么的坚硬、冰冷和不舒服，她还是没事的。她的下背部抽搐着。 好。

Sighing, Lucius loosed his grip on her arms and passed the side of his hand over his forehead. "Alright, well…" He stepped aside, sweeping his arm out in welcome. As she walked past him, he brought a hand onto her lower back and joined her.
卢修斯叹了口气，松开了抓着她手臂的手，将手的一侧滑过了他的额头。“好吧，好吧......”他走到一边，伸出手臂表示欢迎。当她从他身边走过时，他把手放在她的下背部，加入了她的行列。

“Granger,” Draco said, throwing his father a questioning look as Hermione made her way towards him and Astoria by the fireplace. “I – the dining room is probably more comfortable, you know, perhaps we should –”
“格兰杰，”德拉科说，当赫敏在壁炉旁向他和阿斯托利亚走来时，他向父亲投来了质疑的眼神。“我——餐厅可能更舒适，你知道的，也许我们应该——”

“Merry Christmas,” Hermione said, gliding over his concern to wrap him in a tight hug. He stiffened and then, perhaps sensing that her being in the room was not up for discussion, softened enough to return the embrace. 
“圣诞快乐，”赫敏说，滑过他的担忧，紧紧地拥抱了他。他僵硬了一下，然后，也许是感觉到她在房间里不值得讨论，他软化了下来，以回报这个拥抱。

“Merry Christmas, Hermione,” Astoria called from the deep green cabriole sofa by the fire. In her arms Scorpius screeched happily, his legs kicking wildly against his cream blanket.
“圣诞快乐，赫敏，”阿斯托利亚在火炉旁的深绿色敞篷沙发上喊道。在她的怀里，斯科皮高兴地尖叫着，他的双腿疯狂地踢着他的奶油色毯子。

How could any room with Scorpius be threatening? Releasing Draco, Hermione bent to kiss Astoria's pale, soft cheek before placing a kiss on the top of Scorpius’ head. 
天蝎座的房间怎么会有威胁呢？放开德拉科，赫敏弯下腰亲吻阿斯托利亚苍白柔软的脸颊，然后在斯科皮的头顶上亲了一口。

The entire time, she could feel Lucius and Draco watching her, assessing her. She wanted to snap that making her feel like what she was doing was abnormal and ill-advised was not at all helpful. 
在整个过程中，她都能感觉到卢修斯和德拉科在看着她，打量着她。她想强调，让她觉得自己正在做的事情是不正常的和不明智的，这根本没有帮助。

Instead, she settled onto the sofa beside Astoria, letting her bag slide from her shoulder onto the cushion between them. Placing her hands on her knees, she gave them all a bright, if somewhat forced, smile.
相反，她坐在阿斯托利亚旁边的沙发上，让她的包从她的肩膀滑到他们之间的靠垫上。她把手放在膝盖上，向他们所有人露出一个灿烂的笑容，虽然有点勉强。

“How were the Weasleys?” Astoria asked, adjusting Scorpius in her arms so that he could sit up properly and look at Hermione, his grey eyes bright and curious.
“韦斯莱一家怎么样？”阿斯托利亚问道，调整了一下她怀里的斯科皮，让他可以坐起来，看着赫敏，他灰色的眼睛明亮而好奇。

“Wonderful,” Hermione said, grateful that Astoria was giving her something else to think about. “And rowdy. We had a busy morning.”
“太好了，”赫敏说，很感激阿斯托利亚给了她其他事情来考虑。“而且吵闹。我们度过了一个忙碌的早晨。

“How many times did they try to stop you coming here?” Draco asked as he crossed the room, whipping out his wand to move a couple of chairs from a free-standing chessboard over to the fireplace.
“他们试图阻止你来这里多少次？”德拉科一边穿过房间一边问道，一边抽出魔杖，把几把椅子从一个独立的棋盘上移到壁炉上。

“Just the once,” she said lightly. 
“就一次，”她淡淡地说。

Lucius scoffed, strolling behind the sofa as Hermione settled back into the cushions. Out of the corner of her eye, she spied his hands coming to lean on the back of the sofa, settling on either side of her shoulders. 
卢修斯嗤之以鼻，在沙发后面漫步，赫敏则坐回靠垫上。她用眼角的余光看到他的手靠在沙发背上，落在她肩膀的两侧。

Leaning down, he brought his mouth close to her ear. “You look very…" His thumb brushed gently against the velvet back of her dress. "Red."
他俯下身，把嘴凑近她的耳朵。“你看起来非常......”他的拇指轻轻地抚摸着她裙子的天鹅绒背面。“红色。”

Rolling her eyes, Hermione turned her head to catch his eye. “You couldn’t just make it a compliment, could you?”
赫敏翻了个白眼，转过头来对上他的眼睛。“你不能只是赞美它，对吧？”

“Lovely, of course. As always,” he smoothly assured her. “But red.” 
“当然很可爱。一如既往，“他平稳地向她保证。“但是红色。”

“It’s Christmas, Lucius."
“今天是圣诞节，卢修斯。”

“I do believe green is also a common colour for the holiday.” 
“我确实相信绿色也是节日的常见颜色。”

Leaning her head back further, she invited him to turn his ear towards her lips so that she could murmur, “You haven’t seen my underwear yet." As he turned slowly to look at her, she grinned when she saw his eyebrows raised. “Now who’s red?” 
她把头向后靠，让他把耳朵转向她的嘴唇，这样她就可以喃喃自语：“你还没看到我的内裤呢。当他慢慢转过身来看她时，她看到他扬起的眉毛时咧嘴一笑。“现在谁是红色的？”

“Still very much you."
“还是很像你。”

The sound of Draco clearing his throat made Lucius look up under his brow while Hermione jerked her head around with the air of having been caught, her curls brushing Lucius' cheek. Draco inclined his head towards the two chairs he'd placed across from the sofa and gave his father a pointed look. With a soft sigh through his nose that only Hermione could hear, Lucius pushed himself up and sauntered around the sofa to take a seat beside Draco and across from her. 
德拉科清清嗓子的声音让卢修斯在他的额头下抬起头来，而赫敏则像被抓住一样猛地扭过头来，她的卷发拂过卢修斯的脸颊。德拉科把头歪向他对面的两把椅子，尖锐地看了他父亲一眼。卢修斯用鼻子轻轻地叹了口气，只有赫敏能听到，他站起身来，绕着沙发走来走去，在德拉科身边，对面坐了下来。

A loud crack rent the air and Hermione gasped, her hand flying to her chest as though she might catch her heart as it burst out of it. When she saw Letty standing before her on the rug, holding out a glass of red wine, Hermione laughed, though it had a shade of panic in it.
一声响亮的裂缝划破了空气，赫敏喘着粗气，她的手飞向胸口，仿佛她可以在自己的心脏迸发出来时抓住它。当她看到莱蒂站在她面前的地毯上，拿出一杯红酒时，赫敏笑了起来，尽管里面有一丝恐慌。

“Letty,” Lucius said sternly, half-rising from his seat. “Do try not to –”
“莱蒂，”卢修斯严肃地说，半站着从座位上站起来。“尽量不要——”

“Lucius, no,” Hermione said, a vigorous shake of her head telling him to sit back. “It’s fine. Thank you, Letty. I'm sorry, I'm just a touch easy to startle tonight.”
“卢修斯，不，”赫敏说，用力摇头，让他坐下。“没关系。谢谢你，Letty。对不起，今晚我只是有点容易受到惊吓。

Ears twitching, the elf smiled uncertainly at Hermione as she reached out to take her red wine. They were all quiet while Letty moved around with fresh glasses for each of them. Keen to smooth the moment over, Hermione set her glass down by her feet and pulled her bag onto her lap so that she could rummage through it. 
耳朵抽搐着，小精灵对赫敏不确定地笑了笑，赫敏伸手拿起了她的红酒。他们都很安静，而 Letty 则为他们每个人拿着新的眼镜走来走去。赫敏急于让这一刻平息下来，她把杯子放在脚边，把包拉到腿上，这样她就可以翻找了。

"Now," she said with a conspiratorial air. "I know we said no presents but –" She pulled a soft stuffed lion from the bag. "I saw this and I had to."
“现在，”她带着阴谋论的语气说。“我知道我们说过没有礼物，但是——”她从袋子里掏出一只柔软的毛绒狮子。“我看到了这个，我不得不这样做。”

Spying the adorable lion, Scorpius let out a delighted squeal and Hermione grinned, holding it out to him. His pudgy hands inexpertly grabbed at it, clenching and unclenching. As soon as it was in his grasp, he pulled it into his chest and clung to it, its furry mane tickling his cheeks, while its spindly legs dangled uselessly. 
看着这只可爱的狮子，斯科皮高兴地尖叫了一声，赫敏咧嘴一笑，把它递给他。他胖乎乎的手不熟练地抓住它，握紧又松开。它一落入他的怀抱，他就把它拉进胸口紧紧抓住它，它毛茸茸的鬃毛在他的脸颊上搔痒，而它纤细的腿则毫无用处地垂着。

Astoria gazed adoringly down at her happy son. "Isn't that nice, Scorpius?" she asked,  pressing a kiss into his blonde hair. "Don't you love it?"
阿斯托利亚崇拜地低头凝视着她快乐的儿子。“那不是很好吗，斯科皮？”她问道，在他的金发上亲了一下。“你不喜欢吗？”

"That," Draco said, pointing accusingly at the lion, "is propaganda, Granger. Gryffindor propaganda. I won't have it in my home."
“那个，”德拉科指着狮子说，“是宣传，格兰杰。格兰芬多的宣传。我家里不会有它。

"Don't be ridiculous, Draco," Astoria scoffed, helping Scorpius to hold the lion more comfortably. "Thank you, Hermione. We love it."
“别荒谬了，德拉科，”阿斯托利亚嘲笑道，帮助斯科皮更舒适地抱着狮子。“谢谢你，赫敏。我们喜欢它。

"It is a little bit of Gryffindor propaganda," Hermione murmured, leaning into Astoria who snorted in response.
“这有点格兰芬多的宣传，”赫敏喃喃自语，靠向阿斯托利亚，阿斯托利亚哼了一声作为回应。

"You'd need to get him a menagerie of lions to outdo the Slytherin influence in this house," Astoria whispered back. "I mean, I was Slytherin too but even the cot mobile in the nursery is all snakes . I told Draco it was potentially traumatising but he said it hadn't done him any harm."
“你得给他找个狮子动物园，才能在这所房子里超越斯莱特林的影响力，”阿斯托利亚低声回答。“我的意思是，我也是斯莱特林，但即使是托儿所的婴儿床移动也全是蛇。我告诉德拉科这可能会造成创伤，但他说这并没有对他造成任何伤害。

Hermione eyed Lucius and Draco, both of whom had settled into the chairs opposite. They were speaking in undertones, leaning over the arms of the chairs so that their heads came close together in a manner that screamed 'scheming'. 
赫敏看着卢修斯和德拉科，他们都已经坐在对面的椅子上。他们低声说话，靠在椅子的扶手上，使他们的头靠得很近，发出了“诡计多端”的尖叫。

"That's debatable," Hermione said with an indicative nudge of her head, making Astoria titter. 
“这很值得商榷，”赫敏说，用指示性的方式轻推了一下她的头，让阿斯托利亚嘟嘟了一声。

"And how has your Christmas been so far?" Hermione asked, leaning down to pick up her wine again.
“那么到目前为止，你的圣诞节过得怎么样？”赫敏问道，俯下身去拿起她的酒。

"Oh, you know." Astoria smiled down at Scorpius leaning heavily into her middle. "An atrociously early start. Draco helped Scorpius unwrap more presents than any four-month old can really reasonably comprehend – though, between you and me, I think the unwrapping element was mostly for Draco." Hermione nodded sagely in agreement. "We had breakfast with Narcissa before she departed for her dinner party in France and then Letty served us our own dinner. It's all been very quiet but that's pleasant with Scorpius being so young and me being..." She cleared her throat. "Well, it's been pleasant."
“哦，你知道的。”阿斯托利亚低头对沉重地靠在她中间的斯科皮微笑。“一个可怕的早期开始。Draco 帮助 Scorpius 解开的礼物比任何四个月大的孩子都无法真正合理理解的要多——不过，在你我之间，我认为解开的元素主要是给 Draco 的。赫敏睿智地点点头表示同意。“在她动身去法国参加晚宴之前，我们和 Narcissa 一起吃了早餐，然后 Letty 为我们准备了自己的晚餐。一切都非常安静，但 Scorpius 这么年轻，而我......这很令人愉快。她清了清嗓子。“嗯，这很愉快。”

"Your family weren't…?"
“你家不是......？”

"We go to them tomorrow." She looked exhausted by the mere thought of it, her pale skin almost translucent in the glow of the fire, and Hermione felt a surge of sympathy; Christmas was tiring even when one was in the best of health.
“我们明天去找他们。”光是想到这件事，她就显得筋疲力尽，她苍白的皮肤在火光下几乎是半透明的，赫敏感到一阵同情;即使一个人身体健康，圣诞节也很累。

At that moment, Scorpius gave his lion such a vigorous, excited shake that it flew from his grip. Hitting the floor with a soft thump , it emitted a grumbling roar, drawing a scowl from Draco. A snuffling, tearful noise from Scorpius, however, prompted Draco to hurriedly set his glass down and lunge out of his seat to pick the lion up.
就在那一刻，斯科皮用力、兴奋地摇晃了他的狮子，狮子从他的手中飞了出去。轻轻的砰的一声撞在地板上，它发出了咕哝的咆哮，引来了德拉科的皱眉。然而，斯科皮发出的鼻息声、泪流满面的声音促使德拉科匆忙忙放下酒杯，从座位上冲出来把狮子抱起来。

On his knees before his wife, Draco gently pressed the lion back into Scorpius’ wildly swinging hands. “If this makes him a Gryffindor,” Draco said to Hermione, "I blame you."
德拉科跪在妻子面前，轻轻地将狮子压回斯科皮疯狂挥舞的手中。“如果这让他成为格兰芬多，”德拉科对赫敏说，“我怪你。

"There are far worse things to be, Draco," Lucius drawled, crossing his legs and raising his glass to his lips. When Draco looked around incredulously, Lucius raised his eyebrows and said, "A Hufflepuff, for instance," before taking a drink. 
“还有更糟糕的事情要糟糕得多，德拉科，”卢修斯抽搐着，交叉双腿，将酒杯举到嘴边。当德拉科难以置信地环顾四周时，卢修斯扬起眉毛说，“比如赫奇帕奇，”然后喝了一口。

"There's nothing wrong with being a Hufflepuff," Hermione said sternly, turning to Scorpius. "You'd make a fine Hufflepuff, Scorpius. You want to be hardworking and fair, don't you?"
“当赫奇帕奇没什么错，”赫敏严肃地说，转向斯科皮。“你会成为一个很好的赫奇帕奇，斯科皮。你想勤奋和公平，不是吗？

"Don't you dare," Draco snapped, wrapping a protective arm around Scorpius and Astoria, making his son shriek with laughter.
“你敢吗，”德拉科厉声说，用一只保护性的手臂搂住了斯科皮和阿斯托利亚，让他的儿子大笑起来。

Rolling her eyes, Hermione caught Lucius giving her a subtle smile over the rim of his glass. She smiled in return, her cheeks warming in a way that had nothing to do with her proximity to the fire. 
赫敏翻了个白眼，发现卢修斯在玻璃杯边缘给了她一个微妙的微笑。她也回以微笑，她的脸颊温暖起来，这与她离火堆的距离无关。

“Anyway, fancy a game of chess, Granger?” Draco huffed as he pushed himself up from his position on the floor. “I’ve heard from a fairly reliable source that you’re shit.”
“总之，想下一盘棋吗，格兰杰？”德拉科气喘吁吁地从地板上的位置站了起来。“我从一个相当可靠的消息来源听说你是狗屎。”

All fondness for Lucius draining from her expression, Hermione threw a glare at him but he simply pursed his lips and turned his gaze to the fire in a laughable attempt at innocence. 
赫敏对卢修斯的所有喜爱都从她的表情中消失了，她瞪了他一眼，但他只是抿了抿嘴唇，把目光转向火堆，以一种可笑的天真。

“You’re on, Malfoy,” she said, the prospect of a competition melting away the last of her discomfort.
“你来了，马尔福，”她说，比赛的前景消除了她最后的不适。

The drawing room was empty when Hermione entered it, almost entirely in darkness apart from the Christmas tree, which was still lit. But it didn’t look right to her. It didn’t look like the tree she’d spent the evening around. It was more like the tree her parents had put up every year – it had the same messy lights and it was too small for the large space. 
赫敏走进客厅时，客厅里空无一人，除了圣诞树还亮着，几乎完全是黑暗的。但她觉得这并不对劲。它看起来不像她整晚围着的那棵树。它更像是她父母每年都竖起来的那棵树——它有同样凌乱的灯光，对于大空间来说太小了。

“Lucius?” she called into the darkness, her voice echoing. She couldn’t remember why she was in the drawing room looking for him. Where had he gone? Had he asked her to meet him there? 
“卢修斯？”她在黑暗中喊道，她的声音回荡着。她不记得自己为什么在客厅里找他。他去哪儿了？他请她在那里见他吗？

She still didn’t like the room, especially without him. When he wasn’t there, there was nothing to offset her discomfort. No warmth. 
她还是不喜欢这个房间，尤其是没有他。当他不在时，没有什么可以抵消她的不适。没有温暖。

Something crunched beneath her feet and she looked down. Glass. No. Crystal? Lots of it. Following the trail of it, Hermione looked around and saw that the chandelier had fallen and smashed on the floor. It was huge, far larger than it looked when it had been hanging high above her. It reflected the Christmas lights from the tree, taking on an almost unreal shimmer. It hadn’t been smashed like that when she’d arrived, had it? No, the room had been empty. Hadn’t it?
有什么东西在她脚下嘎吱作响，她低头看去。玻璃。不。晶体？很多。顺着它的踪迹，赫敏环顾四周，发现吊灯已经掉了下来，砸在了地板上。它很大，比它高高悬挂在她头顶时看起来要大得多。它反射着树上的圣诞灯饰，呈现出一种几乎不真实的微光。她来的时候，它没有被砸成那样，对吧？不，房间里空无一人。不是吗？

“Mudblood.”
“泥巴种。”

Bellatrix. Her singsong voice crept up Hermione's back like a spider.
贝拉特里克斯。她的歌声像蜘蛛一样爬上赫敏的背。

"Mudblood."
“泥巴种。”

Like the darkness itself had spat her out, Bellatrix appeared before her. Time hadn’t changed her. She was still wearing the clothes in which she’d died. Carrying the wand that Hermione had…hadn’t she stolen it? And the knife. The knife.
就像黑暗本身把她吐了出来一样，贝拉特里克斯出现在她面前。时间并没有改变她。她还穿着她死时穿的衣服。拿着赫敏的魔杖......她不是偷了吗？还有那把刀。刀。

Frozen in place, Hermione tried to call for Lucius. Tried. She tried to shout or scream but her voice wouldn’t come and so all she could do was run. Turning on the spot, she looked for the door but there wasn’t one. Panicking, she ran towards where she thought it should be but she had barely taken two steps when she tripped over her own feet. 
赫敏僵在原地，试图叫卢修斯来。试。她试图大喊大叫，但她的声音传不来，所以她所能做的就是逃跑。她原地转身寻找门，但没有门。惊慌失措的她跑向她认为应该在的地方，但她还没走两步就被自己的脚绊倒了。

And then Bellatrix was on her, straddling her and pinning her to the floor. She was a wild thing, all crazed laughter and black curls. A blur of pure malevolence. Insults, threats and fists rained down on Hermione. With every hit, she expected to feel the cold pierce of a knife.
然后贝拉特里克斯就扑在她身上，跨坐在她身上，把她固定在地板上。她是个狂野的东西，全是疯狂的笑声和黑色的卷发。纯粹的恶意的模糊。侮辱、威胁和拳头如雨点般落在赫敏身上。每一次击打，她都以为会感觉到刀子的冰冷刺痛。

“Lucius!” Hermione finally managed to scream, his name torn out of her. She screamed his name over and over, crying, trying to lift her arms to protect herself from Bellatrix’s slaps and punches. Bellatrix grabbed Hermione’s hair and pushed her face into the floor. Through her tear-filled eyes she could see Lucius standing by the…the door. It had reappeared. He could get her out if he was by the door. But he was ghost-like, just staring. 
“卢修斯！”赫敏终于尖叫起来，他的名字从她身上被撕了下来。她一遍又一遍地喊着他的名字，哭泣着，试图抬起手臂以保护自己免受 Bellatrix 的耳光和拳打脚踢。贝拉特里克斯抓住赫敏的头发，把她的脸推到地板上。透过她充满泪水的眼睛，她可以看到卢修斯站在......门。它又出现了。如果他在门口，他可以把她救出来。但他就像鬼一样，只是盯着看。

Calling his name did nothing. He did nothing. Why was he doing nothing? 
叫他的名字也没用。他什么也没做。他为什么什么都没做？

“Mudblood,” Bellatrix sang over and over again, yanking thick strands of Hermione’s hair out of her head. Hermione struggled but it was useless – her body was somehow much too heavy for her to move but so light that it was easy, so terribly easy, for Bellatrix to pin her down. To hurt her.
“泥巴种，”贝拉特里克斯一遍又一遍地唱着，把赫敏浓密的头发从头上扯下来。赫敏挣扎着，但没用——她的身体不知何故太重了，她无法移动，但又如此轻盈，以至于贝拉特里克斯很容易，如此容易地将她压住。为了伤害她。

“Lucius,” Hermione sobbed breathlessly as Bellatrix raised the knife above her head. “Please. Please help me.”
“卢修斯，”赫敏上气不接下气地啜泣着，贝拉特里克斯把刀举过头顶。“拜托。请帮帮我。

The Christmas lights made the blade of the knife gleam as it arced through the air and Hermione let out a blood-curdling scream. And then the floor fell away and she was falling. Alone. Falling through the air. There was no Bellatrix – she had vanished along with the knife.
圣诞灯饰让刀刃在空中划出弧线，闪闪发光，赫敏发出了一声令人毛骨悚然的尖叫。然后地板掉下来了，她也开始跌倒。独自。从空中坠落。没有贝拉特里克斯——她和刀一起消失了。

The floor was back. Cold. A different floor. Stone. Pale. Familiar. Hermione drew a gasping breath like she had just emerged from deep underwater but before she could get any relief from it, it turned into a wracking sob. 
地板又回来了。冷。不同的楼层。石头。苍白。熟悉。赫敏喘着粗气，就像她刚刚从水下深处出来一样，但还没来得及缓解，就变成了一声痛苦的啜泣。

“Hermione.”
“赫敏。”

Lucius’ voice was urgent, concerned, and he was on his knees beside her. He was somehow the same and not the same as the Lucius who had just watched Bellatrix attack her. As he reached out a hand, Hermione swatted it away and attempted to scramble away, only to find herself trapped, her back pressed against the base of a bed. His bed. Their bed. The one they’d been sharing for months. Another gasping sob shook her body. 
卢修斯的声音急促而关切，他跪在她身边。他不知何故和刚刚看到贝拉特里克斯攻击她的卢修斯是一样的，而不是一样的。当他伸出一只手时，赫敏把它拍开，试图爬开，却发现自己被困住了，她的背压在床架上。他的床。他们的床。他们已经分享了几个月的那个。又一声喘息的抽泣使她的身体颤抖。

“Hermione.” He said her name with more softness but he didn’t try to touch her again. “It was a nightmare. It wasn’t real.”
“赫敏。”他更温柔地说着她的名字，但他没有试图再次触碰她。“这是一场噩梦。那不是真的。

It wasn’t real. It wasn’t real . Yet the tears wouldn’t stop coming. Hermione brought her knees up and curled into them. They were bare, the long t-shirt she wore to bed having tangled around her upper thighs.
那不是真的。这不是真的。然而，眼泪不会停止流淌。赫敏抬起膝盖，蜷缩在膝盖上。他们光秃秃的，她睡觉时穿的长T恤缠在她的大腿上部。

A rustle to her left indicated that Lucius was moving and she tensed in preparation for him to try to touch her again. Instead, he simply sat beside her on the floor, back leaning against the bed and let her cry. It could have been for minutes or hours. How long did it take to drain a lake?
她左侧的沙沙声表明卢修斯正在移动，她绷紧了身体，准备让他再次尝试触摸她。相反，他只是坐在她身边的地板上，背靠在床上，任由她哭泣。可能是几分钟或几小时。排干一个湖需要多长时间？

Eventually, she sank into him, her body exhausted by the emotion, and she let him guide her head down into his lap. Her body trembled and she tried to sniff but found her nose hopelessly blocked. Without a word, Lucius brushed the streams of tears from her cheeks, not stopping even as she took a long, shuddering breath that ended in a hiccup. 
最终，她沉入了他的身体，她的身体被这种情绪耗尽了，她让他引导她的头低到他的腿上。她的身体颤抖着，她试图嗅一闻，但发现她的鼻子无可救药地堵住了。卢修斯一言不发地拂去她脸颊上的泪水，即使她长长地吸了一口气，颤抖着，最后打了个嗝。

“You’re alright,” he murmured, pressing his hand to her forehead. It was clammy, she knew. She was too warm and yet freezing at the same time. Sticky and puffy. A cold sweat coated her body and she could feel her t-shirt sticking to her back, her hair clinging to her neck.
“你没事，”他喃喃自语，用手按在她的额头上。她知道，那里很湿。她太暖和了，但同时又很冷。粘稠和浮肿。冷汗浑身湿漉漉，她能感觉到自己的T恤贴在背上，头发紧贴着脖子。

Gently, Lucius lifted her head from his lap and sat her up. “We’re going to get up,” he explained when she looked confused. He gripped under her arms and she attempted to work with him but he did most of the work getting her to her feet. Sometimes she forgot he was strong. 
卢修斯轻轻地从他的腿上抬起她的头，让她坐起来。“我们要起来了，”当她看起来困惑时，他解释道。他紧紧抓住她的胳膊，她试图与他合作，但他完成了大部分工作，让她站起来。有时她忘记了他很坚强。

Seeming to decide that his plan wasn’t going to work, he lifted her into his arms. It couldn’t have been easy and his grunts attested to that but when he cradled her against his chest and carried her across the bedroom, she felt like she might have been as small as Letty. 
似乎觉得他的计划不会奏效，他把她抱进了怀里。这并不容易，他的咕噜声证明了这一点，但当他把她抱在胸前，带着她穿过卧室时，她觉得自己可能和莱蒂一样小。

The candles in his bathroom were still lit and Hermione winced, burrowing her face further into him as even their dull light managed to burn her sensitive, bloodshot eyes. The tears had dried up, her breathing was evening out, though the occasional inhale was too short and made her gasp. 
他浴室里的蜡烛还亮着，赫敏皱起眉头，把脸更深地钻进他身上，就连昏暗的光线也灼伤了她敏感、充血的眼睛。眼泪已经干涸，她的呼吸变得平稳，尽管偶尔的吸气太短，让她喘不过气来。

Lucius set her down in the empty roll top bath. The porcelain enamel against the back of her neck was beautifully cold and she closed her swollen eyes, not even curious enough to look around when she heard him running the tap at the sink. 
卢修斯把她放在空的卷顶浴缸里。她脖子后面的瓷珐琅很冷，她闭上了肿胀的眼睛，当她听到他打开水槽的水龙头时，她甚至没有好奇地四处张望。

It was only when he placed something cold and damp against her blotchy, scarlet cheeks that she allowed one eye to flutter open. He was sitting on the edge of the bath wearing his pyjama bottoms, pressing a flannel to her face with one hand and brushing her sweat-coated fringe out of the way with the other. 
只有当他把冰冷潮湿的东西放在她斑点绯红的脸颊上时，她才让一只眼睛颤抖着睁开。他穿着睡裤坐在浴缸的边缘，一只手把法兰绒按在她的脸上，另一只手拂去她沾满汗水的刘海。

After all that emotion she felt so incredibly…numb. Almost empty. But somehow also heavy. So she simply let him and watched him. 
在所有这些情绪之后，她感到如此难以置信......麻木。几乎空无一人。但不知何故也很沉重。所以她干脆让他看着他。

His always-pale face was even more pale. Almost grey. But his expression was tight as he continued to work the flannel over her cheeks before bringing it down to her neck. It was soothing. Calming. She allowed her eyes to fall closed again. Soon, a sense of solidity returned to her. Corporeality. 
他那总是苍白的脸色更加苍白了。几乎是灰色的。但他的表情很紧绷，他继续用法兰绒在她的脸颊上涂抹，然后把它拉到她的脖子上。这让人感到舒缓。平静。她让自己的眼睛再次闭上。很快，她又恢复了一种坚实的感觉。肉体。

“I’m sorry,” she found herself saying, though her voice sounded oddly thick and nasal to her own ears. When her eyes fluttered open, she found him shaking his head to dismiss her apology, drawing the flannel away from her. 
“对不起，”她发现自己在说，尽管她的声音在她自己的耳朵里听起来奇怪地粗重和鼻音。当她睁开眼睛时，她发现他摇着头不理会她的道歉，把法兰绒从她身上拉开。

“It was a nightmare,” he said, but there was a very faint uplift to it, like he was afraid to commit to the question.
“那是一场噩梦，”他说，但有一种非常微弱的振奋，就像他害怕回答这个问题一样。

“Bellatrix,” she explained. Just the name was enough for him to understand.
“贝拉特里克斯，”她解释道。光是名字就足以让他理解。

There was a flash of white bone at his knuckles as he tightened his grip around the flannel. “You were screaming my name,” he said. 
当他紧紧抓住法兰绒时，他的指关节处闪过一丝白骨。“你在喊我的名字，”他说。

“You were there,” Hermione said, frowning as the nightmare came back to her in that choppy, hazy way nightmares so often do. Her gaze travelled to his and she found he was already staring at her face. “You didn’t do anything. You didn’t –”
“你在那儿，”赫敏皱着眉头，噩梦以噩梦经常出现的那种波涛汹涌、朦胧的方式回到她身边。她的目光移向他，她发现他已经盯着她的脸了。“你什么都没做。你没有——”

She hadn’t meant there to be any accusation in what she said but she suspected Lucius heard one because his eye twitched in a way that suggested he had just about managed to suppress a flinch. 
她并不是要说什么有什么指责，但她怀疑卢修斯听到了，因为他的眼睛抽搐了一下，这表明他几乎设法压制住了一丝畏缩。

It had been so long since Bellatrix had visited her dreams. So long since Hermione’s brain had forced her back into that drawing room. Months and months.
贝拉特里克斯已经很久没有造访过她的梦了。赫敏的大脑把她逼回那个客厅已经很久了。月复一月。

It was odd but she had started to wonder if all the time she’d been spending in the manor and the peace she’d been making with Lucius, had, alongside the passage of time, helped to ease them. The drawing room had almost become an unreal place, utterly disconnected from the Malfoy Manor she had come to like and, therefore, much easier to forget. 
这很奇怪，但她开始怀疑，她在庄园里度过的所有时间，以及她与卢修斯的和平，是否随着时间的推移，帮助他们缓解了平静。客厅几乎变成了一个虚幻的地方，与她喜欢的马尔福庄园完全脱节，因此，更容易忘记。

Entering the drawing room earlier that evening had certainly been jarring but she thought she had coped well as the night progressed. Perhaps simply being forced to reckon with it as a real place again had been enough for her subconscious.
那天晚上早些时候进入客厅肯定很不和谐，但她认为随着夜晚的进行，她已经应付得很好。也许只是被迫再次将其视为一个真实的地方，对她的潜意识来说就足够了。

“We shouldn’t have – I shouldn’t have even allowed you to stay in the drawing room,” Lucius said, like he had been reading her mind. After all, in all the time they had been sleeping together, sharing a bed, she hadn’t once had one of the nightmares. 
“我们不应该——我什至不该让你呆在客厅里，”卢修斯说，就像他一直在读她的心思一样。毕竟，在他们一起睡在一起、同床共枕的这段时间里，她从来没有做过一次噩梦。

“You don’t ‘allow’ me to do things,” she said, bringing a hand up to grip the edge of the bath, near to his leg. “It was my decision.”
“你不'允许'我做事，”她说，抬起一只手抓住浴缸的边缘，靠近他的腿。“这是我的决定。”

“But I could have stopped you,” he said, his voice hard and filled with self-reproach. 
“但我本来可以阻止你，”他说，他的声音严厉而充满自责。

It was well seeing that Lucius was perturbed by her nightmare – over the months they had been regularly sharing his bed, it was actually he who had proven to be the poor sleeper. Occasionally there would be a handful of consecutive nights when he simply didn’t sleep.
看得出来卢修斯被她的噩梦所困扰，这真是太好了——在他们经常与他同床共枕的几个月里，实际上事实证明，他才是那个睡得不好的人。偶尔会有好几个晚上他就是没睡。

As he didn't take Dreamless Sleep and Hermione had no intention of forcing him, he generally just waited until the tiredness caught up with him.
因为他没有接受无梦睡眠，赫敏也无意强迫他，他通常只是等到疲惫赶上他。

“I don’t want to go back to bed,” Hermione said, her voice small. Nothing about going back and lying in the dark appealed to her in that moment, even if it would be in Lucius’ arms. 
“我不想回去睡觉，”赫敏说，她的声音很小。在那一刻，她对回去躺在黑暗中没有任何吸引力，即使它会在卢修斯的怀里。

“No,” Lucius agreed, rising to his feet. “No. Let’s…would you be able to get dressed?”
“不，”卢修斯同意道，站了起来。“不。让我们...你能穿衣服吗？

Curiosity tingling at the edges of her numbness, Hermione looked up at him questioningly. “I think…yes. Why?”
好奇心在她麻木的边缘刺痛，赫敏疑惑地抬头看着他。“我认为......是的。为什么？

He shook his head and held his hands out to her to help her out of the bath. “Dress warm.”
他摇摇头，向她伸出双手，帮助她从浴缸里出来。“穿得暖和。”

Still sniffling, Hermione rummaged through the kitchen cupboards of Malfoy Manor, looking for some kind of jar. One of Lucius’ woollen outer cloaks was making the job more difficult than it had to be thanks to its weight but he’d insisted that her jeans and jumper would not be warm enough and had wrapped it around her shoulders. 
赫敏仍然抽着鼻子，在马尔福庄园的厨房橱柜里翻找，寻找某种罐子。由于它的重量，卢修斯的一件羊毛外衣使这项工作变得比它必须的要困难，但他坚持认为她的牛仔裤和套头衫不够暖和，并把它缠在她的肩膀上。

They were, he’d revealed once he’d led her into the kitchen, going into the grounds. When Hermione had disbelievingly pointed out that it was around four in the morning and still dark, he had simply said “yes”, instructing her to wait before disappearing outside. 
他们是，他在带她进厨房，走进院子后透露。当赫敏难以置信地指出现在是凌晨四点左右，天还很黑时，他只是简单地说了一句“好”，指示她等一等，然后消失在外面。

Dreading facing the freezing winter morning, Hermione had decided that some bluebell flames were in order. 
面对寒冷的冬日早晨，赫敏感到恐惧，她决定来点风信子的火焰。

Hauling two jars that she suspected were supposed to hold homemade jams out of the back of a cupboard with a victorious grunt, she withdrew her wand from her jeans and deposited some of the flames inside. She was just screwing the lids onto the jars when Lucius leaned into the kitchen and gestured for her to join him outside with a jerk of his head. 
她从橱柜后面拖出两个罐子，怀疑这些罐子应该是用来装自制果酱的，她咕哝了一声，从牛仔裤里抽出魔杖，把一些火焰放进去。她刚把盖子拧到罐子上，卢修斯就靠进厨房，猛地摇了摇头，示意她和他一起出去。

It was a mercifully dry, clear morning but the cold December air made Hermione inhale sharply through clenched teeth as she slipped out into the darkness. When the door creaked closed behind her, the comforting glow of the kitchen disappeared and they were left with only the eerie blue light of her jarred flames.
这是一个干燥、晴朗的早晨，但十二月的寒冷空气让赫敏在滑入黑暗时，咬紧牙关猛地吸了一口气。当门在她身后吱吱作响地关上时，厨房里令人欣慰的光芒消失了，只剩下她被激怒的火焰发出的诡异的蓝光。

“Oh!” Hermione yelped, flinching as something began snuffling around her at hip height. Holding a jar aloft, she was relieved when it illuminated Cato. He was so much larger than that first afternoon she’d seen him, closer to a full-grown dog than the excitable puppy he’d been. He barked once, seemingly in greeting, before a hush from Lucius stopped any more.  With the exception of the sound of Cato’s panting breath and the rustle of the wind in the trees, they were left in silence. 
“哦！”赫敏大喊着，当有什么东西开始在她的臀部高度嗖嗖作响时，她畏缩了一下。她高举着一个罐子，当罐子照亮卡托时，她松了一口气。他比她看到的第一个下午大得多，比起他以前那只兴奋的小狗，他更像一只成年狗。他吠叫了一声，似乎是在打招呼，然后卢修斯的安静又停止了。除了卡托喘息的声音和风吹在树上的沙沙声，他们一片寂静。

Hermione handed Lucius a jar and he took it with a murmur of thanks, a shiver passing through him as the hot glass made contact with his cold hands. Without a word, they walked side-by-side away from the manor and into the grounds, Cato plodding alongside them.
赫敏递给卢修斯一个罐子，他接过来，低声感谢，当热玻璃碰到他冰冷的手时，他全身发抖。他们一言不发地并肩走出庄园，走进了院子里，卡托在他们身边蹒跚而行。

Lifting the jar up to his face, Lucius inspected the writhing blue flames with interest, the vapour of his breath cast into relief by their glow. He gave the jar a firm shake, raising his eyebrows when the flames didn’t even flicker. “This is a good charm.”
卢修斯将罐子举到脸上，饶有兴致地检查着扭动的蓝色火焰，他的呼吸蒸汽被它们的光芒所笼罩。他用力摇晃罐子，在火焰甚至没有闪烁时扬起眉毛。“这真是个好护身符。”

“I know,” Hermione said smugly, bringing her free hand down to absently pet Cato’s head as he brushed by her. “I like to think it’s my speciality.”
“我知道，”赫敏得意地说，在卡托擦过她时，她空出来的手伸到心不在焉地抚摸着她的头。“我喜欢认为这是我的专长。”

The morning frost crunched beneath their feet as they crossed the grass and Hermione closed her eyes briefly, raising her chin to inhale deeply. The cold, clear air was almost enough to clear her stuffy nose and it cooled her cheeks more effectively than the damp flannel had. 
当他们穿过草地时，清晨的霜冻在他们脚下嘎吱作响，赫敏短暂地闭上了眼睛，抬起下巴深吸一口气。冰冷、清澈的空气几乎足以清除她闷热的鼻子，而且比潮湿的法兰绒更有效地冷却了她的脸颊。

Turning her head to Lucius, she found he was already looking at her. A gust of wind swept over them, blowing her hair off her shoulders and making her teeth chatter. “Why are we out here?” she asked, hugging her jar protectively to her middle.
她转头看向卢修斯，发现他已经在看着她了。一阵风吹过他们，吹走了她肩膀上的头发，让她的牙齿打颤。“我们为什么在这里？” 她问道，一边保护性地将她的罐子抱在中间。

“I thought it might be better than remaining in the manor,” Lucius said, lifting his shoulders. “In the first year of my house arrest, I must have spent every night walking out here. The open space is good for the mind, I think.”
“我想这可能比留在庄园里要好，”卢修斯说，抬起了他的肩膀。“在我被软禁的第一年，我肯定每天晚上都在这里散步。我认为，开放空间对心灵有好处。

“It is nice,” Hermione admitted, nodding. Drawing in a deep breath, she watched it billow out in front of her as she released it. “Freezing but nice.”
“很好，”赫敏承认道，点点头。她深吸一口气，看着它在她面前翻滚而出，同时她松开了它。“很冷，但很好。”

Cato slipped between them, sylph-like until his wagging tail beat their legs. Hermione laughed and stroked his back as he passed, drawing a faint smile from Lucius. “And Cato is an excellent distraction,” he added.
卡托滑到他们之间，像仙女一样滑行，直到他摇晃的尾巴敲打着他们的腿。赫敏笑着走过时抚摸着他的背，引来了卢修斯淡淡的微笑。“而 Cato 是一个很好的分散注意力的人，”他补充道。

They walked in silence for a time, seemingly aimlessly, with the bluebell flames proving to be just enough to light a path. Hermione found herself wondering what they must look like from the manor – two wills-o'-the-wisp in search of travellers, perhaps. 
他们沉默地走了一会儿，似乎漫无目的地，事实证明，风信子的火焰刚好足以照亮一条路。赫敏发现自己在想，他们从庄园里看出去一定是什么样子——也许是两个寻找旅行者的精灵。

Slowing, she turned to look at the manor over her shoulder. It loomed up in the darkness, a couple of its illuminated windows the only indication that there was life within. Stopping entirely, Hermione turned and simply stared at the building, catching her lower lip between her teeth. A moment later, she felt Lucius at her shoulder, gazing with her.
她放慢了脚步，转身看向肩膀上的庄园。它在黑暗中若隐若现，几扇灯火通明的窗户是唯一表明里面有生命的迹象。赫敏完全停了下来，转过身来，只是盯着那栋建筑，用牙齿夹住了她的下唇。过了一会儿，她感觉到卢修斯在她的肩膀上，与她一起凝视着。

“We could block off the drawing room, you know. It’d be easy to do. You’d never have to look at it again.”
“我们可以把客厅堵住，你知道的。这很容易做到。你再也不用看它了。

Sighing, Hermione shook her head. “I really wouldn’t want you to do that,” she said. “It’s –”
赫敏叹了口气，摇了摇头。“我真的不希望你那样做，”她说。“这是——”

“It’s a single room in a very large house,” he cut in, glancing down at the top of her head with a frown. “I can live without it. I should have done it already.”
“这是一座非常大的房子里的一个单人间，”他打断道，皱着眉头低头瞥了一眼她的头顶。“没有它我也能活下去。我应该早就这么做了。

Looking up over her shoulder, Hermione smiled softly at him. “No. No, I think I was doing well when the room was in my periphery. I sort of…got used to it. And the rest of the manor is so familiar to me now, maybe I can start looking at it directly.” 
赫敏抬起头来，对他温柔地笑了笑。“不。不，我认为当房间在我周围时，我做得很好。我有点......已经习惯了。而且庄园的其余部分现在对我来说太熟悉了，也许我可以开始直接看看它。

She turned back, her eyes trailing to the centre of the lower floor where she knew the drawing room was located. “Slowly, of course, but…I think I can do it.”
她转过身来，目光落在下层的中央，她知道那里是客厅。“当然，慢慢来，但是......我想我能做到。

“You’re not at fault if you can’t,” he said, his voice low. “Protecting yourself wouldn’t make you any less of a Gryffindor.”
“如果你不能，那你也没有错，”他低声说。“保护自己不会让你变得不那么像个格兰芬多。”

Tucking the jar into the crook of her arm, Hermione tore her gaze away from Malfoy Manor and reached out to take Lucius’ hand. “Let’s keep going,” she said, tugging him gently. 
赫敏把罐子塞进她的臂弯里，把目光从马尔福庄园上移开，伸手握住卢修斯的手。“我们继续吧，”她说，轻轻地拉着他。

They were rounding a tall clump of hedges when Hermione gasped. Ahead of them, a large spindly tree glowed all the colours of the rainbow. All its leaves had fallen, gathering in damp piles around the base of its trunk, but various bulbs of light flit between its thick, dark branches, lending it an ethereal beauty. The lights twittered as they moved, like they were conversing with one another.
他们正在绕过一丛高高的树篱，这时赫敏倒抽了一口气。在他们面前，一棵细长的大树闪耀着彩虹的所有颜色。它所有的叶子都落下了，在树干的根部聚集成一个个潮湿的堆积，但各种光亮的灯泡在它又粗又黑的树枝之间飞舞，赋予它一种空灵的美感。灯光随着他们的移动而叽叽喳喳地响着，就像他们在互相交谈一样。

"Oh," Hermione breathed, her eyes alight as she broke away from Lucius to approach the tree with slow steps. "It's fairies." 
“哦，”赫敏喘着气，眼睛闪闪发光，她挣脱了卢修斯，迈着缓慢的步伐接近那棵树。“是仙女。”

She wrapped her arms around her jar of flames, allowing her cloak to cover their light so that she could create a perfect darkness in which to appreciate the tree. When Lucius didn't stop at her side as he had before, she glanced back and saw his attention was primarily on Cato, ensuring that the excitable dog wouldn't alarm the fairies.
她用双臂搂住她的火焰罐，让她的斗篷遮住它们的光芒，这样她就可以创造一个完美的黑暗，在其中欣赏这棵树。当卢修斯没有像以前那样停在她身边时，她回头看了一眼，发现他的注意力主要集中在卡托身上，确保这只兴奋的狗不会惊动仙女。

"This might be the safest distance," Lucius said, a calming hand on Cato's head. 
“这可能是最安全的距离，”卢修斯说，一只手放在卡托的头上。

Nodding, Hermione dropped back to stand with him and Cato, taking in the spectacle of the tree with wide eyes. She'd only seen a tree so populated with faeries once before. In these very grounds, in fact.
赫敏点点头，退后一步，与他和卡托站在一起，睁大眼睛欣赏着树的奇观。她以前只见过一棵树上长满了仙灵。事实上，正是在这些理由中。

"Wait." Hermione leaned around Lucius to count along the windows of the manor. "Is this the tree from the summer?" she asked, her voice rising with surprise."I thought Care and Control were going to come and sort it? I sent a letter to Graves."
“等等。”赫敏靠在卢修斯身边，沿着庄园的窗户数着。“这是夏天的树吗？” 她问道，她的声音因惊讶而提高。我以为 Care and Control 会来解决这个问题？我给格雷夫斯写了一封信。

A small hum from Lucius was the only response she received. 
Lucius 轻轻地哼了一声，这是她收到的唯一回应。

"They didn't come?" she asked, her brow lowering and her eyes narrowing.
“他们没来吗？” 她问道，眉头低垂，眼睛眯起。

"No, they didn’t."
“不，他们没有。”

"That's unaccountable of them," Hermione said, outraged. "They have a responsibility to these creatures! Did they at least say why ?"
“那是对他们的不负责任，”赫敏愤怒地说。“他们对这些生物负有责任！他们至少说了为什么吗？

"No," Lucius said lightly. "But I think we can both make an educated guess, hm?"
“不，”卢修斯淡淡地说。“但我想我们俩都可以做出有根据的猜测，嗯？”

Huffing out a frustrated sigh, Hermione looked back to the tree, her lips pursing. "Why didn’t you tell me?" she eventually asked, the words practically bursting out of her. "I'd have chased them up."
赫敏沮丧地叹了口气，回头看向树，抿着嘴唇。“你为什么不告诉我？” 她最终问道，这些话几乎是从她身上迸发出来的。“我会追上去的。”

"I truly can't imagine anything worse than having you make appeals for me to that department," he said dryly. "No offence."
“我真的想不出还有什么比让你替我向那个部门上诉更糟糕的了，”他干巴巴地说。“没有冒犯。”

Tutting, Hermione gave him a sidelong look. "You seem…" She lifted a shoulder, the right side of her face scrunching in a cringe. " Alright about it, to be fair."
啧啧，赫敏侧头看了他一眼。“你看起来......”她抬起一个肩膀，右脸皱成一团。“好吧，公平地说。”

Lucius tipped his head left then right consideringly. "Well, I broke one of the good crystal glasses and cracked another. But then I decided…I quite like them."
卢修斯若有所思地向左倾斜，然后向右倾斜。“嗯，我打碎了一只上好的水晶眼镜，又打碎了另一只。但后来我决定......我很喜欢他们。

"They’re festive," Hermione offered.
“他们很喜庆，”赫敏提议。

"I thought so, too."
“我也是这么认为的。”

"What about the Bowtruckles? What will you do about them?"
“那 Bowtruckles 呢？你会怎么处理他们？

"I don’t have to worry about them until spring." Lucius adjusted his jar in his arm so that he could lean down to properly scratch Cato behind his ears. "I rather thought: why not enjoy the fae for what they are while I can, rather than fret about the problem they'll become."
“在春天之前，我不必担心他们。”卢修斯调整了一下他手臂上的罐子，这样他就可以俯下身来适当地抓挠卡托的耳后。“我宁愿想：为什么不在我能的时候享受一下精灵的本来面目，而不是担心它们会变成什么问题。”

When he received no response but silence, Lucius peered at Hermione and found her expression warm. Or at least, as warm as it could appear in the cool blue glow of the flames.
当他没有得到回应，只有沉默时，卢修斯凝视着赫敏，发现她的表情很温暖。或者至少，在火焰的凉爽蓝色光芒中显得尽可能温暖。

"That's quite measured," she said, a smile playing around her lips. "I think I'm impressed."
“这很有分寸，”她说，嘴角露出笑容。“我觉得我印象深刻。”

"After nearly a decade under house arrest, I was due a breakthrough," was his tired reply.
“在被软禁了近十年之后，我应该取得突破，”他疲惫地回答。

Laughing through her nose, Hermione reached out and slid her hand into his. Interlinking their fingers, she sighed and turned her gaze to the tree. The multi-coloured glow of the faeries created a kaleidoscopic effect on her face.
赫敏从鼻子里笑了起来，伸出手把她的手滑进了他的手里。他们十指相接，她叹了口气，将目光转向那棵树。仙灵的五彩光芒在她的脸上营造出万花筒般的效果。

"Thank you," she said after a few minutes. "For this. It’s helping, I think."
“谢谢你，”几分钟后她说。“为了这个。我认为这很有帮助。

"None of it would be necessary if not for me," he replied quietly. "In part, anyway."
“如果不是我，这一切都没有必要，”他平静地回答。“至少在一定程度上。”

"Mmm." Hermione nibbled her lip, nodding slowly. "Still." She squeezed his hand tightly. "Thank you. For this moment, at least."
“嗯。”赫敏咬了咬嘴唇，缓缓地点了点头。“还是。”她紧紧地捏住他的手。“谢谢你。至少在这一刻。

Chapter 40
章 40Chapter Notes
章节注释

Thanks for the continued support <3 Love each and every one of you. Coming into the cold months means I've had a lot more time for my writing so I've been finding it so much easier to edit and update at a faster pace. Got to seize on the opportunities while they're there.
感谢一直以来的支持 <3 爱你们每一个人。进入寒冷的月份意味着我有更多的时间进行写作，所以我发现以更快的速度编辑和更新要容易得多。必须抓住机会。

January 12th 2007
一月 12th 2007

 

Hermione crossed a thick line through her most recent sentence and huffed a sigh through her nose. Re-reading her work as a whole, her eyes darting to-and-fro across the page, she absent-mindedly ran the feather of her quill between her lips. A natural continuation finally occurring to her, she hurriedly re-inked her quill and began scribbling again.
赫敏在她最近的一句话中越过了一条粗线，从鼻子里叹了口气。她把自己的作品作为一个整体重新阅读，她的眼睛在书页上来回扫视，她心不在焉地把羽毛笔的羽毛滑过嘴唇。她终于自然而然地想到了，她匆忙地重新给羽毛笔上墨，又开始涂鸦。

“I do believe that’s my desk.”
“我确实相信那是我的桌子。”

Stiffening, Hermione glanced up from her parchment to see Lucius standing in the door to his study, his hand resting on the door handle. Catching her eye, he raised his eyebrows to indicate his expectation of an explanation.
赫敏僵硬地从羊皮纸上抬起头来，看到卢修斯站在书房的门口，他的手放在门把手上。吸引她的目光，他扬起眉毛，表示他期待得到解释。

“You weren’t using it,” Hermione replied, bowing her head to continue writing. It wasn’t only that; his study was much more pleasant to work in than the library early in the morning, especially in winter. When she had walked in to see the faintly pink fingertips of dawn on the horizon through the windows, it had been an easy decision to settle in and enjoy the sunrise.
“你没用它，”赫敏回答，低头继续写作。不仅如此;他的书房比清晨在图书馆工作要愉快得多，尤其是在冬天。当她走进去，透过窗户看到地平线上淡淡的粉红色黎明指尖时，安顿下来欣赏日出是一个很容易的决定。

“I hardly had a chance – you didn’t wake me up.” Lucius stepped into the room and closed the study door with a click . “Aren’t we supposed to be working on this together?” he asked as he strolled towards her, slipping his hands into his pockets.
“我几乎没有机会——你没叫醒我。”卢修斯走进房间，咔嚓一声关上了书房的门。“我们不是应该一起做这件事吗？”他一边问道，一边向她走来，双手口袋里。

“I didn’t dare wake you – it was before ten.” Hermione briefly glanced up at him from beneath her brow as she re-inked her quill. “Besides, are you forgetting that you barely slept the past two nights? I couldn’t have woken you even if I’d wanted to, Lucius, you were dead to the world.”
“我不敢叫醒你——已经不到十点了。”赫敏从眉毛下短暂地抬头看了他一眼，重新给她的羽毛笔上墨。“再说了，你忘了这两天晚上你几乎没睡吗？就算我想叫醒你，卢修斯，你对这个世界已经死了。

Lucius came around to her side of the desk and half sat on its edge, crossing one ankle over the other as he looked down at her. With a sidelong glare at his hips, Hermione paused in her writing to shift a sheet of parchment away from where he had almost sat on it. “How long have you been here?” he asked.
卢修斯走到她这边，半坐在桌沿上，低头看着她，一只脚踝交叉在另一只脚踝上。赫敏侧头瞪了一眼他的臀部，停下了她的写作，将一张羊皮纸从他几乎坐在上面的地方移开。“你在这里多久了？”

“A few hours.”
“几个小时。”

He nodded slowly, crossing his arms and glancing up to look out of the window at the clear winter morning. “And it wasn’t because of any –?”
他缓缓地点点头，交叉双臂，抬头瞥了一眼窗外晴朗的冬日清晨。“那不是因为什么——？”

“No,” Hermione said, finishing a sentence with a flourish and a faint sigh. “I slept well. Just…things to do.”
“不，”赫敏说，以华丽和淡淡的叹息结束了一句话。“我睡得很好。只。。。要做的事情。

He made a satisfied noise and Hermione set down her quill, picking up her parchment to hold it out to him. “Can you read this?” she asked, scratching her forehead and sending her fringe askew. “It's only a subsection but I want to make sure it’s absolutely clear; nothing up for interpretation.”
他满意地发出声音，赫敏放下她的羽毛笔，拿起她的羊皮纸递给他。“你能读懂这个吗？”她问道，挠了挠额头，歪歪扭扭地歪歪扭扭的刘海。“这只是一个小节，但我想确保它绝对清晰;没有什么可以解释的。

Plucking the parchment from her hand, Lucius rested his elbow on the forearm he still had crossed across his middle and scanned over the paragraphs she’d spent the last hour and a half carefully constructing. Hermione kept her eyes fixed on his face, searching for any shift in expression so that she could preemptively explain any issues he might think about raising. It was her continual instinct to do this, she was sure, which ensured he kept his face utterly unreadable. 
卢修斯从她手里掏出羊皮纸，将手肘放在他仍然交叉在他中间的前臂上，扫视着她花了最后一个半小时精心构建的段落。赫敏的眼睛一直盯着他的脸，寻找任何表情的变化，这样她就可以先发制人地解释他可能想提出的任何问题。她确信，这是她持续的本能，这确保了他的脸完全看不懂。

Quietly clearing his throat, Lucius pushed himself up from the desk and turned to face it. Depositing the parchment on its surface, he bent over and reached for the quill she’d been using. As he lifted it, he spied that the end feathers were clumped together and disgust flashed across his face. 
卢修斯悄悄地清了清嗓子，从桌子上站起来，转过身来面对它。他把羊皮纸放在表面，弯下腰，伸手去拿她一直在用的羽毛笔。当他举起它时，他发现末端的羽毛聚集在一起，他的脸上闪过厌恶。

“Have you been chewing the quills again?”
“你又在咀嚼羽毛笔了吗？”

“I told you I don’t chew them,” Hermione huffed. “I just sort of…put them near my lips when I’m concentrating.”
“我说过我不嚼它们，”赫敏气愤地说。“我只是有点......当我集中注意力时，把它们放在我的嘴唇附近。

Lucius did nothing but hum critically as he reached up to ink the quill. He took a moment to re-read the parchment and then crossed out a couple of words in the fifth paragraph, ignoring the way Hermione leaned around his arm with an air of desiring to protest. Hesitating, he added another couple of words and set the quill down before sliding the parchment back to her.
卢修斯什么也没做，只是挑剔地哼了一声，伸手给羽毛笔上墨。他花了一点时间重新阅读了羊皮纸，然后在第五段中划掉了几个字，无视了赫敏搂着他的手臂，带着想要抗议的神情。犹豫了一下，他又说了几个字，放下羽毛笔，然后把羊皮纸滑回给她。

Pointing at the words he’d crossed out and replaced, Hermione asked, “What was wrong with this?”
赫敏指着他划掉并替换的单词问道，“这有什么问题？

Lucius tipped his head, his mouth twisting thoughtfully. “Ah… too specific.” He straightened up and looked down at her faint frown. “I know you said nothing up for interpretation but a little ambiguity will make it more palatable. Besides, it won’t necessarily work against you.”
卢修斯歪着头，嘴巴若有所思地扭动着。“啊......太具体了。他直起身来，低头看着她淡淡的皱眉。“我知道你没说什么可以解释的，但一点点含糊会让它更容易接受。此外，它不一定对你不利。

As Hermione re-read the draft with what he’d said in mind, Lucius scanned the rest of the desk and saw another four scrolls in the corner. “My, my someone has been busy.”
当赫敏带着他所说的内容重新阅读草稿时，卢修斯扫视了桌子的其余部分，看到角落里又有四个卷轴。“天哪，我的人一直很忙。”

Hermione sighed and leaned back in his chair, looking towards the scrolls. “I’m meeting Kingsley tomorrow and I just wanted to have a few more to take into him. He’s starting the process of putting them to the Wizengamot – finally – and I don’t want to give him any excuse to slow down.” Glancing up at him, she said, “A few more checks like that wouldn’t go amiss on those.”
赫敏叹了口气，靠在椅子上，看向那些卷轴。“我明天要见金斯利，我只是想多了解他一些。他终于开始把他们送到威森加摩了——我不想给他任何放慢脚步的借口。她抬头看了他一眼，说：“再多检查几张这样的支票就不会出错了。

“Very well.” Without another word, Lucius moved around to the other side of the desk and lowered himself into the chair that she usually occupied, reaching forward to grab the closest scroll. 
“很好。”卢修斯一言不发，转身走到桌子的另一边，把自己放到她平时坐的椅子上，伸手去拿最近的卷轴。

As he sat back in the chair with it and crossed his legs, he paused. Lowering the scroll, he shifted in the seat and frowned at her from across the desk. “I forgot I made this an inch or two shorter,” he grumbled, moving the chair by its arms.
当他拿着它坐回椅子上并交叉双腿时，他停了下来。放下卷轴，他在座位上挪动了一下，从桌子对面皱起眉头看着她。“我忘了我把它短了一两英寸，”他抱怨道，一边拉着椅子的扶手。

“I bloody knew it! Hermione cried, slapping a hand down on the desk. “The whole time we were doing interviews, I couldn’t figure out how you could be constantly looking down your nose at me.”
“我知道！赫敏喊道，一只手拍在桌子上。“在我们做采访的整个过程中，我都想不通你怎么会一直低头看我。”

“Perhaps we should swap,” Lucius said, continuing to shift.
“也许我们应该交换一下，”卢修斯说，继续变换。

“No,” was Hermione’s prim response. She picked up her quill and raised her chin to look down at him even more. “You can have a taste of your own medicine.”
“不，”赫敏严肃地回答。她拿起羽毛笔，抬起下巴，更加低头看着他。“你可以尝尝你自己的药。”

Lucius blinked at the unfamiliar Muggle phrase. “It hardly feels medicinal.”
卢修斯对这个陌生的麻瓜短语眨了眨眼。“它几乎没有药用感。”

“Well, it is for me.”
“嗯，这是给我的。”

Grumbling, Lucius dropped back in the seat and unrolled the parchment, blocking Hermione out of his view with it so that he could forget how much closer to the ground he was. They worked in silence for a time, Hermione scratching out drafts while Lucius read them over and made changes, leaving them in a separate pile for her to read over once again.
卢修斯抱怨着，坐回座位上，展开羊皮纸，用羊皮纸挡住了赫敏的视线，这样他就可以忘记自己离地面有多近了。他们沉默地工作了一会儿，赫敏刮掉草稿，卢修斯一遍又一遍地读着，然后修改，把它们单独堆起来，让她再读一遍。

Lucius approached the point of needing tea and had lowered his latest scroll of parchment to tell Hermione that, when he found her staring at a blank piece of parchment with her head in her hands. Glancing down at the relatively brief draft he’d been reading, he wondered how long it had been since he’d last looked at her and how she’d managed to spiral so quickly.
卢修斯快到需要喝茶的地步了，他放下了他最新的羊皮纸卷轴，告诉赫敏，当他发现她双手抱着头盯着一张空白的羊皮纸时。他低头看了一眼他一直在阅读的相对简短的草稿，想知道距离他上次看她已经有多久了，以及她是如何如此迅速地螺旋式上升的。

“I take it you also need tea?” he asked with an air of proceeding with care.
“我想你也需要喝茶吗？”

“I still want to go further with the Wizengamot,” she muttered, frowning down at her parchment.
“我还是想和威森加摩走得更远，”她咕哝着，皱着眉头看着她的羊皮纸。

Rolling his eyes, Lucius leaned over to set aside his scroll and pick up another. Their discussion about the Wizengamot, its structure and its members was ongoing, drawn-out and not, she knew, something he especially enjoyed. 
卢修斯翻了个白眼，俯身把他的卷轴放在一边，拿起另一个。他们关于威森加摩、它的结构和成员的讨论是持续的、漫长的，而且她知道，这并不是他特别喜欢的事情。

“By all means, Hermione,” he said on a sigh, “draft a proposal. But remember when you do it that it will be out of the bounds of what Shacklebolt has asked you to do.” He unfurled the scroll and straightened the parchment with a snap. “So, don’t expect anything to come from it.”
“当然，赫敏，”他叹了口气说，“起草一份提案。但请记住，当你这样做时，它就会超出沙克尔要求你做的事情。他展开卷轴，啪地一声拉直了羊皮纸。“所以，不要指望它会有什么结果。”

“It should proportionally represent blood statuses,” Hermione said, lifting her head from her hands to fix him with a fierce look.
“它应该按比例代表血统状态，”赫敏说，从她的手中抬起头，用凶狠的眼神盯着他。

“You would be better served keeping your focus on the task at hand,” Lucius said, an almost sing-song quality to his voice as he started to read his parchment. 
“你最好还是把注意力放在手头的任务上，”卢修斯说，当他开始阅读他的羊皮纸时，他的声音里带着一种近乎歌唱的语气。

“But there’s so much more to do, Lucius!” She rose up, her curls wild around her face where she’d dug her fingers into them. “I mean, this is a start but I just…I don’t want to stop at explicit Pure-blood advantages. There are other things, outside of these laws, that are barriers to fairness. I want to fix them all and I want to build something new, something stronger and less...antiquated.”
“但还有很多事情要做，卢修斯！”她站起来，她的卷发在她手指挖进去的地方在脸上狂野。“我的意思是，这是一个开始，但我只是......我不想止步于明确的纯血统优势。在这些法律之外，还有其他事情是公平的障碍。我想把它们都修好，我想建造一些新的东西，一些更强大、更少的东西......过时了。

“Your ambition is admirable,” he said tiredly. “I’ll certainly never check it.” Raising his head from the parchment in his lap, he met her eyes, unblinking. “But you are building foundations with this work – foundations that will stand you in good stead for when you do eventually build something new – and you would do well not to lose sight of the importance of this simply because you are growing bored of it.”
“你的雄心壮志令人钦佩，”他疲惫地说。“我肯定永远不会检查它。”他从膝盖上的羊皮纸上抬起头来，一眨不眨地与她的眼睛对上。“但你正在通过这项工作建立基础——这些基础将对你最终建立新事物时处于有利地位——你最好不要仅仅因为你越来越厌倦它而忽视它的重要性。”

There was a beat in which Hermione opened her mouth, outraged, and then visibly reigned herself in. “I’m not bored of what we’re doing,” she said with forced calm.
赫敏张开了嘴，愤怒地张开了嘴，然后明显地控制住了自己。“我对我们正在做的事情并不感到厌烦，”她强行平静地说。

“Really?” Lucius chuckled and rubbed his forehead with the side of his forefinger. “I confess, I rather am. It’s a task seemingly without end .” Sighing, he set down the parchment, realising now was not the time to try to read it, and clasped his hands over his middle. “Hermione, you will do great things. Start with this and have some bloody patience; you’re not even 30 years old.”
“真的吗？”卢修斯咯咯地笑着，用食指的侧面揉了揉他的额头。“我承认，我宁愿是。这是一项似乎没有尽头的任务。他叹了口气，放下羊皮纸，意识到现在不是尝试阅读它的时候，于是双手紧握住了他的中间。“赫敏，你会做伟大的事情。从这个开始，要有一些血腥的耐心;你还不到 30 岁。

“I know that,” she snapped. Seeing his raised eyebrows, she sighed and her shoulders dropped. “I know . It’s just the more I dig into these old problems and straighten out little issues here and there, the more I see how many larger issues there are.”
“我知道，”她厉声说。看到他扬起的眉毛，她叹了口气，肩膀垂了下来。“我知道。只是我越深入研究这些老问题，在这里和那里理顺小问题，我就越能看到有多少更大的问题。

“You realise that Shacklebolt is preparing you,” Lucius said flatly.
“你知道沙克尔博尔特在为你做准备，”卢修斯平淡地说。

“For what?”
“为了什么？”

“To take his office.” Uncrossing his legs, Lucius straightened up to lean towards the desk and her. “Please tell me you’ve picked up on this.”
“为了夺取他的职位。”卢修斯松开双腿，直起身来，靠向桌子和她。“请告诉我你已经注意到了。”

Hermione dropped his gaze, shrugging diffidently. “All I know is that he wants me to be Deputy Head of Magical Law Enforcement. I’m supposed to go for the job next year.” 
赫敏垂下目光，勉强地耸了耸肩。“我只知道他想让我成为魔法执法的副局长。我应该明年去做这份工作。

“A fine role from which to launch a bid to be Minister for Magic,” Lucius pointed out. “DMLE is the classic springboard department for the role, you know this.”
“一个很好的角色，可以发起魔法部长的竞选，”卢修斯指出。“DMLE 是这个角色的经典跳板部门，你知道的。”

“Alright, he did say before we started this that I could sit in his chair one day,” Hermione mumbled, making Lucius bark out an incredulous laugh. “But I didn’t actually take him seriously , Lucius –
“好吧，在我们开始这件事之前，他确实说过，有一天我可以坐在他的椅子上，”赫敏喃喃自语，让卢修斯难以置信地笑了起来。“但我其实并没有把他当回事，卢修斯——

“Start taking him seriously,” Lucius said, enunciating each word clearly. “For Merlin’s sake, Hermione, think about who you are , look at what you’re doing . Look at the lengths to which Shacklebolt has gone to get you to do it.”
“开始认真对待他，”卢修斯说，把每个字都说清楚了。“看在梅林的份上，赫敏，想想你是谁，看看你在做什么。看看 Shacklebolt 为了让你做到而付出了多大的努力。

Hermione looked mildly alarmed, shaking her head. “Lucius, I don’t even know if I’d want to be Minister for Magic.” All she could see in her mind’s eye was Kingsley’s messy desk, his late nights, his stress and his need to think years in advance. All without much thanks. In fact, on top of all that he had people like her making things more complicated even if it was with good intentions. “It doesn’t seem especially…me.”
赫敏看起来略带惊慌，摇了摇头。“卢修斯，我什至不知道我是否想成为魔法部长。”她脑海中只能看到金斯利凌乱的书桌、他的熬夜、他的压力和他需要提前几年思考。所有这些都没有太多的感谢。事实上，最重要的是，他有像她这样的人让事情变得更加复杂，即使是出于好意。“这似乎不是特别......我。

“It doesn’t seem ‘especially you’,” he repeated dryly. “ You ? The witch who has, just two seconds ago, told me that she is not content merely reworking laws, she would like to remake the Wizarding World anew?”
“看起来不是'尤其是你'，”他干巴巴地重复道。“你 ？就在两秒钟前，那个女巫还告诉我，她不满足于仅仅修改法律，她想重新改造魔法世界吗？

“I didn’t mean the whole Wizarding World," she mumbled, suddenly bashful. "Just all the Wizengamot stuff and –”
“我不是说整个魔法世界，”她喃喃自语，突然害羞起来。“就是所有威森加摩的东西，还有——”

“Hermione. Listen to yourself.”
“赫敏。听你自己说。

Seemingly running out of steam, Hermione uttered a breathless laugh and fell back in her chair. Resting her elbow on its arm, she closed her eyes and brought a hand up to press her fingers into them; they were strained and dry after a long morning of work. 
赫敏似乎已经失去了动力，发出一声气喘吁吁的笑声，然后倒在了椅子上。她把胳膊肘靠在它的手臂上，闭上眼睛，抬起一只手把手指按进去。经过一个漫长的上午工作后，他们疲惫不堪。

“He’s hardly asking you to step into the role tomorrow,” Lucius said gently. “It’s a question of years down the line. All you have to do is think about it.”
“他几乎不会要求你明天就接替这个角色，”卢修斯温和地说。“这是一个多年后的问题。你所要做的就是考虑一下。

Her eyes fluttered open and she lowered her hand to give him a weak smile. “You really think I could do it?”
她睁开了眼睛，垂下手，向他微微一笑。“你真的觉得我能做到吗？”

“I don’t doubt it,” was his confident reply. “But what I think doesn’t especially matter, does it? You need to think you could do it.” Hermione’s eyes flicked upwards at the banality of the statement and he raised a brow. “It’ll take more than your current coy ‘who, me?’ attitude, Hermione. You’ll need to want it.”
“我不怀疑，”他自信地回答。“但我认为什么并不特别重要，不是吗？ 你需要认为你能做到。赫敏的眼睛向上眨了眨，看着这句话的平庸，他扬起了眉毛。“这需要的不仅仅是你现在腼腆的'谁，我？'的态度，赫敏。你得想要它。

“I just want to make a difference,” she insisted.
“我只是想有所作为，”她坚持说。

“Then you need power to do it and there’s no higher public office in our world.” Eyeing the slightly sceptical, reluctant curl of her lip, he added, “Power doesn’t need to be a filthy word, Hermione. You would wield it with an excruciating amount of care, I don’t doubt.”
“那么你需要权力来做这件事，而我们这个世界上没有更高的公职。”看着她略带怀疑、不情愿的弯曲嘴唇，他补充道，“权力不需要是一个肮脏的词，赫敏。你小心翼翼地挥舞着它，我不怀疑。

Pulling her lower lip between her teeth, she sucked at, assessing him. “Why didn’t you ever want to be Minister for Magic?” she eventually asked, leaning forward to place her elbows on his desk. “Surely you had the sway at one point. You had the money, at least. Let’s not pretend you didn’t – don’t – like power.”
她把下唇拉到牙齿之间，吸吮着，打量着他。“你为什么从来都不想当魔法部长？”她最终问道，身体前倾，将手肘放在他的桌子上。“你肯定一度有影响力。至少你有钱。我们不要假装你不喜欢——不要——喜欢权力。

“Minister for Magic is the most powerful public office,” he repeated with an opaque smile. “You only have as much power as the public will allow you. I prefer a little more privacy and a little less...accountability, shall we say.”
“魔法部长是最有权势的公职，”他带着不透明的笑容重复道。“你只有公众允许你的权力。我更喜欢多一点隐私，少一点......问责制，容我们说。

Hermione’s eyes narrowed infinitesimally, searching him. “Yet you seem very keen that I consider it.”
赫敏无限微小地眯起眼睛，寻找着他。“可是你似乎很热心地希望我考虑一下。”

“Of course I am,” he said, lifting one shoulder in an elegant shrug. “It’s the only way we’ll bring our interminable discussions about the Wizengamot to an end. You can do what you want with them when you’re Minister.” He hesitated, tipping his head left then right. “To a degree.”
“我当然是，”他说，优雅地耸了耸肩。“这是我们结束关于威森加摩的无休止的讨论的唯一方法。当你成为部长时，你可以对他们做你想做的事。他犹豫了一下，先左歪右。“在某种程度上。”

“I suppose you wouldn’t exactly mind having direct access to the ear of the Minister, either?” Hermione asked, raising an eyebrow in challenge.
“我想你也不介意直接进入部长的耳朵吧？”赫敏问道，挑起眉毛表示挑战。

A lascivious grin flitted over Lucius’ face. “I like to think I’ll have direct access to rather more suggestible parts of her.” On seeing Hermione scowl he schooled his expression into something altogether more serious. “Not that I would ever attempt to take advantage of that.” 
卢修斯的脸上闪过一个的笑容。“我喜欢认为我可以直接接触到她更值得暗示的部分。”看到赫敏皱起眉头，他把自己的表情调整得更严肃一些。“我绝不会试图利用这一点。”

“Sure you wouldn’t.”
“你肯定不会。”

Clearing his throat, Lucius dropped her gaze to adjust the sleeves of his shirt with an uncomfortable air. “You realise, of course,” he said slowly, “what your greatest obstacle will be?”
清了清嗓子，卢修斯垂下目光，以一种不舒服的气息调整了一下他的衬衫袖子。“你当然知道，”他慢慢地说，“你最大的障碍会是什么？

She sighed. “Let me guess: my being a Muggleborn?”
她叹了口气。“让我猜猜：我是麻瓜出身吗？”

His frown was deep, somewhat resentful, as he looked up and shook his head. “Me,” he said, raising a hand to lay it on his chest. 
他皱着眉头，有些不满，抬起头来，摇了摇头。“我，”他说，抬起一只手放在他的胸前。

Opening her mouth and then closing it, Hermione stared at him for a moment. “Good lord, that’s a bit dramatic, don’t you think?”
赫敏张开嘴，然后又闭上，盯着他看了一会儿。“天哪，这有点戏剧化，你不觉得吗？”

“Is it?” Lucius asked doubtfully. “Look at the trouble you had with the book. The Wizarding World might not like their Minister for Magic being…romantically partnered with a Death Eater.” He held up a finger as Hermione opened her mouth to correct him and acknowledged, “Former.”
“是吗？”卢修斯疑惑地问。“看看你这本书的麻烦。魔法世界可能不喜欢他们的魔法部长......与食死徒浪漫地合作。他举起一根手指，赫敏张开嘴纠正他，承认道，“前任。

“Things will be different by the time we’re through with this,” Hermione said, gesturing at the various scrolls they’d spent the morning working through. “Then you’ll be the former Death Eater who also helped to push through a bunch of laws that are to the benefit of everyone.” 
“等我们做完这件事的时候，情况会有所不同，”赫敏说，指着他们花了一上午时间研究的各种卷轴。“那么你就会成为那个前食死徒，他还帮助推动了一系列对每个人都有益的法律。”

“Yes, I’m sure I will be positively feted,” he said dryly but Hermione thought she could see some satisfaction in his expression. 
“是的，我敢肯定我会受到热烈的欢迎，”他干巴巴地说，但赫敏觉得她能从他的表情中看出一些满意。

“Oh, I wouldn’t go that far,” Hermione said, grinning. Letting out a long sigh, she surveyed their work so far and clapped her hands together. “Shall we have some tea? I think we’ve earned it.”
“哦，我不会走那么远，”赫敏咧嘴一笑说。她长叹了一口气，打量着他们到目前为止的工作，并拍了拍手。“我们喝点茶好吗？我认为我们已经赢得了它。

“Yes,” Lucius said, rising to his feet with a sharp exhale that sounded like relief. “I had been thinking that. Perhaps some –”
“是的，”卢修斯说，他站起来，猛地呼出一口气，听起来像是松了一口气。“我一直在想。也许是一些——”

A sharp tap at the window stopped Lucius mid-sentence, prompting he and Hermione to look towards it in unison. A large barn owl was peering in through the glass and Hermione had barely moved towards the window before it started tapping again, more insistently. 
一阵猛烈的敲击声让卢修斯停下了话音，促使他和赫敏齐声看向窗户。一只大谷仓猫头鹰正透过玻璃往里窥视，赫敏还没朝窗户走去，它就又开始敲打了起来，更加执着了。

“Best let it in before it cracks the thing,” muttered Lucius, turning away to call Letty to arrange for some tea. While he did so, Hermione opened the window and the owl hopped forward with a soft hoot to let her untie a letter from its leg. 
“最好在它破裂之前让它进来，”卢修斯咕哝着，转身叫莱蒂来安排一些茶。当他这样做的时候，赫敏打开了窗户，猫头鹰轻轻地叫了一声，向前跳去，让她解开了腿上的一封信。

Remaining at the window, letting the chilly winter breeze brush over her face, Hermione tore open the letter. Oblivious to the sounds of Letty arriving with tea and biscuits, she skimmed the letter. “Dear Miss Granger…most interesting correspondence thus far…after our meeting at Malfoy Manor, I confess I was uncertain –” 
赫敏留在窗前，任由寒冷的冬风拂过她的脸庞，撕开了信。她没有理会莱蒂带着茶和饼干来的声音，略读了一下那封信。 “亲爱的格兰杰小姐......到目前为止最有趣的通信......我们在马尔福庄园见面后，我承认我不确定——”

Hermione’s grip on the parchment tightened with every word and by the time she’d reached the bottom of the page, she was turning it over hungrily with excitement for the rest. “ We would like to offer you a contract…publication by the year’s end…much work to be done…please do give us your response…Elizabeth Munro, Quotes and Quills.” 
赫敏每说一个字，就紧紧地握住羊皮纸，当她读到书页底部时，她已经饥肠辘辘地翻着它，为剩下的内容兴奋不已。“我们想给你一份合同......年底前出版......还有很多工作要做...请给我们你的回应...伊丽莎白·芒罗，《名言与羽毛笔》。

Letting out a triumphant yelp, Hermione spun on the spot, the letter gripped tight to her chest. She found Lucius staring at her with surprise, frozen in the process of lifting the teapot and cups from the silver tray. His eyes darted down to the letter and then up to her face.
赫敏得意洋洋地叫了一声，当场转身，信紧紧地紧紧地攥在了她的胸口。她发现卢修斯惊讶地盯着她，在从银色托盘上拿起茶壶和杯子的过程中僵住了。他的眼睛瞥了瞧那封信，然后又盯着她的脸。

“It’s a letter,” Hermione said, a wide grin creeping across her face.
“这是一封信，”赫敏说，脸上露出灿烂的笑容。

“Yes, I can see that,” Lucius quipped, carefully setting a cup down to straighten up.  
“是的，我能看出来，”卢修斯打趣道，小心翼翼地放下杯子让自己直起身来。

“It’s from Elizabeth Munro at Quotes and Quills,” she continued, drawing the parchment away from her chest so that she could read it quickly again, barely able to take in the words in any kind of coherent order. “They want to publish me.” Looking up, she beamed at him. “ With your contribution.”
“这是 Quotes and Quills 的 Elizabeth Munro 写的，”她继续说，从胸前抽出羊皮纸，这样她就可以快速地再次阅读它，几乎无法以任何连贯的顺序吸收单词。“他们想公布我。”她抬起头，向他露出笑容。“凭借你的贡献。”

Lucius barked out a disbelieving laugh and strode around the desk to her. Wrapping an arm around her waist, he pressed a firm kiss to her lips and then took the letter from her hands to read it for himself. “She’s found you ‘consistently convincing’ has she?” he asked, peering down at her from around the edge of the page. “How many letters have you exchanged?”
卢修斯难以置信地大笑起来，大步绕过桌子来到她身边。他用一只手臂搂住她的腰，在她的嘴唇上狠狠地吻了一下，然后从她手中接过信来亲自阅读。“她发现你'一直很有说服力'，是吗？”他问道，从书页边缘低头凝视着她。“你交换了多少封信？”

“Oh, a few,” Hermione said, her cheeks warming under his knowing gaze. 
“哦，有几个，”赫敏说，她的脸颊在他了解的目光下温暖起来。

Initially, the conversation had been quite one-sided on Hermione’s part, Munro having struck her as one of the more palatable attendees at Lucius’ event for her. When Hermione and Lucius’ partnership at the Ministry had been announced in the Prophet , however, responses which spoke to Munro’s curiosity had started to arrive and Hermione had seized upon it. 
最初，赫敏的谈话是相当片面的，芒罗觉得她是卢修斯活动中对她来说更讨人喜欢的参与者之一。然而，当赫敏和卢修斯在魔法部的伙伴关系在先知中宣布时，引起芒罗好奇心的反应已经开始出现，赫敏已经抓住了它。

“She doesn’t think that I’ll get absolutely everything I want in – apparently that would make it excessively long and commercially unviable –” Lucius snorted at the resentful edge to Hermione’s tone. “But she isn’t demanding your removal and she isn’t trying to twist anything. I think it’s a fit.”
“她不认为我会得到我想要的一切——显然那会让它变得太长，而且在商业上是不可行的——”卢修斯对赫敏语气中的一丝怨恨哼了一声。“但她不是要求你离开，她也不是想扭曲任何东西。我认为这很合适。

“Publication by the year’s end,” he said, his brow creasing as he read over the letter again. “That’s a lot of work in a short space of time, Hermione. Especially given…” He tipped his head towards his desk and their scrolls.
“年底前出版，”他说，再次阅读这封信时，他的眉头皱了起来。“在很短的时间内，这可是很多工作，赫敏。特别是考虑到......”他把头转向他的书桌和他们的卷轴。

“I know,” she said, briefly biting her lip as her eyes drifted to the desk. “But I can do it.” She looked back to him and smiled. “Besides, the laws are a joint effort.”
“我知道，”她说，短暂地咬了咬嘴唇，目光飘向桌子。“但我能做到。”她回头看向他，微笑着。“此外，这些法律是共同努力的。”

Lucius studied her for a moment, his expression ambivalent. Absolutely sure of her own abilities, Hermione held his gaze, unblinking, until a sharp gust of icy wind came through the window, causing a shiver to pass through her. Using the arm already wrapped around her, Lucius ushered her towards the desk with a murmur of “tea” and closed the window. 
卢修斯打量了她一会儿，他的表情很矛盾。赫敏对自己的能力绝对有信心，她一眨不眨地盯着他，直到一阵尖锐的冰风从窗户吹进来，让她全身发抖。卢修斯用已经缠住她的手臂，用“茶”的喃喃自语将她引向桌子，然后关上了窗户。

March 21st 
3 月 21 日

 

Lucius pushed the door to his study open and strode in, coming to an abrupt halt when he realised there was no wild-haired witch seated behind his desk.The room was lit – candles in the sconces and the fire in the grate – to keep the darkness of the night at bay but for whom, he couldn’t tell. 
卢修斯推开书房的门，大步走了进去，当他意识到他的书桌后面没有野发女巫时，他戛然而止。房间里点着灯——烛台上点着蜡烛，炉排上点着火——以驱散夜晚的黑暗，但他不知道是谁。

“Lucius is that you?”
“卢修斯，是你吗？”

Frowning, Lucius looked around, still finding no one. Then, realising the source of the voice was somewhat lower than he would have expected, he stepped towards the sofa and peered over it to find Hermione lying on the floor between it and the fireplace. 
Lucius皱着眉头环顾四周，仍然没有找到任何人。然后，他意识到声音的来源比他预期的要低一些，他走向沙发，向沙发上看去，发现赫敏躺在沙发和壁炉之间的地板上。

She was lying on her front, leaning on her elbows, her head bent over a manuscript and a quill in her hand. There was a pillow from his sofa beneath her chest and another beneath her hips, apparently placed in some kind of misguided attempt to create comfort. Though her hair had been hastily shoved into an unwieldy ponytail, as he watched her, one of her curls made a break for freedom and dropped against the parchment. She irritably shook her head like she might be able to dislodge the curl from her skull.  
她仰卧着，靠在手肘上，低着头看手稿，手里拿着一支羽毛笔。他的沙发上有一个枕头放在她的胸前，另一个放在她的臀部下面，显然是为了创造舒适感而放的。虽然她的头发被匆忙地扎成一个笨拙的马尾辫，但当他看着她时，她的一头卷发为了自由而断裂，落在了羊皮纸上。她烦躁地摇摇头，仿佛她也许能把头上的卷发移开。

“You realise there’s some very comfortable – not to mention expensive – furniture in this room that’s designed specifically for sitting,” he said, slowly sauntering around the sofa and sinking onto it with a sigh as though to underline his point. 
“你意识到这个房间里有一些非常舒适——更不用说昂贵——专为坐着而设计的家具，”他说，慢慢地绕着沙发走来走去，然后沉到沙发上，叹了口气，仿佛在强调他的观点。

“I was using those,” she mumbled, settling for twirling her curl around her finger rather than yanking it from her head. “But then I was struggling to concentrate so I moved here. Fresh setting.”
“我用的是那些，”她喃喃自语，决定用手指扭动她的卷发，而不是把它从头上拽下来。“但后来我很难集中注意力，所以我搬到了这里。新鲜的环境。

“Perhaps,” Lucius said, leaning forward to lean his elbows on his spread knees, “you were struggling to concentrate because you have been working for hours without a break.”
“也许吧，”卢修斯说，身体前倾，将手肘靠在他张开的膝盖上，“你很难集中注意力，因为你已经工作了几个小时，没有休息过。

“Mornings are for the laws, evenings are for the book edits,” Hermione said with an air of recitation, finally tucking the loose curl behind her ear and turning her head towards him. “I told you that.”
“早晨是法律的，晚上是编辑书籍的，”赫敏带着背诵的语气说，最后把松散的卷发掖到耳后，把头转向他。“我告诉过你了。”

“And when is time for Hermione, hm?” His voice was light but it had a sharp edge to it. “For her to eat a proper meal or sleep , say?”
“那赫敏什么时候该了，嗯？”他的声音很轻，但带着尖锐的锋芒。“让她吃一顿好饭还是睡个好觉，比如说？”

“I have to get this round of edits back by the end of the week, Lucius,” she said, her voice rising and harried. “I can sleep and eat properly when they’re done."
“我得在周末之前把这一轮的编辑拿回来，Lucius，”她说，她的声音提高了，很烦躁。“他们完成后，我可以正常睡觉和吃饭。”

“It’s close to midnight – you’re approaching morning when it’ll be time for the laws,” was his sarcastic response. “Best hurry.”
“快到午夜了——你快到早上了，该出台法律了，”他讽刺地回答。“最好快点。”

Hermione scoffed and turned her attention back to her manuscript, crossing out a word with a vehemence that made him raise his eyebrows. She was exceptionally fractious when overworked 
赫敏嘲笑了一声，把注意力转回了她的手稿上，激烈地划掉了一个词，让他扬起了眉毛。她在过度劳累时特别烦躁

“You’re doing too much,” he said, attempting a more gentle approach. “If you tell Catherine to move the deadline, she will. Or we ease up on the laws slightly – we’re making good progress; the Wizengamot has been inundated with drafts and we can hardly make them move faster in working through them.”
“你做得太多了，”他说，试图用更温和的方式。“如果你告诉凯瑟琳推迟截止日期，她会的。或者我们稍微放松法律——我们正在取得良好的进展;威森加摩已经被气流淹没了，我们很难让他们更快地完成它们。

“I can do this,” she snapped. 
“我能做到，”她厉声说。

“I didn’t say you couldn’t.” All his gentleness evaporated in an instant. “I’m trying to help you.”
“我没说你不能。”他所有的温柔都在一瞬间消失了。“我正在努力帮助你。”

Hermione’s hand froze on the page and he saw her neck jump as she swallowed. Staring down at the parchment, she exhaled slowly through her nose before finally setting her quill down on the floor. “I’m sorry,” she finally said softly, turning her head to him. “I’m not trying to take this out on you, I just – it’s that – I don’t want to let anyone down.” 
赫敏的手僵在书页上，他看到她的脖子在吞咽时跳动。她低头盯着羊皮纸，用鼻子缓缓呼出一口气，最后将羽毛笔放在地板上。“对不起，”她终于轻声说，转头看向他。“我不是想把这件事发泄在你身上，我只是——就是——我不想让任何人失望。”

“You won’t let anyone down,” he said, softening slightly. “Unless you work yourself to death – I confess, I’d be somewhat put out by that.”
“你不会让任何人失望的，”他说，稍微软化了一点。“除非你把自己累死——我承认，我会有点被淘汰。”

Sliding her elbows out, Hermione lowered the side of her head onto the backs of her hands and groaned softly as she finally allowed her strained eyes to drop closed. “God, what I wouldn’t give for that Time Turner again.”
赫敏将胳膊肘滑出，将头的一侧压低到手背上，轻声呻吟着，终于让她紧张的眼睛闭上了。“上帝啊，我不会再为那个时光转换器付出什么了。”

“Time Turner?” he asked, his eyes narrowing with interest.
“时间转换器？” 他问道，饶有兴趣地眯起了眼睛。

She nodded against her hands, eyes still closed, and he blinked incredulously. “ You had a Time Turner?”
她靠着自己的手点点头，眼睛仍然闭着，他难以置信地眨了眨眼。“你有个时光转换器吗？”

“Yes,” she said, her eyes fluttering open. “At Hogwarts, in my third year.”
“是的，”她说，她的眼睛颤抖着睁开。“在霍格沃茨，我三年级的时候。”

“The governors were not informed of that.”
“州长们没有被告知这件事。”

A tired smile crept onto her face as she studied his irritation, a smudge of ink on her cheek catching the light. “If you were, would you have allowed it?”
当她研究他的恼怒时，她的脸上悄悄地浮现出疲惫的笑容，脸颊上的墨水污迹在光线下闪耀。“如果你是这样，你会允许吗？”

“No!” As if any teenager – even one as mind-numbingly conscientious as he imagined she had been – should be given access to something as dangerous and open to misuse as a Time Turner.
“不！”仿佛任何一个青少年——即使是像他想象的那样麻木的认真的青少年——都应该被允许接触像时间转换器一样危险且容易被滥用的东西。

“Well, there you are,” she said simply, her eyes dropping closed again. “That’s why the governors weren't informed.” 
“嗯，你在这里，”她简单地说，她的眼睛又闭上了。“这就是为什么州长们没有得到通知。”

Lucius sighed, taking in the sight of her stretched out on the floor before him like some kind of hopelessly inadequate rug. He was amazed that the heat from the fire roaring alongside her had not managed to lull her to sleep, though the way the tension was visibly seeping out of her body now that she had closed her eyes suggested it might manage it soon. 
卢修斯叹了口气，看着她像某种无可救药的不合格地毯一样伸展在他面前的地板上。他惊讶地发现，在她身边咆哮的火焰的热量并没有让她入睡，尽管在她闭上眼睛后，紧张感明显地从她的身体中渗出，这表明它可能很快就会控制住它。

“Hermione, you need to take a break,” he said. “The work will still be there in the morning and you will be in a better state to do it.” 
“赫敏，你得休息一下，”他说。“工作在早上仍然在那里，你会处于更好的状态来做它。”

“I am taking a break,” she mumbled, adjusting her position on the pillows to get more comfortable. “Look at how good I am at taking a break; I’m lying down and everything.” His eyes drifted down her body, observing the way her movements had made her dress bunch upwards on her thighs. 
“我要休息一下，”她喃喃自语，调整了一下自己在枕头上的位置，让自己舒服一些。“看看我有多擅长休息;我躺着，一切都是。他的目光顺着她的身体飘落，观察着她的动作使她的裙子在大腿上向上聚集的方式。

“I think you would be more comfortable coming to bed.” His eyes travelled up to hers again and he found them open, watching him knowingly. “All of this will be here in the morning, waiting for you.”
“我觉得你上床睡觉会舒服一些。”他的眼睛又回到她的身上，发现眼睛睁开了，明知故犯地看着他。“所有这些都将在早上在这里，等你。”

“I’ll be able to get started faster if I just stay here.”
“如果我留在这里，我就能更快地开始。”

Lucius pursed his lips, visibly unimpressed. He contemplated her for a moment before sliding from the sofa onto his knees beside her. Hermione watched him closely, shifting against the pillows imperceptibly as he drew closer to her. Even though she had been watching him, she jumped slightly when his hand came to rest on the bare skin of her calf. 
卢修斯抿了抿嘴唇，显然不为所动。他凝视了她一会儿，然后从沙发上滑到她身边的膝盖上。赫敏仔细地看着他，当他靠近她时，他不知不觉地靠在枕头上。尽管她一直在看着他，但当他的手停在她小腿裸露的皮肤上时，她微微跳了起来。

“Do I really need to convince you that a bed is preferable to the floor?” he asked, using his thumb to stroke her with a metronomic rhythm.
“我真的需要说服你，床比地板好吗？”他问道，用拇指以节拍的节奏抚摸着她。

“You can try.” His eyes darted up to her face to find she had angled her head down to look at him, a sly but hazy smile playing around her lips.
“你可以试试。”他的眼睛瞥向她的脸，发现她低着头看着他，嘴角浮现出狡猾但朦胧的笑容。

“Close your eyes, Hermione,” he murmured, watching her to make sure she did as requested. Applying more pressure, he rubbed his thumb along her calf muscle, gathering up the tension in it to push it up and out. A muffled moan escaped her and he smirked. 
“闭上眼睛，赫敏，”他喃喃自语，看着她，确保她按照要求做了。他用更大的力气，用拇指在她的小腿肌肉上摩擦，聚集其中的张力，把它向上推出去。她发出一声低沉的呻吟，他得意地笑了。

In silence, he worked at one lower leg and then the other, using her gasps and groans as directions to the most concentrated points of tension. When he reached her thighs, his fingers nudging at the hem of her dress, she tensed beneath him and he paused. It took only a moment for her to make a decision, relaxing and dropping her hips so that they pressed into the cushion beneath her. 
他默默地工作着一条小腿，然后是另一条小腿，用她的喘息和呻吟作为通往最集中的紧张点的方向。当他碰到她的大腿时，他的手指轻推着她的裙子下摆，她在他身下绷紧了身体，他停了下来。她只花了一点时间就做出了决定，放松并放下她的臀部，让它们压在她下面的垫子上。

Lucius pushed the hem of her dress up to clear his path, revealing most of her knickers to him. The firelight danced across her skin, making it look so warm and incredibly inviting that it took a great deal of his self control not to just bury his face into her. Clearing his throat, he worked his fingertips into the crease between her thighs, his request clear in his touch. Another momentary pause before, with no small amount of satisfaction, he watched her slowly part her legs. 
卢修斯把她的裙子下摆往上推，让他开脱，把她的大部分短裤都露在他面前。火光在她的皮肤上跳舞，让它看起来如此温暖和难以置信的诱人，以至于他需要很大的自制力才能不把脸埋进她里面。清清嗓子，他用指尖抚摸着她大腿之间的褶皱，他的请求在他的触碰中清晰地表达出来。然后又短暂地停顿了一下，他带着不小的满足感，看着她慢慢地分开她的双腿。

“Good girl,” he said quietly, his thumb pressing into the back of the thigh closest to him while his fingers curved around the inside of it. “Isn’t this better than what you were doing?”
“好女孩，”他轻声说，拇指按在离他最近的大腿后部，同时他的手指在大腿内侧弯曲。“这难道不比你刚才做的要好吗？”

An incoherent mumble was all the response he received and he chuckled, the sound low and grumbling in his chest. The crackling fire and the ticking grandfather clock on the far side of the room were not loud enough to cover the sound of her breathing more laboured as he worked his way up. 
他得到的回应是一声语无伦次的喃喃自语，他咯咯地笑了起来，声音低沉而在他的胸口咕哝着。噼啪作响的炉火和房间另一边滴答作响的老爷钟声音不足以掩盖她在他努力上升时更加费力的呼吸声。

When his fingers finally reached the apex of her thighs, she didn’t make a sound but spread her legs wider. Only a centimetre or two at most, but he noticed it. With deliberate softness, like it could have been an accident, he brushed the side of his forefinger against the crotch of her knickers, drawing a faint groan from her as her hips jumped. 
当他的手指终于到达她的大腿根部时，她没有发出声音，而是把双腿张得更宽了。最多只有一两厘米，但他注意到了。他故意轻柔地，就像这可能是一场意外一样，用食指的侧面抚摸着她的短裤裤裆，当她的臀部跳动时，她发出了微弱的呻吟。

Then he drew his hand away and started working at the base of her other thigh, starting the long process all over again. It didn’t take long for her to start squirming. By the time he was reaching the top of her leg, she had arched her lower back, her hips practically hovering over the cushion to create a more accessible angle for him. 
然后他把手抽开，开始在她的另一条大腿根部工作，重新开始漫长的过程。没过多久，她就开始蠕动起来。当他到达她的腿顶时，她已经拱起了她的下背部，她的臀部几乎悬停在垫子上，以便为他创造一个更容易接近的角度。

Squeezing his fingertips into her outer leg, he pressed his thumb into the soft skin at the very top of her inner thigh, skimming the very edges of her knickers as he brought it round in a sweeping motion. She mumbled something that sounded like “god” into her hands and he smiled to himself. 
他的指尖挤进她的外腿，将拇指按在她大腿内侧柔软的皮肤上，掠过她的内裤边缘，以扫动的动作将其转过来。她喃喃自语着什么听起来像“神”的东西，他对自己笑了笑。

Unable to resist, he brought his hand back to her knickers, rubbing where he knew her core to be with the knuckles of his fore and middle fingers. A choked noise escaped her and her hips rocked slightly, trying to generate more friction. Deciding to be generous – she was stressed – he gave her the friction she was seeking, his fingers drifting up to rub around her clit. Her leg closest to him jerked, bending at the knee to open wider. The heat emanating from her would have put the fire to shame and he was fairly sure her wetness could have put it out.
他无法抗拒，把手放回她的内裤上，用食指和中指的指关节摩擦着他知道她的核心所在的地方。她发出哽咽的声音，她的臀部轻轻摇晃，试图产生更多的摩擦。他决定慷慨大方——她很紧张——他给了她她所寻求的摩擦，他的手指向上滑动，在她的阴蒂上摩擦。她离他最近的腿抽搐了一下，在膝盖处弯曲以更大程度地张开。她散发出的热量会让火感到羞愧，他相当确定她的湿漉漉可以扑灭它。

“Take them off,” she panted, her voice slightly hoarse from lack of use. Lucius’ eyes drifted to hers, finding her watching him, still with her temple heavy on the backs of her hands. Her pupils were blown and her lips were parted to accommodate her heavy breathing.
“把它们脱掉，”她喘着粗气，因为没有用过，她的声音略微嘶哑。卢修斯的目光飘向她，发现她正在看着他，她的太阳穴仍然沉重地压在她的手背上。她的瞳孔被吹开，她的嘴唇张开以适应她沉重的呼吸。

“Not very polite, Hermione,” he observed lightly, continuing his ministrations. “Have I been spoiling you? To make you think that you can just…demand?”
“不是很客气，赫敏，”他淡淡地观察着，继续他的侍奉。“我有没有宠坏你？为了让你认为你可以......需求？

“You can’t help but spoil –” He pressed the tip of his middle finger against her entrance through the damp cotton and she whimpered. “ Please . Please take them off.”
“你忍不住要剧透——”他用中指尖隔着潮湿的棉花抵在她的入口处，她呜咽着。“请 .请把它们脱下来。

“Only if you come to bed,” he said, continuing to apply the pressure while starting a slow circular pattern, tilting his head to better appreciate the way she was trying to push herself against him. 
“除非你上床睡觉，”他说，一边继续施加压力，同时开始一个缓慢的圆周模式，歪着头以更好地欣赏她试图将自己推向他的方式。

“Lucius –”
“卢修斯——”

“ Only if you come to bed,” he said, using his least compromising tone, though his trousers had grown so tight that he wasn’t actually sure he’d be able to get to his feet if she gave in.
“除非你上床睡觉，”他说，用他最不妥协的语气，尽管他的裤子已经变得如此紧绷，以至于他实际上不确定如果她屈服，他能不能站起来。

“Fine,” she finally ground out, wriggling to push herself up and mercifully missing Lucius’ smug, victorious grin as he drew his hand away. “But we are not going to sleep and you only have yourself to blame.”
“好吧，”她终于停下脚步，扭动着身体想把自己撑起来，怜悯地错过了卢修斯在他抽开手时得意洋洋、胜利的笑容。“但我们不会睡觉，你只能怪你自己。”

Chapter 41
章 41Chapter Summary
本章小结

Hermione celebrates her birthday
赫敏庆祝她的生日

Chapter Notes
章节注释

Uuuuh, you might have noticed that the chapter total for this story went from 44 to 43. Basically, I couldn't get chapters 41 and 42 to come out the way I wanted them so I completely deleted them and reworked elements from both into this single chapter which I'm a little more happy with. The good news is: new chapter! Bad news: one less chapter than we thought. I'm sorry!
呃，你可能已经注意到，这个故事的总章数从 44 章增加到了 43 章。基本上，我无法让第 41 章和第 42 章按照我想要的方式出现，所以我完全删除了它们并将两者的元素重新制作成这一章，我对此感到更满意。好消息是：新篇章！坏消息：比我们想象的少了一章。对不起！

 September 19th 2007
2007 年 9 月 19 日

 

“Ginny this is unbelievable,” Hermione said, faintly awed.
“金妮，这太不可思议了，”赫敏说，略带敬畏。

A large table in the Hog's Head was practically creaking under the weight of the food Ginny had laid out. All manner of sweet and savoury treats were fighting for Hermione’s attention, from sandwiches bursting with fillings to crisp, colourful salads. At the centre of it all was a thickly-iced, three tier birthday cake.
猪头上的一张大桌子在金妮摆放的食物的重量下几乎吱吱作响。各种各样的甜味和咸味美食都在争夺赫敏的注意力，从馅料丰富的三明治到酥脆多彩的沙拉。这一切的中心是一个厚厚的三层生日蛋糕。

“When I said a little brunch for my birthday I was thinking along rather…er, smaller lines.” Hermione plucked a chocolate coated strawberry from a bowl and looked around at Ginny who was using her wand to hang up some birthday banners.
“当我说生日时吃点早午餐时，我在想......呃，更小的线路。赫敏从碗里摘了一个涂有巧克力的草莓，环顾四周，看着金妮，她正在用魔杖挂一些生日横幅。

“It’s nothing – it’s not every day you turn 28,” Ginny said with a dismissive shake of her head. “Although, I’d like you to remember I put in this effort when Harry’s planning my birthday and tries to suggest a quiet night in.” Flicking her wand to send a particularly violent burst of pink and orange streamers in the direction of one of the roof beams, Ginny gave Hermione a very intense, unblinking look. “That’s not on.”
“没什么——不是每天你都满 28 岁，”金妮轻蔑地摇了摇头说。“不过，我希望你记住，当哈利计划我的生日时，我付出了努力，并试图建议我度过一个安静的夜晚。”金妮挥动魔杖，向其中一根屋顶横梁的方向发出特别猛烈的粉红色和橙色飘带，她给了赫敏一个非常强烈、一眨不眨的眼神。“那不开。”

Snorting, Hermione surveyed the table for her next treat. “I think he just tends towards caution after that night in the Muggle nightclub for your 24th. You remember?”
赫敏哼了一声，打量着桌子，寻找她的下一个零食。“我觉得他只是在那晚在麻瓜夜总会的24岁生日之后变得小心翼翼。你还记得吗？

“Oh.” Ginny shook her head impatiently, lowering her wand to plant her hands on her hips. “That was an age ago. Besides, that ‘bouncy’ was being so daft – George’s dancing was fine.” Hermione popped a Fizzing Whizzbee into her mouth in an attempt to muddle her sceptical expression. “He always dances like that and no one’s ever called it a ‘health hazard’ before.”
“哦。”金妮不耐烦地摇了摇头，放下魔杖，把手放在她的臀部上。“那是很久以前的事了。此外，那个'有弹性'太愚蠢了——乔治的舞蹈很好。赫敏把一个嘶嘶作响的飞蜂塞进嘴里，试图混淆她怀疑的表情。“他总是那样跳舞，以前从来没有人称其为'健康危害'。”

Hermione swallowed her sweet along with her desire to say ‘bouncer’ and add that said bouncer had also called George ‘a fucking menace to society’. George’s dancing had, after all, involved a great deal of kicking and swinging a thrilled Angelina around, which wasn’t exactly the etiquette in a cramped London nightclub.
赫敏吞下了她的甜食，她想说“保镖”，并补充说那个保镖还称乔治为“他妈的对社会的威胁”。毕竟，乔治的舞蹈涉及大量的踢腿和摆动，让兴奋的安吉丽娜四处走动，这并不完全是伦敦狭窄夜总会的礼仪。

“I’ll guide Harry down the right path,” she finally said, receiving a grateful smile. 
“我会引导哈利走上正确的道路，”她终于说了，露出了感激的微笑。

Peering down at her watch, Ginny slid her wand into her back pocket. “People will be arriving soon, we'd best hurry.” 
金妮低头看了看手表，把魔杖塞进了后兜。“人们很快就会到，我们最好快点。”

Turning on the spot to look at the other side of the pub where Harry and Ron were supposed to be blowing up balloons, Ginny found Harry rubbing one against his head to show a fascinated Ron the static. “Harry Potter, so help me, if you don’t hurry up I will shove that balloon so far up your –”
金妮当场转身看向酒吧的另一边，哈利和罗恩本来应该在那里吹气球，但金妮发现哈利正在用一个气球在他的头上摩擦，向着迷的罗恩展示静电。“哈利·波特，帮帮我，如果你不快点，我就把那个气球推到你——”

“We’re doing it!” Harry cried, leaping to his feet, the balloon sliding down his face. “We’re nearly done.”
“我们正在做！”哈利喊道，跳起来，气球从他的脸上滑落。“我们快完成了。”

By noon the Hog's Head was pleasantly crowded and buzzing with conversation, its single-pane windows steaming up and blocking out the bright autumn colours outside. 
到了中午，猪头已经挤得令人愉快，嗡嗡作响，单层玻璃窗冒着热气，挡住了外面明亮的秋色。

Ginny had taken charge of the guest list and had glazed over in response to Hermione’s request to please keep it small. It had been hard to press the point too firmly when Ginny had graciously offered to arrange hiring the pub for the afternoon with Aberforth. 
金妮负责客人名单，并应赫敏的要求，请保持小规模。当金妮慷慨地提出安排下午和阿不福思一起租酒吧时，我很难太坚定地强调这一点。

On surveying the room, however, Hermione found herself pleasantly surprised by Ginny’s relative restraint. It wasn’t as small as Hermione would have personally made it but it wasn’t as wild as she knew Ginny could have gone. There were, for instance, no cherubs.
然而，在打量房间时，赫敏发现自己对金妮的相对克制感到惊喜。它不像赫敏亲自做的那么小，但也没有她知道金妮可能走的那么狂野。例如，没有小天使。

The Weasleys were gathered around a table, George regaling them with a tale of his latest run-in with a shoplifter; Dean, Seamus, Parvati and Katie Bell were standing by the bar, waiting for Aberforth to prepare their drinks while they caught up; Luna and Pansy were admiring the food table, the former praising Ginny’s talent for catering while the latter accused her of being “an absolute bitch” for serving her weakness which was, apparently, chocolate cauldrons.
韦斯莱一家围坐在一张桌子旁，乔治向他们讲述了他最近与一名扒手发生冲突的故事;Dean、Seamus、Parvati 和 Katie Bell 站在吧台旁，等着 Aberforth 准备他们的饮料;卢娜和潘西正在欣赏餐桌上的食物，前者称赞金妮的餐饮才华，而后者则指责她是“绝对的婊子”，因为她满足了自己的弱点，显然是巧克力大锅。

It was a nice crowd and as Hermione stood with Harry and Ron, sipping from a glass of wine, she felt entirely content. 
这是一群很好的人，当赫敏和哈利、罗恩站在一起，啜饮着一杯酒时，她感到非常满足。

“Do, er –” Ron cleared his throat, hopefully eyeing Neville up who had just wandered up to the bar. “Do you think Hannah will drop by? It is a Saturday.”
“做，呃——”罗恩清了清嗓子，满怀希望地盯着刚刚走到酒吧的纳威。“你觉得汉娜会过来吗？今天是星期六。

Ginny, who had just been passing and managed to overhear Ron, gave him a filthy look as she stopped at Hermione’s side. 
刚才路过的金妮偷偷听到了罗恩的声音，当她停在赫敏身边时，她狠狠地瞪了他一眼。

“She said she’s got a few students in the Hospital Wing with mumps, so she can’t come.” Raising her gin and tonic to her lips, Ginny eyed his disappointed face over the rim of it. “Probably just as well,” she added. “If you’re planning to grovel, Ron, try not to do it at a party – it brings the mood down. And it’s embarrassing.”
“她说她在医院翼楼有几个患有流行性腮腺炎的学生，所以她不能来。”金妮把杜松子酒和奎宁水举到嘴边，看着他失望的脸。“可能也一样，”她补充道。“如果你打算卑躬屈膝，罗恩，尽量不要在派对上这样做——这会让气氛低落。这很尴尬。

Ron’s ears immediately went pink, his hand squeezing around his glass so that the tips of his fingers were pressed white. Hermione met Harry’s eyes from between the scowling Weasleys, trying to signal that it might be necessary to initiate an interceptive manoeuvre, when Ron abruptly called “Neville!” and marched away, just brushing Ginny’s shoulder as he went. 
罗恩的耳朵立刻变成了粉红色，他的手捏着他的眼镜，以至于他的指尖被压得发白。赫敏从皱着眉头的韦斯莱夫妇之间与哈利的眼睛对上，试图示意可能有必要发起一次拦截行动，这时罗恩突然喊了一声“纳威”，然后走开了，只是在金妮走的时候擦了擦他的肩膀。

Ginny spun on her heel and watched Ron and Neville’s backs with narrowed eyes. “What’s the betting,” she asked in an undertone, leaning into Harry and Hermione, “he asks Neville if Hannah’s been talking about him?” 
金妮用脚后跟转过来，眯起眼睛看着罗恩和纳威的背影。“打赌什么，”她低声问道，靠在哈利和赫敏身上，“他问纳威汉娜是不是一直在谈论他？

“I’ll be amazed if he hasn’t already,” Harry replied, pushing his glasses up to rub the bridge of his nose with a slightly exhausted air. 
“如果他还没听说过，我会很惊讶的，”哈利回答道，把眼镜推高，用略显疲惫的空气摩擦着他的鼻梁。

“She’d sooner catch dragon pox than have him back,” Ginny fumed, “and I hope Neville tells him that because she’d be better off with –”
“她宁愿染上龙痘，也不愿让他回来，”金妮生气地说，“我希望纳威告诉他，因为她最好有——”

“Malfoy!”
“马尔福！”

“Eh?” Ginny asked, looking askance at Hermione. “Isn’t he married ?”
“嗯？”金妮问道，疑惑地看着赫敏。“他不是结婚了吗？”

Hermione shook her head impatiently and pointed towards the door of the Hog's Head, through which Draco Malfoy had just entered. He was carrying a large box in his arms and looked distinctly uncomfortable as Hermione’s shout prompted the entire room to look towards him, their conversations fading like someone had just turned the volume down.
赫敏不耐烦地摇了摇头，指了指德拉科·马尔福刚刚进来的猪头门。他怀里抱着一个大盒子，看起来显然很不舒服，因为赫敏的喊叫让整个房间都看向他，他们的谈话就像有人刚刚把音量调低了一样。

Rolling onto her tiptoes, Hermione waved him over, blithely ignoring the fact that he looked like he wanted to kill her. 
赫敏踮起脚尖，向他挥手，轻描淡写地无视了他看起来想要杀了她的事实。

“Thanks for making it an inconspicuous entrance, Granger,” Draco muttered as he reached her, his eyes darting around to check how many of her friends were still watching him. “Much appreciated.”
“谢谢你把它弄得不起眼，格兰杰，”德拉科走到她身边时咕哝着，他的眼睛四处张望，看看有多少她的朋友还在看着他。“非常感谢。”

“Well, I’m pleased to see you!” Hermione nudged him playfully and he accepted it stoically, like a stone column struck by a wind-propelled leaf. “I didn’t expect you.”
“嗯，我很高兴见到你！”赫敏开玩笑地推了他一下，他坚忍地接受了它，就像一根被风吹动的树叶击中的石柱。“我没想到你。”

“Weasley sent me an invite,” Draco said, redirecting his glare to Ginny. “Though it read more like a threat.”
“韦斯莱给我发了一个邀请，”德拉科说，把目光转向金妮。“虽然它读起来更像是一种威胁。”

“It was simply a friendly reminder that it’s a very poor friend who doesn’t attend a birthday party without a good excuse,” Ginny said primly. “And an even worse stepson.”
“这只是一个友好的提醒，这是一个非常可怜的朋友，没有好借口就不参加生日派对，”金妮一本正经地说。“还有一个更糟糕的继子。”

“Ginny,” Hermione groaned. Malfoy, meanwhile, merely closed his eyes, his brow furrowing with the effort of staying polite.
“金妮，”赫敏呻吟道。与此同时，马尔福只是闭上了眼睛，他努力保持礼貌地皱起了眉头。

“Gifts?” Ginny prompted, gliding over the awkward moment of her own creation with practised ease. “Lovely wrapping.”
“礼物？”金妮提示道，熟练地轻松地滑过了她自己创造的尴尬时刻。“包装很可爱。”

Easing his eyes open, Draco followed Ginny’s keen gaze to the two perfectly wrapped packages in his arms. There was a large black box, tied up with a shimmering silver ribbon, and, on top of it, a much smaller package in green paper with a black ribbon. 
德拉科缓缓地睁开眼睛，顺着金妮敏锐的目光看向他怀里两个包装完好的包裹。有一个大黑盒子，用一条闪闪发光的银色丝带系着，上面还有一个小得多的绿色纸包，上面有一条黑色的丝带。

“Er, yes,” Draco said, unceremoniously thrusting them towards Hermione. “The bottom one is from Astoria, Scorpius and I. The top one is father.”
“呃，是的，”德拉科说，毫不客气地把他们推向赫敏。“最下面的一个来自阿斯托利亚、斯科皮和我。最上面的是爸爸。

Frowning, Hermione allowed Ginny to take her glass of wine before extending her arms out to take the gifts. “From your –” She glanced up at Draco. “I’m having dinner with him tonight at the manor, why would he send his gift here with you?”
赫敏皱着眉头，让金妮拿走她的酒杯，然后伸出双臂接过礼物。“从你的——”她抬头看了一眼德拉科。“我今晚在庄园和他一起吃晚饭，他为什么要把他的礼物和你一起送到这里来？”

“Honestly?” Draco asked, taking advantage of his free hands to sweep a lock of hair from his forehead. “I imagine because he wants to show it off.” His eyes flicked upwards in a half roll. “He was very pleased with himself.”
“老实说？”德拉科问道，趁着他空出来的手扫了一缕他额头上的头发。“我想是因为他想炫耀。”他的眼睛向上眨了半个眼圈。“他对自己非常满意。”

A fond smile quirked at Hermione’s lips as she looked down at Lucius’ gift, her fingers brushing the shiny green wrapping paper and black velvet ribbon curiously. In the silence that fell, Draco briefly rolled onto the balls of his feet, inhaled deeply, and looked at Harry. 
赫敏低头看着卢修斯的礼物，嘴角浮现出一丝亲切的微笑，她的手指好奇地抚摸着闪亮的绿色包装纸和黑色天鹅绒丝带。在一片寂静中，德拉科短暂地滚到他的脚掌上，深吸一口气，看着哈利。

“Potter,” he said stiffly, his head sort of jerking upwards, as though he was trying to shoo away a fly without using his hands.
“波特，”他僵硬地说，他的头有点猛地抬起，仿佛他想不用手就赶走一只苍蝇。

Harry appeared to hesitate before removing one of his hands from his pint to decisively thrust it into the space between them. “Malfoy.” 
哈利似乎犹豫了一下，然后从他的一品脱啤酒中抽出一只手，果断地把它了他们之间的空隙。“马尔福。”

Eyebrows shooting up, Draco looked down at Harry’s hand like it had just started a particularly off-tune rendition of Happy Birthday. His grey eyes darted briefly to Hermione, who gave him an encouraging smile over her gifts. Quietly clearing his throat, Malfoy unclenched his fist and finally shook Harry’s hand firmly. 
德拉科眉毛扬起，低头看着哈利的手，就像它刚刚开始了一段特别跑调的生日快乐。他灰色的眼睛短暂地瞥向赫敏，赫敏对她的礼物给了他一个鼓励的微笑。马尔福悄悄地清了清嗓子，松开了握紧的拳头，终于用力握住了哈利的手。

“Good to see you.”
“很高兴见到你。”

“Likewise,” Harry said, visibly relieved that Malfoy had made an effort in return. “So, er… how are you liking being a dad? What age is he now?” 
“同样，”哈利说，显然对马尔福做出了努力作为回报感到松了一口气。“所以，呃......你觉得当爸爸怎么样？他现在几岁了？

A smile flitted across Draco’s face and Hermione spied his other hand uncurling from its fist. “It’s fucking exhausting, though I’m sure I don’t need to tell you that. He’s just turned one.”
德拉科的脸上闪过一丝笑容，赫敏发现他的另一只手从拳头上松开。“这他妈的很累，不过我确定我不需要告诉你。他才刚满一岁。

“Oh that’s a wonderful age, though,” Ginny enthused, clutching her drink to her chest with both hands. “They become so cuddly .”
“哦，那真是个美妙的时代，”金妮兴奋地说，双手把饮料攥在胸前。“他们变得如此可爱。”

“Oh, yeah, he loves cuddles,” Draco scoffed. “From his mother . He’s become especially fond of smacking me.”
“哦，对了，他喜欢拥抱，”德拉科嘲笑道。“从他的母亲那里。他变得特别喜欢打我了。

“Yeah, James got so attached to him last year,” Ginny said, casting Harry an irritated glare. “I couldn’t get a look in.”
“是啊，詹姆斯去年对他太依恋了，”金妮说，恼怒地瞪了哈利一眼。“我没能进去看。”

“Ginny told me James was a pretty big fan of you, actually,” Harry said, edging out of Ginny’s reach. 
“实际上，金妮告诉我詹姆斯是你的忠实粉丝，”哈利说，慢慢地躲开了金妮。

When Draco instinctively glanced around his feet almost nervously, Harry chuckled. “He’s not here, don’t worry; Molly and Arthur have the kids today. But he doesn’t take to everyone that quickly.” With a sly smile in Hermione’s direction, he added, “Just ask Hermione.”
当德拉科本能地近乎紧张地环顾四周时，哈利咯咯地笑了起来。“他不在这里，别担心;Molly 和 Arthur 今天有了孩子。但他不会那么快就接受所有人。他朝赫敏的方向狡猾地笑了笑，补充道，“问问赫敏就知道。

“Excuse me,” Hermione snapped, adjusting the boxes in her arms so that she could make her glower unmistakable. “James loves his godmother very much.”
“对不起，”赫敏厉声说，调整了一下她怀里的盒子，这样她就可以让她的眼睛清晰无误。“詹姆斯非常爱他的教母。”

“Yeah, but how long did that take?” Harry asked, eyebrows rising.
“是的，但那花了多长时间？”哈利问道，眉毛扬起。

“It really did take a while,” Ginny said wonderingly, her eyes unfocused as she recalled her son’s red-faced determination to avoid being held by Hermione.
“真的花了一段时间，”金妮疑惑地说，她的眼睛没有焦点，因为她回想起儿子红着脸避免被赫敏抱着的决心。

“Cried every time he looked at her for the first three months,” Harry muttered to Draco before lifting his pint to his lips. 
“头三个月里，他每次看着她都哭，”哈利喃喃自语着对德拉科说，然后把一品脱啤酒举到嘴边。

“Trying to recruit him to SPEW was she?” Draco asked dryly.
“是她想把他招募到SPEW来吗？”德拉科干巴巴地问。

Harry coughed up his beer as Hermione sneered at them both in turn. “While it’s just lovely that you’ve decided to bond by making jokes at my expense, it’s my birthday and so help me God I will –”
哈利咳出了他的啤酒，赫敏依次对他们俩冷笑。“虽然你决定以我的名义开玩笑来建立联系真是太好了，但这是我的生日，所以上帝啊，我会——”

“I think, Hermione, that you might enjoy opening some presents!" Ginny interjected chirpily. “Malfoy, let’s get you a drink. Hermione, wait over there. Without cursing anyone, please; it might be your birthday but I organised it and I have a no maiming rule.”
“我想，赫敏，你可能会喜欢打开一些礼物！”金妮轻快地插嘴。“马尔福，我们给你请一杯。赫敏，在那边等着。 请不要诅咒任何人;这可能是你的生日，但我安排了它，而且我有一条不致残的规定。

“Where was that rule this morning when you threatened to shove that balloon up my –” Harry cut himself off by taking a theatrically large drink when his wife fixed him with a threatening glare.
“今天早上你威胁要把那个气球推上我的——”哈利戏剧性地喝了一大杯酒，这时他的妻子用威胁的目光盯着他，打断了自己。

“I was just dropping off the gift, I really wasn’t planning to –” Draco tried to say before Ginny, her hands occupied by drinks, started using her entire body to usher him towards the bar. 
“我只是送礼物，我真的不打算——”德拉科试图说，然后金妮的手被饮料占据，开始用她的整个身体把他引向吧台。

“I’ll get you a top up, Hermione,” she said over her shoulder. “And then we can start.”
“我给你加杯，赫敏，”她转过头说。“然后我们就可以开始了。”

By the time Hermione had gotten halfway through opening her gifts, she'd managed to draw an audience, her friends gathering around with their drinks in hand to observe and, in some cases, offer commentary on, what she'd received.
当赫敏打开礼物的一半时，她已经成功地吸引了一群观众，她的朋友们手里拿着饮料围在一起观察，在某些情况下，对她收到的东西发表评论。

“That one's mum and dad,” Ron called when Ginny passed Hermione a soft, light package from the pile. “Three guesses what category of knitwear it is.”
“那个是爸爸妈妈，”当金妮从一堆包裹中递给赫敏一个柔软轻便的包裹时，罗恩喊道。“三个人猜它是什么类型的针织品。”

Grinning, Hermione tore open the paper to find a beautifully soft, scarlet scarf that had quite clearly been knitted by Molly Weasley herself. “Oh, I love it! It’s just what I needed,” Hermione said, unfolding it to drape it around her neck and rub her cheek against it. “I’ll need to stop in and see them tomorrow.”
赫敏咧嘴一笑，撕开纸，发现一条漂亮柔软的猩红色围巾，显然是莫丽·韦斯莱自己编织的。“哦，我喜欢它！这正是我需要的，“赫敏说，展开它，把它挂在她的脖子上，用脸颊摩擦它。“我明天得停下来看看他们。”

Adding the paper to the ripped and torn pile beside her, Hermione cleared some space for Ginny, who was already pushing the large black box Draco had brought with him into it. "Right, Malfoy," she huffed. "You win the biggest box award."
赫敏把那张纸放到她身边那堆破烂不堪的纸上，给金妮腾出了一些空间，金妮已经把德拉科带来的那个大黑匣子推进去了。“对，马尔福，”她气喘吁吁地说。“你赢得了最大的盒子奖。”

“Thanks, Weasley, that was my aim,” Draco said from the edge of the crowd, raising his glass in mock cheers. Hermione smiled at him, pleased that Ginny had persuaded him to stay for a while, even if it had been with some aggression. It was nice to see him outside of the manor – sometimes she forgot that he wasn't under house arrest.
“谢谢，韦斯莱，这就是我的目标，”德拉科在人群边缘说，举起酒杯发出嘲讽的欢呼。赫敏对他微笑，很高兴金妮说服他留下来一段时间，即使有些咄咄逼人。在庄园外面见到他真是太好了——有时她忘记了他没有被软禁。

Pulling the silvery ribbon on the box loose, Hermione directed a curious look at Draco from beneath her brow as she eased the lid off. Peering inside, she let out a soft gasp. “Oh, Malfoy.”
赫敏解开盒子上的银色丝带，在她缓开盖子时，从她的额头下好奇地看了德拉科一眼。她向里面望去，轻轻地喘息了一声。“哦，马尔福。”

“Let’s see what it is, Granger,” Pansy snapped, attracting a wide-eyed look from Percy. “I want to see the presents, not guess what they are ."
“让我们看看这是什么，格兰杰，”潘西厉声说，吸引了珀西睁大眼睛的目光。“我想看看礼物，而不是猜它们是什么。”

“Yes, Hermione,” Luna said, a good deal more gently and enthusiastically. “Show us.”
“是的，赫敏，”卢娜说，语气更加温和和热情。“让我们看看。”

Dipping her hands into the box, Hermione lifted out a set of dress robes, prompting an envious gasp from Fleur. 
赫敏把手伸进盒子里，拿出一套礼服长袍，惹得芙蓉羡慕地倒抽了一口气。

The robes were midnight blue and made of a silk of such high quality that it behaved more like a liquid when Hermione held them aloft, pouring itself out until it brushed the floor. As she turned the robes to hold them against herself, Hermione noticed faint silvery swirls in the material when they caught the light
长袍是午夜蓝色的，由如此优质的丝绸制成，当赫敏将它们高高举起时，它的行为更像是液体，将自己倒出，直到它刷到地板上。当她转动长袍以将它们贴在自己身上时，赫敏注意到当它们受到光线的影响时，材料中出现了微弱的银色漩涡

“They’re beautiful, Draco,” Hermione said, looking up from the robes as she swished them around her legs. “I don’t really know what to say. Thank you so much.”
“他们很漂亮，德拉科，”赫敏说，从长袍上抬起头来，在她的腿上晃动着它们。“我真的不知道该说什么。非常感谢。

“I never want to have to transfigure a nightdress for you again,” he said, his expression deadly serious. “Let’s just agree that I’ll get you gifts like this going forward and you’ll accept them. Perhaps even wear them.”
“我再也不想为你变形睡裙了，”他说，他的表情非常严肃。“让我们同意，我以后会给你这样的礼物，你会接受的。也许甚至戴上它们。

Laughing, her cheeks growing pink under everyone’s curious stares, Hermione nodded. 
赫敏笑了起来，她的脸颊在大家好奇的注视下变得粉红色，赫敏点了点头。

"When was he in about your nightdresses?" Ron asked crossly but Hermione pretended she didn’t hear him, neatly folding the robes back into the box and placing the lid back over them.
“他什么时候来找你的睡裙的？”罗恩反问道，但赫敏假装没听见他的话，巧妙地把长袍叠回盒子里，把盖子盖回去。

“Alright," said Ginny, "now we have –”
“好了，”金妮说，“现在我们有——”

“Oh, that’s the one from Lucius,” Hermione said eagerly, reaching towards the green-wrapped gift in Ginny’s hands. 
“哦，那是卢修斯送的，”赫敏急切地说，把手伸向金妮手中的绿色包装的礼物。

Although no one said anything, Hermione felt a palpable shift in the atmosphere, like everyone around her had just straightened up with interest. 
虽然没有人说什么，但赫敏感觉到气氛发生了明显的变化，就像她周围的每个人都刚刚饶有兴趣地直起身来。

They all knew about her and Lucius but Hermione was well aware that she was still relatively secretive about their relationship. None of them, with the exception of Draco, had actually witnessed it. This was, she supposed as she weighed the gift in her hands, their first real insight.
他们都知道她和卢修斯的事情，但赫敏很清楚她对他们的关系仍然相对保密。除了德拉科之外，他们都没有真正目睹过这一切。当她权衡手中的礼物时，她想，这是他们第一次真正的洞察力。

Her heart beat rather fast as she unpicked the ribbon, an odd eagerness making her hands tremble. She so rarely allowed Lucius to get her gifts but he had been so insistent that she shut up and let him do something nice for at least one birthday that she’d started to feel rather churlish denying him. 
当她解开丝带时，她的心跳得相当快，一种奇怪的渴望使她的手颤抖起来。她很少让卢修斯拿她的礼物，但他一直如此坚持，以至于她闭嘴，让他至少在一个生日里做点好事，以至于她开始觉得拒绝他相当粗鲁。

Carefully peeling back the green paper, Hermione found soft, deep red leather beneath. Intrigued, she ripped away the rest of the paper and let out a breathy “oh” when Lucius’ gift was fully revealed to her.
赫敏小心翼翼地剥开绿色的纸，在下面发现了柔软的深红色皮革。出于好奇，她撕掉了纸的其余部分，当卢修斯的礼物完全暴露在她面前时，她发出了一声喘息的“哦”。

“It’s a book?” George asked, sounding somewhat disappointed.
“这是一本书？”乔治问道，听起来有些失望。

“It’s my book,” Hermione murmured disbelievingly, running her fingers reverently across the gold-embossed letters on its front. Sonorus: An Oral History of the Second Wizarding War . And at the bottom her name: Hermione Granger . 
“这是我的书，”赫敏难以置信地喃喃自语，用手指虔诚地滑过书正面的金色浮雕字母。 索诺鲁斯：第二次巫师战争的口述历史 .在底部，她的名字是：赫敏·格兰杰。

“I thought it wasn’t out until next month?” Bill muttered to Harry, who simply shrugged, his eyes fixed on Hermione with no small amount of wonder.
“我以为它要到下个月才会出来？”比尔对哈利喃喃自语，哈利只是耸了耸肩，他的眼睛盯着赫敏，带着不小的惊奇。

There was a stinging in her nose, and possibly a golden snitch lodged in her throat, as she turned the book in her hands to admire it from every angle. 
她的鼻子一阵刺痛，可能还有一条金色的飞贼卡在她的喉咙里，她把书拿在手里，从各个角度欣赏它。

It was beautifully bound, the deep red leather offset by brilliant gold stitching and gilt edges. Hermione peered at the spine and found a single large ruby embedded in it. Oblivious to everyone watching her, she flipped open the cover and beamed when she found Lucius’ swooping handwriting waiting for her. 
它装订得很漂亮，深红色的皮革被明亮的金色缝线和镀金边缘所抵消。赫敏盯着书脊，发现里面嵌着一颗大红宝石。她没有理会所有看着她的人，翻开封面，当她发现卢修斯俯冲的笔迹在等着她时，她露出了笑容。

I persuaded Catherine to send me an additional final proof so I could have it specially bound , his note read. And I was perfectly polite, before you start fretting. If you’re going to go to the trouble of writing a book, then you should get it first and it should look better than every other edition. Happy Birthday, Hermione. I’ll see you tonight.  
我说服凯瑟琳给我寄了一份额外的最终校样，这样我就可以特别装订它了，他的便条上写着。 在你开始烦恼之前，我非常有礼貌。如果你要费心写一本书，那么你应该先买它，它应该比其他所有版本看起来都好。生日快乐，赫敏。今晚见。

Sniffing, Hermione raised her head to look tearfully at Draco who shook his head, faintly disgusted. “He’ll be delighted with this reaction,” he said. “Unbearable, both of you.”
赫敏嗅了嗅，抬起头，泪流满面地看着德拉科，德拉科摇了摇头，略带厌恶。“他会对这种反应感到高兴，”他说。“难以忍受，你们俩。”

“Let us have a look, Hermione, go on,” Ginny said, stepping forward to carefully ease the book from Hermione’s grip.
“我们来看看吧，赫敏，继续说，”金妮说，走上前小心翼翼地把书从赫敏的手里解开。

Ron snatched a chocolate frog from the generous pile of Honeydukes treats he’d gotten her, scowling at the book as it was passed around the group and admired. “Malfoy’s gifts shouldn’t count,” he said, snapping the frog’s head off. “He’s loaded.”
罗恩从他给她买的一大堆 Honeydukes 零食中抓起一只巧克力青蛙，当这本书在人群中传递和欣赏时，他皱着眉头看着这本书。“马尔福的礼物不该算数，”他说，一边把青蛙的头掰下来。“他装满了。”

“And thoughtful, apparently,” Neville said, goggling at the ruby in the book’s spine. 
“显然，他很体贴，”纳威说，瞪着书脊上的红宝石。

As Pansy accepted the book from Neville, weighing it in her hands, she let out a low, admiring whistle and shook her head. “Your dad will be getting a good shag tonight, Draco.”
当潘西从纳威手中接过书，掂量着它时，她发出了一声低沉的、钦佩的口哨，摇了摇头。“你爸爸今晚会好好抽身的，Draco。”

There was a stunned pause in which several people spluttered into their drinks and Ron audibly choked on his chocolate frog. Then Ginny let out a shriek of laughter, her head falling back and her hands smacking flat on the present table.
一阵震惊的停顿，几个人啪地喝着饮料，罗恩被他的巧克力青蛙呛住了。然后金妮发出一声尖叫的笑声，她的头向后仰，双手平放在现在的桌子上。

“Fucking hell , Pansy,” Draco groaned as more of the Weasleys joined in with Ginny, their delight in Draco’s discomfort outweighing any they felt themselves.
“他妈的见鬼，潘西，”德拉科呻吟着，越来越多的韦斯莱一家加入了金妮的行列，他们对德拉科不适的喜悦超过了他们自己的感受。

“We've got enchanted earplugs down at the shop if you need them, Malfoy,” George jeered, leaning over to clap Draco on the back. 
“如果你需要的话，我们在店里有附魔耳塞，马尔福，”乔治嘲笑道，俯身拍了拍德拉科的背。

‘Would you all shut up ,” Draco growled, pink tinges appearing on his cheekbones as Hermione said, “George, don’t be so crude !” 
“你们都闭嘴吗，”德拉科咆哮着，赫敏说，“乔治，别这么粗鲁！

“Oh, you need to relax , Malfoy,” Ginny said, standing on her tiptoes to peer over everyone. “Ab! Let’s get some shots over here!”
“哦，你得放松一下，马尔福，”金妮说，踮起脚尖看着大家。“阿布！我们来这里拍点照片吧！

A collective groan went around the group and Hermione sighed. “Ginny, this was supposed to be a civilised brunch,” she said, accepting her book back from Bill and holding it tight to her chest.
一阵集体的呻吟声传遍了人群，赫敏叹了口气。“金妮，这本来应该是一顿文明的早午餐，”她说，从比尔手中接过她的书，把它紧紧地抱在胸前。

“Brunches can have tequila,” Ginny insisted, looking around the group for backup that was not coming quickly enough for her liking. “Especially birthday brunches, come on!”
“早午餐可以有龙舌兰酒，”金妮坚持说，一边环顾四周，寻找来得不够快的后援，让她喜欢。“尤其是生日早午餐，来吧！”

“Ginevra, you're someone's mother,” chided Percy. “Be responsible.”
“Ginevra，你是某人的妈妈，”Percy斥责道。“要负责任。”

“Well I'm not the mother of anyone here ,” Ginny snapped as Aberforth sent a large tray of shots soaring over to them from the bar. “And nor are you, Perce, so shut your face and drink up.”
“好吧，我不是这里任何人的母亲，”金妮厉声说，阿不福思从吧台向他们送来了一大盘烈酒。“你也不行，佩尔塞，所以闭上脸喝吧。”

“Hard to do in that particular order,” Percy muttered resentfully as Pansy cried “here here!” and reached out to grab a glass.
“按照那个顺序很难做到，”Percy愤恨地咕哝着，Pansy喊道：“这里，这里！”，伸手拿起杯子。

Hermione fondly surveyed the pub populated by her increasingly inebriated friends, her attention lingering on the table where Harry, Neville, Draco and Ron were having a loud, drunken, but seemingly good-natured argument about Quidditch. 
赫敏深情地打量着酒吧里挤满了她越来越醉的朋友们，她的注意力在桌子上徘徊，哈利、纳威、德拉科和罗恩正在大声地、喝醉了，但似乎是善意地争论着魁地奇。

Sidling up to Ginny, Hermione laid a hand on her back and guided her away from Katie and Parvati with an apologetic smile. “Ginny,” she said quietly, “look, I have my dinner with Lucius in half an hour. If you don’t mind, I’m just going to slip away.”
赫敏侧身走到金妮身边，把手放在她的背上，带着歉意的微笑引导她离开凯蒂和帕瓦蒂。“金妮，”她轻声说，“你看，我半小时后就要和卢修斯一起吃晚饭了。如果你不介意的话，我就溜走了。

“Don’t you want to say goodbye?” Ginny asked, turning towards the room like she was about to holler into it. “I can –”
“你不想说再见吗？”金妮问道，转身朝房间走去，仿佛要对着房间大喊大叫。“我可以——”

“No!” Hermione grabbed her. “No. Er…if Draco knows I’m going then he’ll come with me and…” Hermione’s eyes drifted back over to the table where he was laughing. “He doesn’t get to do this very often.”
“不！”赫敏抓住了她。“不。的。。。如果德拉科知道我要走，那他就会跟我走，然后......”赫敏的眼睛又飘回到他正在笑的桌子上。“他不经常这样做。”

And he didn’t. She knew Draco had primarily remained in the manor to be there for his father but she rather suspected that he liked that it was a ready-made excuse for him to withdraw as well. When she’d seen all the self-disgust and regret he harboured during their interviews, Hermione had thought him a man who wasn't quite ready to face the world.
但他没有。她知道德拉科留在庄园里主要是为了陪他的父亲，但她更怀疑他喜欢这样一个现成的借口，让他也退出。当她看到他在采访中隐藏的所有自我厌恶和遗憾时，赫敏认为他是一个还没有准备好面对世界的人。

But Lucius wasn’t going to be locked up forever. 
但卢修斯不会永远被关起来。

Pretty soon, hopefully, the doors of the manor would be thrown open and Hermione didn’t think it would do Draco, Astoria or Scorpius too much harm to have a few more friendly faces looking in on them when it happened. 
希望很快，庄园的门就会被打开，赫敏认为当事情发生时，让一些更友好的面孔看着他们不会对德拉科、阿斯托利亚或斯科皮造成太大的伤害。

Following Hermione’s gaze, Ginny wrapped an arm around her waist and planted a wet kiss on her cheek. “You really are his mother,” she teased. 
顺着赫敏的目光，金妮用一只胳膊搂住她的腰，在她的脸颊上湿漉漉的吻。“你真的是他的妈妈，”她调侃道。

“Oh, shut up –” Hermione squirmed, trying to extract herself from Ginny who just held her tighter, pressing their hips together and laughing aloud. 
“哦，闭嘴——”赫敏扭动着身体，试图把自己从金妮身上抽离出来，金妮只是把她抱得更紧了，把他们的臀部压在一起，大声地笑着。

“I’m kidding ,” she said, her laughter dying down and ending with a high-pitched hiccup. “I’m kidding. We’ll look after him, I promise.”
“我在开玩笑，”她说，她的笑声逐渐平息，以一个尖锐的打嗝结束。“我在开玩笑。我们会照顾他的，我保证。

“Thank you.” Hermione kissed Ginny on the cheek and looked towards her small mound of presents in the corner. “Would you –”
“谢谢你。”赫敏亲吻了金妮的脸颊，看向角落里她那一小堆礼物。“你会——”

“We’ll make sure they get to your flat. I take it you’ve got –” Ginny leaned forward to look down and got the answer she was looking for when she saw Lucius’ gift still clutched tightly in Hermione’s right hand. She hadn’t put it down for the entire day. “It’s a good gift,” Ginny added softly, almost wonderingly, as she continued to stare at it. 
“我们会确保他们到达你的公寓。我认为你有——“金妮向前倾身低头，当她看到卢修斯的礼物仍然紧紧地攥在赫敏的右手里时，她得到了她正在寻找的答案。她一整天都没放下。“这是个不错的礼物，”金妮轻声补充道，几乎是疑惑地补充道，同时她继续盯着它看。

“Thank you for organising all of this.”
“感谢你们组织这一切。”

Ginny blinked, slowly dragging her eyes from the book to Hermione’s grateful face. “Of course," she said, shrugging a shoulder modestly. “Just remember what I said – my birthday. Push Harry towards something fun . I’m thinking a day at one of those Muggle places with the rollycoasters or whatever they’re called.”
金妮眨了眨眼，慢慢地将目光从书上移到赫敏感激的脸上。“当然，”她说，谦虚地耸了耸肩。“记住我说的话——我的生日。推动哈利走向有趣的事情。我在想在那些麻瓜地方呆一天，那里有 rollycoasters 或者他们叫什么东西。

Hermione could not see Harry being easily pushed towards that, especially if George would be joining them, but she said “I’ll try” anyway, receiving a firm nod from Ginny which distinctly said “you’d better.” Standing side-by-side, they looked out across the pub together for a moment, arms hooked around one another’s waists.
赫敏看不出哈利会被轻易地推向那个方向，特别是如果乔治会加入他们的话，但她还是说“我会努力的”，金妮坚定地点头，明确地说“你最好”。他们并排站着，一起望着酒吧的另一边，手臂搂着彼此的腰。

“It’s a shame you won’t be here to help when Ron inevitably tries to march up to Hogwarts to prostrate himself at Hannah’s feet.” Ginny dropped her head onto Hermione’s shoulder, her eyes fixed on her brother who had just leaped to his feet to demonstrate a recent save made by the Chudley Cannons’ keeper. “I think it’s going to take all of us.”
“很遗憾，当罗恩不可避免地试图走到霍格沃茨，匍匐在汉娜的脚下时，你不会在这里帮忙。”金妮把头靠在赫敏的肩膀上，眼睛盯着她的哥哥，他刚刚跳起来演示查德利大炮队的守门员最近做出的扑救。“我认为这需要我们所有人的努力。”

When Hermione quietly pushed her way into Lucius’ study just a few minutes before 7pm, she found him sitting on his sofa with his head bent, murmuring to himself. Frowning, she crept across the room and leaned over the sofa, discovering that he had Scorpius curled up into his chest and a book balanced in his lap. 
当赫敏在晚上 7 点前几分钟悄悄地推门进入卢修斯的书房时，她发现他坐在沙发上，低着头，喃喃自语。她皱着眉头，蹑手蹑脚地穿过房间，靠在沙发上，发现他把斯科皮蜷缩在胸前，腿上放着一本书。

When Hermione’s shadow appeared on the pages of the book, both Lucius and Scorpius glanced up at her, a pleased smile spreading across the former’s face while the latter merely blinked at her, his eyes heavy and tired.
当赫敏的影子出现在书页上时，卢修斯和斯科皮都抬头看了她一眼，前者的脸上露出满意的笑容，而后者只是朝她眨了眨眼，眼神沉重而疲惫。

“Hermione,” Lucius greeted, keeping his voice low and peaceful so as not to disturb Scorpius. 
“赫敏，”卢修斯打招呼，压低声音，尽量平和，以免打扰斯科皮。

Hermione pressed a lingering kiss to Lucius’ cheek before moving around to the front of the sofa to take a seat alongside him. As she lowered herself onto the seat, Scorpius shyly buried his face into Lucius, clutching his toy lion tightly to his chest. 
赫敏在卢修斯的脸颊上亲了一下，然后走到沙发前面，在他身边坐下。当她把自己放到座位上时，斯科皮害羞地把脸埋进卢修斯的脸里，把他的玩具狮子紧紧地攥在胸前。

“How was the party?” Lucius asked, comfortingly tightening the arm curled around Scorpius.
“派对怎么样？”卢修斯问道，安慰地收紧了蜷缩在斯科皮身上的手臂。

“Increasingly drunken,” Hermione said on a sigh. “But wonderful.”
“越来越醉了，”赫敏叹了口气说。“但太棒了。”

“Astoria was growing tired, so I offered to take Scorpius off her hands until his bedtime. I had rather thought that Draco might come back with you to do it himself,” Lucius said, glancing around like his son might choose that moment to waltz through the door. 
“阿斯托利亚越来越累了，所以我提议把斯科皮从她的手上拿走，直到他睡觉。我宁愿想德拉科可能会和你一起回来亲自做这件事，“卢修斯说，环顾四周，仿佛他的儿子可能会选择那个时刻跳华尔兹进门。

“I sort of…snuck off without him,” Hermione admitted, feeling a stab of guilt when she saw concern flash across Lucius’ face. “He was having a nice time! I thought he should stay. Make some friends.”
“我有点......没有他就偷偷溜走了，“赫敏承认道，当她看到卢修斯脸上闪过担忧时，她感到一阵内疚。“他玩得很开心！我认为他应该留下来。交一些朋友。

“While I’m sure that’s very kind of you,” Lucius said, closing Scorpius’ book and placing it on the sofa between them, “it does mean we have an additional guest for your birthday dinner.”
“虽然我确定你很好，”卢修斯说，合上斯科皮的书，把它放在他们之间的沙发上，“这确实意味着我们的生日晚宴多了一位客人。

Hermione smiled warmly at Scorpius, who lifted his face away from Lucius’ chest to yawn, his deep inhale and heavy exhale ruffling the wispy threads that made up his lion’s mane. “I think we can wait until after his bedtime. Based on that yawn, I’d say it’s not far away at all”
赫敏对斯科皮温暖地笑了笑，斯科皮把脸从卢修斯的胸前抬起，打了个哈欠，他深吸一口气和沉重的呼气搅乱了构成他狮子鬃毛的细丝。“我想我们可以等到他睡觉后再说。根据那个哈欠，我想说它一点也不远。

Eyes returning to Lucius, Hermione's smile faded and she tilted her head. "Your hair is tied back," she observed, finally honing in on what looked different about him. 
目光回到卢修斯身上，赫敏的笑容消失了，她歪了歪头。“你的头发扎在后面，”她观察着，终于磨练出他看起来有什么不同。

"My grandson has become exceptionally grabby ," Lucius said, his lips turning down disapprovingly. "And his hands are astonishingly sticky."
“我的孙子变得特别好吃了，”卢修斯说，他的嘴唇不赞同地往下转。“而且他的手粘得惊人。”

“Minny!” It was the only way Scorpius knew how to say her name and Hermione responded to it immediately, looking down to find him holding out his lion and shaking it. 
“明尼！”这是斯科皮知道如何说出她的名字的唯一方式，赫敏立即回应了它，低头发现他伸出他的狮子摇晃着它。

Hermione carefully accepted the lion in both hands with a murmured “thank you” and set it on top of the book with an air of ceremony. She knew what Scorpius wanted her to do – he had her do it two or three times a week at this point. 
赫敏小心翼翼地双手接过狮子，低声说了声“谢谢”，然后带着礼仪的气氛把它放在书上。她知道斯科皮希望她做什么——此时他让她每周做两到三次。

Drawing out her wand, she pressed the tip of it into the lion’s back and then slowly drew it up into the air. The lion rose like a marionette and Scorpius giggled delightedly when Hermione made it move towards him, leaping from the book with its floppy paws. 
她抽出魔杖，将魔杖的尖端压在狮子的背上，然后慢慢地将它拉到空中。狮子像提线木偶一样升起，当赫敏向他走来时，斯科皮高兴地咯咯笑了起来，它用松软的爪子从书上跳了下来。

“Thank you for my present, by the way,” Hermione murmured, her eyes rising to Lucius’ face as she twirled her wand to make the lion do a forward roll. “I can’t even begin to tell you how much I love it.”
“顺便说一句，谢谢你的礼物，”赫敏喃喃自语，她的眼睛抬起头看着卢修斯的脸，同时她转动着魔杖，让狮子向前翻滚。“我什至无法告诉你我有多喜欢它。”

“So you opened it,” Lucius said, sounding pleased. “In front of everyone?”
“所以你打开了它，”卢修斯说，听起来很高兴。“当着所有人的面？”

“Yes.” The lion shook its mane, prompting Scorpius to delightedly kick his legs. “Everyone else admired it, too,” she said, recalling what Draco had said about his father’s desire to show off. “In fact, Pansy Parkinson thought it was good enough to predict that you’d be getting a good –” Her eyes darted to the thoroughly distracted Scorpius. “S-h-a-g tonight.”
“是的。”狮子摇晃着它的鬃毛，促使斯科皮高兴地踢他的腿。“其他人也都很欣赏它，”她说，回忆起德拉科说过他父亲想要炫耀的话。“事实上，潘西·帕金森认为这足以预测你会得到一个好——”她的眼睛瞥向彻底分心的斯科皮。“今晚 S-h-a-g。”

Lucius coughed, struggling to keep ahold of Scorpius who was wriggling over his lap in an attempt to get closer to his dancing lion. “I always told Draco she was atrociously uncouth.” He glanced up at Hermione from under his brow, barely wincing as one of Scorpius' feet connected with his stomach. “Was she right?”
卢修斯咳嗽了一声，挣扎着抓住斯科皮，斯科皮在他的腿上扭动着，试图靠近他的舞狮。“我总是告诉德拉科她粗鲁得要命。”他从额头下抬头瞥了赫敏一眼，当斯科皮的一只脚碰到他的肚子时，他几乎没有皱起眉头。“她说得对吗？”

Hermione snorted. “Let’s just say, it's the closest I've ever gotten to thinking there might be something to Divination."
赫敏哼了一声。“这么说吧，这是我最接近于认为可能与《占卜》有关的东西。”

Scorpius finally managed to break out of Lucius' hold and threw himself on his lion with a roar, pinning it to the cushion. Dropping back with a heavy sigh, Lucius rested his elbow on the arm of the sofa and pressed a hand over his eyes. "It's been some time since I last did this – I'm exhausted."
斯科皮终于挣脱了卢修斯的束缚，咆哮着扑向他的狮子，将它固定在垫子上。卢修斯重重地叹了口气，将胳膊肘靠在沙发的扶手上，用一只手捂住了眼睛。“距离我上次这样做已经有一段时间了——我筋疲力尽。”

Laughing, Hermione pocketed her wand and lifted Scorpius into her arms. Back in possession of his toy, he was happy to curl up into her, another yawn taking hold of him as she smoothed his hair with a gentle hand.
赫敏笑着把魔杖装进口袋，把斯科皮抱进怀里。回到他的玩具里，他很高兴地蜷缩在她身上，当她用温柔的手抚平他的头发时，他又打了个哈欠。

“Maybe we’ll be putting you to bed before Scorpius,” she teased, prompting Lucius to lower his hand from his eyes just to glower at her. “You’ve never looked more like a grandfather, Lucius.”
“也许我们会在斯科皮之前让你上床睡觉，”她调侃道，促使卢修斯把手从他的眼睛上放下来，只是为了瞪她一眼。“你从来没有像个爷爷，Lucius。”

“If you are trying to provoke me into proving how un -grandfatherly I can be later,” he said sternly, “it’s working.”
“如果你是想激怒我，让我证明我以后可以多么不爷爷，”他严肃地说，“这很管用。

Hermione momentarily folded her lips between her teeth in an attempt to contain her smile. “Happy birthday to me, then.”
赫敏暂时将嘴唇夹在牙齿之间，试图抑制住她的笑容。“那么，祝我生日快乐。”

Chapter 42
章节 42Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾February 20th 2008
2008 年 2 月 20 日

 

“How does Shacklebolt take his tea?”
“沙克尔是怎么喝茶的？”

Hermione glanced up from the book she was reading to find Lucius tidying his desk in preparation for Letty’s imminent tea and biscuits delivery.
赫敏从她正在阅读的书中抬起头来，发现卢修斯正在整理他的桌子，为莱蒂即将到来的茶和饼干送货做准备。

“Lucius, he won’t be here for another –” Checking her watch, Hermione tipped her head from side to side as she counted. “Maybe ten minutes or so?”
“卢修斯，他不会再来这里了——”赫敏看了看手表，一边数着一边把头左右歪着。“大概十分钟左右吧？”

“Perhaps you misheard me,” Lucius said, straightening up, his eyebrows raised. “I asked how he takes his tea, not when he will be here.”
“也许你听错了，”卢修斯说，直起身来，扬起了眉毛。“我问他是怎么喝茶的，而不是他什么时候来的。”

Rolling her eyes, Hermione closed her book with a heavy thump and pushed herself up from her reclined position on his study sofa. He had been waspish all morning. “Why do you want to know?”
赫敏翻了个白眼，重重地合上了书，从书桌上的斜倚位置站了起来。他整个上午都在被黄蜂哼叨。“你为什么想知道？”

Lucius lifted a shoulder and swiped away a spot of dust on the desk that Hermione wasn’t sure was actually there. “It gives the right impression.”
卢修斯抬起肩膀，扫掉桌子上赫敏不确定是否真的存在的灰尘。“它给人留下了正确的印象。”

As she approached him, Hermione recalled a similar discussion she had once had with Kingsley himself and scoffed, shaking her head. “You know, I think you and he could get on quite well.” She stopped at the edge of the desk and uselessly shuffled together some of his letters. “He takes it with five sugars.”
当她走近他时，赫敏想起了她曾经和金斯莱本人有过的类似讨论，她嘲笑着摇了摇头。“你知道的，我觉得你和他可以相处得很好。”她停在桌子的边缘，无用地把他的一些信拼凑在一起。“他用五颗糖吃。”

“ Five? ” Lucius’ disbelieving, faintly disgusted, tone drew Hermione’s eyes to him and she simply nodded. “Does it even all dissolve?”
“五？”卢修斯不相信，略带厌恶的语气把赫敏的目光吸引到他身上，她只是点了点头。“它甚至都溶解了吗？”

Shrugging, a smile playing about her lips, Hermione lowered her tone with a conspiratorial air. “I saw him take six once during a somewhat…fraught discussion.”
赫敏耸耸肩，嘴角挂着笑容，用阴谋论的气息压低了语气。“我看到他在某种程度上服用了六次......令人担忧的讨论。

Eyebrows fractionally twitching upwards, Lucius searched her. “What were you discussing?”
眉毛微微向上抽搐，卢修斯打量着她。“你们在讨论什么？”

“You. Obviously.”
“你。显然。

At that, a satisfied smirk passed over his face – the closest thing to a smile that she’d seen from him all day. “I’ll prepare it with five and leave the dish out. Just in case, you know.”
听到这话，他的脸上掠过一丝满意的笑容——这是她一整天从他身上看到的最接近的笑容。“我会准备五个，把菜放在外面。以防万一，你知道的。

“I’m hoping this won’t be a fraught discussion, Lucius,” Hermione said, sighing as she drew out her wand to conjure an additional chair for Kingsley. One that Lucius hadn’t shortened. “It should all be fairly straightforward.”
“我希望这不会是一场令人担忧的讨论，卢修斯，”赫敏说，一边叹了口气，一边抽出魔杖，为金斯莱多了一把椅子。卢修斯没有缩短。“一切都应该相当简单。”

A loud crack followed by a series of tremulous tinkles signalled the arrival of Letty and a heavily-laden tea tray. With a click of her fingers she sent it soaring onto the desk, Lucius’ preparatory tidying saving most of his belongings from being pushed onto the floor.
一声响亮的噼啪声，紧接着是一连串颤抖的叮当声，标志着莱蒂和一个沉甸甸的茶盘的到来。她咔嚓一声，将它高高地放在桌子上，卢修斯准备整理，避免了他大部分物品被推到地板上。

“Thank you very much, Letty,” Hermione said, surveying the tray with her hands clasped, delighted to see a small pot of honey. “Oh, and you made shortbread!”
“非常感谢你，莱蒂，”赫敏说，双手紧握着打量着托盘，很高兴看到一小罐蜂蜜。“哦，你做了酥饼！”

Letty beamed at Hermione, reaching up on her tiptoes to push the plate of biscuits into a more central position on the tray. “Thank you, Letty,” Lucius murmured distractedly, picking up a cup to ensure the chip he’d spied was just a figment of his imagination. “When he arrives just bring him straight up, will you? No need for the tour.” 
莱蒂对赫敏笑了笑，踮起脚尖把饼干盘推到托盘上更中央的位置。“谢谢你，莱蒂，”卢修斯心不在焉地喃喃自语，拿起一个杯子，确保他窥探到的芯片只是他想象中的虚构。“等他到了，就把他直接带上来，好吗？不需要参观。

Letty turned the plate of shortbread to ensure it caught the light just right and curtseyed before disappearing with a crack . Hermione eyed Lucius as he fruitlessly adjusted the tea cups and pot, his mouth tight at the corners.
莱蒂转动了一盘酥饼，确保它恰到好处地捕捉到光线，并屈膝行礼，然后啪啪一声消失了。赫敏盯着卢修斯，他徒劳地调整着茶杯和茶壶，嘴角紧闭着。

“Just…be respectful, Lucius,” Hermione urged him, continuing their discussion of Kingsley. “And it should be straightforward.”
“只是......尊重点，卢修斯，“赫敏催促他，继续他们谈论金斯莱。“而且应该很简单。”

Rubbing the side of his fingers along his forehead, Lucius placed a hand on his hip and raised his head to look at her. “Hermione, I have a healthy amount of respect for the man,” he said, adding in a lower tone, “As a spy, at the very least. He certainly had me fooled.”
卢修斯用手指在额头上摩擦，将一只手放在他的臀部上，抬起头看着她。“赫敏，我对这个人有相当的尊重，”他低声说，“至少作为一个间谍。他肯定骗了我。

“You don’t like being fooled.”
“你不喜欢被愚弄。”

“No,” was Lucius’ short reply. “But I can hardly hold it against him now, can I?”
“不，”卢修斯简短地回答。“可是我现在几乎无法对付他，对吧？”

“No,” Hermione agreed, meeting his eyes. “You can’t.”
“不，”赫敏同意道，与他的眼睛对上。“你不能。”

He’d had a somewhat unsettled air about him the whole morning and had been so irritable and unwilling to communicate anything about it to her that she’d simply locked herself away in a book. Now, she thought she saw with a little more clarity. He was nervous and, she didn’t doubt, more than a little bit resentful. Everything they’d been doing had been building up to this meeting with Kingsley and, still, he wasn’t entirely sure what to expect from it. Nor was she.
他整个上午都有些不安，而且非常烦躁，不愿意和她说任何事情，以至于她干脆把自己锁在一本书里。现在，她觉得自己看得更清楚了。他很紧张，而且，她并不怀疑，还有一点点怨恨。他们所做的一切都是为了与金斯利的这次会面而进行的，但他仍然不完全确定会有什么结果。她也不是。

Hermione extended her hand across the desk towards him and, after a moment of hesitation, he took it, his eyes locking onto where they were joined. 
赫敏隔着桌子向他伸出手，犹豫了一会儿，他接过了手，眼睛紧紧盯着他们在一起的地方。

“We’ve done everything right,” she told him, linking her fingers through his to squeeze them. “We did what we set out to do. And, besides that, Kingsley is the one who arranged this meeting, not us. Surely that bodes well.”
“我们做对了一切，”她告诉他，同时用手指穿过他的手指挤压它们。“我们做到了我们打算做的事情。而且，除此之外，金斯利是安排这次会议的人，而不是我们。这当然是个好兆头。

A knock at the door prompted Lucius to relinquish her hand and he blinked away whatever thoughts he had as he called, “come in!”. Hermione was just turning when Kingsley entered, tall and imposing in the doorway. Hermione greeted him with a warm smile, hurrying over to the door to shake his hand and pull him inside in one fluid motion. 
敲门声促使卢修斯松开了她的手，他眨了眨眼，打消了他的所有想法，他喊道：“进来！赫敏刚转身，金斯莱就进来了，她高大威严地站在门口。赫敏用温暖的微笑向他打招呼，急忙走到门口和他握手，以一个流畅的动作把他拉了进去。

“Come in, Kingsley, come in. You’re right on time.”
“进来吧，金斯利，进来。你来得正是时候。

Lucius remained behind his desk, his fingers tapping a gentle but uneven pattern on its surface as he watched Hermione usher Kingsley in his direction. 
卢修斯留在书桌后面，他的手指轻敲着桌子表面温柔但不均匀的图案，看着赫敏引导金斯莱朝着他的方向走去。

Kingsley didn’t take in his surroundings as he crossed the room. Didn’t venture into small talk by admiring the furnishings, or commenting on how nice it was to have a fire on such a cold afternoon. Instead, his eyes travelled straight from Hermione to Lucius and, when he reached the other side of Lucius’ desk, he confidently extended his hand across it. 
金斯利穿过房间时没有注意周围的环境。他没有冒险通过欣赏家具来闲聊，也没有评论在这样一个寒冷的下午生火有多好。相反，他的目光从赫敏直直地移向卢修斯，当他走到卢修斯桌子的另一边时，他自信地伸出手。

“Lucius,” he said in greeting.
“卢修斯，”他打招呼说。

Lucius’ throat jumped slightly, his fingers flexing, before he reached out and took Kingsley’s hand in his own to give it a firm, even shake. “Minister.”
卢修斯的喉咙微微跳动，他的手指弯曲着，然后他伸出手来握住金斯莱的手，用力地、均匀地摇晃着。“部长。”

There was no invitation to call him Kingsley, or even to drop his title, but Kingsley did offer Lucius a warm, genuine smile from which Hermione could just about allow herself to glean some hope. 
没有人邀请他叫金斯莱，甚至没有放弃他的头衔，但金斯利确实给了卢修斯一个温暖、真诚的微笑，赫敏几乎可以让自己从中收获一些希望。

“Please, sit down,” Lucius said, extending his hand to the fine chair that Hermione had conjured. 
“请坐，”卢修斯说，把手伸向赫敏变出的那把漂亮的椅子。

Hermione lowered herself into her own seat as Kingsley arranged his robes to sit himself beside her, saying, “Thank you for agreeing to this meeting, both of you. Though I’m sure you weren’t entirely surprised when I reached out.”
赫敏把自己放低到自己的座位上，金斯莱整理好他的长袍，自己坐在她身边，说：“谢谢你们同意这次见面，你们俩。不过我敢肯定，当我伸出援手时，你并不完全感到惊讶。

“No,” Hermione said promptly, her eyes following Lucius as he carefully pulled his chair out, last to be seated. “We’ve finished our work.”
“不，”赫敏立即说，她的眼睛跟着卢修斯小心翼翼地把椅子拉了出来，最后一个坐下。“我们已经完成了我们的工作。”

“You have indeed,” Kingsley said, his voice straining slightly as he crossed one leg over the other. “Very diligently, I might add. The members of the Wizengamot are pleased, even with those little…” Kingsley winced. “ Issues that we still have to sort out with their hereditary seats. Your suggestions are being taken on board but, er, I think discussions over the finer details might drag on a bit.”
“你确实有，”金斯莱说，他把一条腿交叉在另一条腿上，声音略微紧张。“我得补充一句，非常勤奋。威森加摩的成员们很高兴，即使有那些小小的......”金斯利皱起了眉头。“我们仍然需要通过他们的世袭席位来解决这些问题。你的建议正在被采纳，但，呃，我认为关于更细节的讨论可能会拖延一点。

“They’re being resistant?” Hermione asked, her eyes narrowing.
“他们在抵抗吗？”赫敏眯起眼睛问道。

“They’re being cautious,” Kingsley corrected, though with an understanding smile. “But I am dealing with that personally; you need not concern yourself.”
“他们很谨慎，”金斯利纠正道，尽管带着理解的微笑。“但我个人正在处理这个问题;你不用担心自己。

“We did expect as much, Hermione,” Lucius said. A spoon hovering over a cup, he looked at Kingsley and added, “Five sugars?” If Hermione didn’t know any better, she would have called his expression perfectly innocent but she did know better and so the innocence was more artful than sincere. 
“我们确实期待了那么多，赫敏，”卢修斯说。勺子悬停在杯子上，他看着金斯利，补充道：“五颗糖？如果赫敏不知道更多，她会说他的表情完全无辜，但她确实知道得更多，所以这种无辜更多的是巧妙而不是真诚。

A knowing smile on his face, Kingsley merely nodded and accepted the cup graciously when Lucius passed it over the table towards him. “Much appreciated, Lucius. Meant in more ways than one, of course – I know you’ve both been busy for some time with this. I hope the Wizengamot’s wrangling over minor details isn’t stopping you from enjoying a sense of…achievement or completion.”
金斯利脸上露出会心的笑容，只是点了点头，当卢修斯将杯子从桌子上递给他时，他优雅地接过了杯子。“非常感谢，卢修斯。当然，这意味着不止一种——我知道你们俩都忙了一段时间。我希望威森加摩家族对小细节的争吵不会阻止你享受一种......成就或完成。

“I am rather familiar with the Wizengamot’s instinct for self-preservation,” Lucius said, pouring Hermione’s tea and sliding it across the table to her. “So, no.”
“我对威森加摩的自我保护本能相当熟悉，”卢修斯说，给赫敏倒茶，把它滑过桌子递给她。“所以，没有。”

Kingsley hummed and busied himself with selecting a biscuit. “Some of them were rather surprised to see you backing a few of Hermione’s suggestions,” he said, his eyes searching the biscuit plate, Hermione knew, for the biggest one. “They pointed out you were jeopardising your own opportunity to take a seat.”
金斯利哼着歌，忙着挑选一块饼干。“他们中的一些人看到你支持赫敏的一些建议，感到相当惊讶，”他说，他的眼睛在饼干盘上寻找，赫敏知道，寻找最大的一个。“他们指出你正在危及自己获得座位的机会。”

Lucius’ eyes flicked up in a half-roll as he set the teapot down and pulled his own cup towards himself. “I’m sure a great many things about me would surprise them these days,” he said. Then, with an opaque smile, he added, “But, the way I see it, a future Minister might see fit to award me with a Wizengamot seat on the basis of my own merits.” Lucius' eyes drifted to Hermione and she flared her nostrils at him in an attempt to tell him to shut up. “Provided I ever have the opportunity to exhibit them again.”
卢修斯眨了眨眼睛，半翻了个白眼，放下茶壶，把自己的杯子拉向自己。“我敢肯定，这些天我的很多事情都会让他们感到惊讶，”他说。然后，他带着不透明的笑容补充道，“但是，在我看来，未来的部长可能会根据我自己的优点，认为合适的时候会授予我一个威森加摩的席位。卢修斯的眼睛飘向赫敏，她朝他张大了鼻孔，试图让他闭嘴。“只要我有机会再次展出它们。”

Fortunately, Kingsley was distracted by the act of dipping his biscuit in his tea. “Speaking of which, I must say, Lucius –” He paused to take a bite and give an appreciative hum at the buttery flavour. “I didn’t expect you to see this through. Not that I mean to be rude.”
幸运的是，金斯利被将饼干浸入茶中的行为分散了注意力。“说到这个，我必须说，卢修斯——”他停下来咬了一口，对着黄油的味道赞赏地哼了一声。“我没想到你会把这件事搞定。我不是故意粗鲁的。

“Is that so?” Lucius’ smile was polite but tight.
“是这样吗？”卢修斯的笑容很有礼貌，但很紧绷。

“Well, our last agreement ended up rather dead in the water, didn’t it? You’re not a man to suffer being fooled – not that it was a deliberate act, I want that to be clear.” Lucius nodded his understanding, his shoulders lowering imperceptibly. “You didn’t have much reason to trust me when I said I would reward you for your pains and yet here we are.”
“嗯，我们上次的协议最后还是泡汤了，不是吗？你不是一个可以被愚弄的人——不是说这是故意的行为，我想说清楚这一点。卢修斯点点头表示理解，他的肩膀难以察觉地低下了。“当我说我会报答你的痛苦时，你没有太多理由相信我，但我们却在这里。”

“I didn’t trust you,” Lucius said shortly. “Not that I mean to be rude .” His eyes darted to Hermione, his expression softening. “But I had reasons other than myself to see this through.”
“我不信任你，”卢修斯很快说。“我不是故意粗鲁。”他的眼睛瞪向赫敏，他的表情变得柔和了。“但除了我自己之外，我还有其他理由要把这件事搞定。”

Kingsley’s eyes also travelled to Hermione who, her cheeks pink, tried to cover most of her face by drinking her tea. “I thought so,” Kingsley said, disguising a small smile by taking another bite of biscuit. “And I’ve heard as much.”
金斯莱的目光也转向了赫敏，她的脸颊是粉红色的，试图通过喝茶来遮住她的大部分脸。“我想是的，”金斯利说，又咬了一口饼干，掩饰了一丝微笑。“我听到的也一样。”

If at all possible, Hermione went more pink. When she and Lucius had started working together, it had been a partnership of interest to the wider wizarding world so the announcement in the Prophet had been natural. When the Wizengamot had started actually passing their laws and the nature of what they were doing had become clear, however, people had started to look even closer, many of them with raised eyebrows. Lucius’ motivations, for instance, had been the subject of more than one Daily Prophet column. 
如果可能的话，赫敏会变得更粉红色。当她和卢修斯开始合作时，这是更广泛的魔法世界感兴趣的伙伴关系，所以先知的宣布是很自然的。然而，当威森加摩真正开始通过他们的法律并且他们所做的事情的性质变得清晰时，人们开始更加仔细地观察，其中许多人扬起了眉毛。例如，卢修斯的动机不止一篇《预言家日报》专栏的主题。

The publication of Hermione’s book had rekindled interest by making it apparent that Hermione Granger and Lucius Malfoy’s mysterious ‘acquaintanceship’ went back even farther than most had initially thought and the rumours had started to gather pace. Several anonymous sources leaking their attendance at the event Lucius had arranged for Hermione had not helped matters. 
赫敏的书的出版重新点燃了人们的兴趣，因为它清楚地表明赫敏·格兰杰和卢修斯·马尔福的神秘“熟人”关系比大多数人最初想象的还要久远，谣言已经开始加速。几个匿名消息来源泄露了他们参加卢修斯为赫敏安排的活动，但无济于事。

One in particular had been more than happy to reveal Narcissa’s declarations about her divorce and, suddenly, Hermione’s perennial single status in the aftermath of her relationship with Ron was not treated with pity but suspicion. Had she broken up the Malfoy marriage? Narcissa Malfoy’s unavailability for comment made a lot of people feel like they could guess ‘yes’. 
特别是一个特别高兴地透露了纳西莎关于她离婚的声明，突然之间，赫敏在与罗恩的关系之后常年单身的状态并没有被怜悯而是怀疑。她破坏了马尔福的婚姻吗？纳西莎·马尔福无法发表评论，这让很多人觉得他们可以猜到“是”。

Shortly after the publication of her book, a particularly vicious Witch Weekly column had alleged that the wizarding world’s golden girl was actually a nasty little gold digger and Lucius was undoubtedly only using her to get his freedom back. Romance or Reciprocity? had been the headline and Hermione had actually had to check that Rita Skeeter’s name wasn’t attached to it. 
在她的书出版后不久，《女巫周刊》的一篇特别恶毒的专栏声称，魔法世界的金童玉女实际上是一个令人讨厌的小淘金者，卢修斯无疑只是在利用她来夺回自由。 浪漫还是互惠？ 一直是头条新闻，赫敏实际上不得不检查一下丽塔·斯基特的名字没有附在上面。

The easiest response had been to stop reading the Prophet and Witch Weekly . Though Ginny assured Hermione that it had all died down quite a lot since that initial flurry of articles, Hermione didn’t feel a need to find out for herself.
最简单的反应是停止阅读先知和女巫周刊。虽然金妮向赫敏感到，自从最初的那一连串文章以来，一切都已经平息了很多，但赫敏并不觉得有必要自己去了解。

“People,” Lucius had said, “will say and think what they want regardless of what we tell them.” Hermione had never especially enjoyed explaining herself to gossips anyway. But Kingsley wasn’t really a gossip.
“人们，”卢修斯曾说过，“无论我们告诉他们什么，他们都会说什么，想什么就想什么。无论如何，赫敏从来都不是特别喜欢向八卦解释自己。但金斯利并不是一个真正的八卦。

“Kingsley –” Hermione began, leaning forward in her seat. 
“金斯莱——”赫敏开始说话，在座位上身体前倾。

“It’s really none of my business, Hermione,” Kingsley said, pausing to take a long drink of tea. “You’ve both done as I asked and individual motivations are really inconsequential in the grand scheme of it all. To me, at least – I have what I need.”
“这真的不关我的事，赫敏，”金斯莱说，停下来喝了一大口茶。“你们俩都按照我的要求做了，在这一切的宏伟计划中，个人动机真的是无关紧要的。至少对我来说——我有我需要的东西。

Lucius nodded his agreement with Kingsley and Hermione pursed her lips. They were such an odd pair to be sitting with – she couldn’t quite get comfortable in her seat, not knowing whether she might, at any moment, have to intervene in a disagreement or defend herself from an accusation of naivety.
卢修斯点头同意金斯莱的意见，赫敏抿了抿嘴唇。他们是一对奇怪的搭档——她在座位上不太舒服，不知道她是否随时必须干预分歧或保护自己免受天真的指责。

“But that’s why I’m here,” Kingsley said, his face brightening. “You did see it through and, as a result, I intend to fulfil my side of the deal.”
“但这就是我在这里的原因，”金斯利说，他的脸上露出了光彩。“你确实看透了它，因此，我打算履行我这边的交易。”

At Kingsley’s abrupt declaration, Hermione spluttered into her cup, the hot tea splashing her nose. She looked to Lucius, who had gone quite pale, as he said, “You mean –”
听到金斯莱的突然宣布，赫敏啪啪地倒在了她的杯子里，热茶溅到了她的鼻子上。她看向卢修斯，卢修斯脸色苍白，他说道，“你是说——”

“Your release,” Kingsley said, his conversational tone slightly muffled by his last bite of biscuit. “I’m here to tell you that you will have it. The Wizengamot has agreed.”
“你放开了，”金斯利说，他说话的语气被他最后一口饼干略微压低了。“我在这里告诉你，你会得到它。威森加摩已经同意了。

“What are the terms?” Lucius asked, his voice impressively even. 
“条款是什么？”卢修斯问道，他的声音令人印象深刻。

“House arrest lifted,” Kingsley said with a firm nod. “Magic dampener removed.”
“软禁解除，”金斯利坚定地点头说。“魔术阻尼器已移除。”

Hermione laughed, delighted, but Lucius looked like he didn’t know quite how to behave and Kingsley’s eyes were on him as he said, “You surprised us, Lucius. Am I right in saying we’ve returned the favour?”
赫敏高兴地笑了起来，但卢修斯看起来不太懂得该如何表现，金斯莱的眼睛盯着他说，“卢修斯，你让我们感到惊讶。我说我们回报了这个人情，对吗？

Running a hand over his mouth, Lucius frowned slightly. “I expected I would have to do more convincing. If not with you, with the Wizengamot.”
卢修斯用一只手捂住嘴，微微皱起眉头。“我以为我必须做更多的事情来说服人。如果不和你在一起，就和威森加摩一起。

“I expect you will have plenty of people to convince in the coming months,” Kingsley said, his expression quite serious. “It’s been ten years but people don’t forget. The Wizengamot and I have agreed, however, that you have shown sufficient evidence of a will to change and to participate in the kind of society we’re trying to build. We’re going to let you prove it.” 
“我预计在接下来的几个月里你会有很多人来说服，”金斯利说，他的表情相当严肃。“十年过去了，但人们不会忘记。然而，威森加摩和我都同意，你已经拿出了足够的证据来证明你愿意改变并参与我们正在努力建立的那种社会。我们会让你证明这一点。

Lucius nodded slowly but Hermione could tell he was waiting for something. Some kind of condition, perhaps. 
卢修斯缓缓地点点头，但赫敏看得出来他在等待什么。也许是某种情况。

“There will, of course, be a probationary period,” Kingsley added. “We must take precautions. The Wizengamot were keen for eighteen months, I suggested nine months. So we have compromised and would like to propose a year to you.”
“当然，会有一个试用期，”金斯利补充道。“我们必须采取预防措施。威森加摩热衷于十八个月，我建议九个月。所以我们已经妥协了，想向你提议一年。

At that, Lucius’ eyes narrowed but he kept his tone politely curious when he asked, “And what will happen in this year?”
听到这话，卢修斯眯起了眼睛，但当他问道时，他保持着礼貌的语气，带着好奇，“那今年会发生什么？

“We’ll keep a close eye on you,” Kingsley explained, like he was surprised Lucius would even have to ask. “Send the occasional Auror to pop in – unannounced, naturally – for inspections. You’ll be the first on our list for any raids. And, of course, we’d like to encourage some more publicly-minded action from you to keep our minds at ease.”
“我们会密切关注你的，”金斯莱解释道，就像他很惊讶卢修斯竟然会问这个问题一样。“派偶尔的傲罗来——自然是不事先通知的——来检查。您将是我们任何突袭名单上的第一个。当然，我们想鼓励您采取一些更具公共意识的行动，让我们放心。

Lucius, whose lip had curled more with every word that Kingsley spoke, nodded once slowly. “I see,” he said, his eyes searching Kingsley’s placid expression while his fingers drummed a contemplative pattern on his desk. 
卢修斯的嘴唇随着金斯莱说的每一句话而更加卷曲，他缓缓地点了点头。“我明白了，”他说，他的眼睛寻找着金斯利平静的表情，同时他的手指在他的桌子上敲打着沉思的图案。

So abruptly it made Hermione jump, Lucius pulled open a drawer in his desk. He withdrew a thin, rectangular book from the drawer and dropped it on the desk with a thwack , drawing a quill towards himself. Hermione squinted at the book as he flipped it open and, on recognising it, her eyes widened.
突然间，赫敏跳了起来，卢修斯拉开了他书桌上的一个抽屉。他从抽屉里拿出一本薄薄的长方形书，砰的一声把它扔在桌子上，抽出一支羽毛笔朝自己走来。赫敏眯着眼睛看着那本书，他翻开了它，一认出它，她睁大了眼睛。

“Lucius –” she started, glancing anxiously at Kingsley, who merely looked on with mild-mannered interest. Money. He was honestly going to try money with Kingsley . Oh, I could kill him! Hermione thought furiously.
“卢修斯——”她开始说，焦急地瞥了一眼金斯莱，而金斯利只是以温和的兴趣看着。钱。老实说，他打算和金斯利一起试试钱。 哦，我可以杀了他！ 赫敏愤怒地想着。

“We have done things your way for quite a while, Hermione,” Lucius said calmly, inking his quill. “And now we will try mine.”
“我们已经按照你的方式做了很长一段时间了，赫敏，”卢修斯平静地说，用他的羽毛笔涂上墨水。“现在我们试试我的。”

Clearing his throat, he contemplated the cheque book with pursed lips and then scribbled a number onto it before signing his signature with a flourish. Depositing his quill on the desk, Lucius neatly ripped the cheque from its book and slid it across the table, meeting Kingsley’s eyes as he did so. “Do tell me if I’ve missed the mark here, Minister. Hard thing to put a price on.”
清清嗓子，他抿着嘴唇凝视着支票簿，然后在上面潦草地写了一个数字，然后华丽地签了字。卢修斯把羽毛笔放在桌子上，利落地从书上撕下支票，滑过桌子，与金斯莱的眼睛对上。“请告诉我，我是不是在这里错过了，部长。很难定价。

Hermione gaped as Kingsley leaned forward and picked up the cheque without hesitation. For a fraction of a second, she thought she saw his mask slip, his eyebrows twitching upwards. Within the space of a blink, his face was unreadable again. 
赫敏目瞪口呆，金斯莱身体前倾，毫不犹豫地捡起了支票。有那么一瞬间，她以为自己看到了他的面具滑落，他的眉毛向上抽搐。眨眼间，他的脸色又变得难以捉摸。

“This is…” Kingsley’s eyes rose above the cheque to meet Lucius’ even stare. “Generous.”
“这是......”金斯莱的眼睛从支票上抬起，与卢修斯平和的目光相遇。“慷慨。”

A slight incline of Lucius’ head spoke to his agreement with Kingsley’s assessment. “Is it generous enough for a looser leash?” he asked, drawing, as far as Hermione was concerned, arse-clenchingly close to sarcasm for a man who had just bribed a politician.
卢修斯微微歪着头，表明他同意金斯莱的评估。“它够慷慨地放一条更松散的皮带吗？”他问道，对赫敏来说，他紧握着屁股，几乎是在讽刺一个刚刚贿赂了一位政客的男人。

Eyeing the number again, Kingsley tipped his head consideringly. “Yes,” he said slowly. “I am willing to say we have an understanding.” Hermione spied a quiver at the corner of Lucius’ mouth and her disbelieving eyes travelled once again to Kingsley, who was quite serious as he added, “As long as you understand that this generosity will not stop us from restoring you to your current state if you are found to be in contravention of our laws again.”
金斯利再次盯着这个数字，若有所思地歪了歪头。“是的，”他缓缓地说。“我愿意说我们达成了谅解。”赫敏在卢修斯的嘴角窥探了一个颤抖，她难以置信的眼神再次看向金斯莱，金斯莱相当严肃地补充道，“只要你明白，如果你再次被发现违反我们的法律，这种慷慨不会阻止我们把你恢复到现在的状态。

“Naturally,” Lucius said with a remarkable amount of grace given the circumstances. “I would like it –” He gestured to the cheque. “The majority of it, at least, to go to the Ministry’s fund for Half-blood and Muggleborn students who come into our world in…less-than-ideal circumstances, shall we say. I’m aware that it tends to be neglected and I imagine it’s become even less of a priority lately.” Lucius paused, studying Kingsley. “Unless, of course, you had a rather more specific cause in mind when you were needling me?”
“当然，”考虑到当时的情况，卢修斯带着非凡的优雅说道。“我想要它——”他指了指支票。“至少，其中大部分都捐给了魔法部的基金，这些基金是为了资助那些来到我们这个世界的混血儿和麻瓜出身的学生......不太理想的情况，容我们说。我知道它往往被忽视，我想它最近变得更不重要了。卢修斯停顿了一下，打量着金斯利。“当然，除非你在给我针刺的时候，心里想着一个更具体的原因？”

A shadow of a smile passed over Kingsley’s face. Then, apparently oblivious to Hermione’s gaping mouth, he neatly folded the cheque in half and slipped it into his robes. “An admirable cause – the Wizengamot will be delighted. They were reluctant to begin putting their own funds towards it but we’re growing close to that becoming necessary.”
金斯莱的脸上掠过一丝微笑。然后，他显然没有注意到赫敏张大的嘴巴，他整齐地把支票对折，塞进了他的袍子里。“一个令人钦佩的事业——威森加摩会很高兴。他们不愿意开始将自己的资金投入其中，但我们正在逐渐接近成为必要。

Hermione sat forward to speak but a very sharp look from Lucius made her freeze. She could practically hear him asking her to, please, save her righteous homily for literally any other time. Perhaps sensing Hermione’s discomfort, Kingsley addressed her with an indulgent smile. 
赫敏坐上前准备说话，但卢修斯非常锐利的眼神让她僵住了。她几乎可以听到他要求她，拜托，把她正义的讲道留到任何其他时间。也许是感觉到赫敏的不安，金斯莱对她露出一个纵容的微笑。

“Isn’t it good, Hermione,” he asked, “that such an important fund will finally get a much-needed boost? Lucius is right – what with years of rebuilding efforts at the castle soaking up Ministry attention and money, it has been neglected for far too long.”
“赫敏，”他问道，“这么重要的基金终于得到了急需的推动，这不是很好吗？卢修斯是对的——多年来城堡的重建工作消耗了魔法部的关注和金钱，它已经被忽视了太久了。

Hermione nodded several times before the words came. “Y-yes. Yes, it’s wonderful. Of course, Kingsley.” 
赫敏点了好几次头，才说出话来。“是的。是的，这太棒了。当然，金斯利。

“Would you like the fund to bear your name going forward, Lucius?” Kingsley asked in a way that was almost teasing. “I know you’ve been fond of placing such conditions on your donations in the past.”
“卢修斯，你希望这个基金以后以后以你的名字命名吗？”金斯莱以一种近乎戏弄的方式问道。“我知道你过去一直喜欢在你的捐款上设置这样的条件。”

“If you’re going to put anyone’s name on it, make it hers,” Lucius said, jerking his head in Hermione’s direction. 
“如果你要把任何人的名字写在上面，就把它写成她的名字，”卢修斯说，猛地把头转向赫敏的方向。

“Please don’t,” she said quickly, her hands landing flat on the desk to emphasise her point. “It’s fine as it is.”
“请不要，”她迅速地说，双手平放在桌子上以强调她的观点。“就这样吧。”

Chuckling, Kingsley nodded. “All that remains, then, is to arrange a date for the removal of your Magic Dampener.” His eyes travelled down Lucius’ person, as though he might be able to see it through the surface of the desk. “I take it you’d like that to be sooner rather than later?”
金斯利咯咯地笑着点点头。“那么，剩下的就是安排一个移除你的魔法阻尼器的日期。”他的眼睛顺着卢修斯的身体扫视，仿佛他能透过桌子的表面看到它。“我想你希望那件事早点而不是晚点？”

“I’d like it to be ‘now’ ,” Lucius suggested dryly. “But I suppose that would be asking for the impossible, hm?” 
“我希望是'现在'，”卢修斯干巴巴地建议道。“但我想那会要求不可能的事情，嗯？”

Kingsley nodded gravely. “There are processes, Lucius. Paperwork. You know this. I’ll set it all in motion on my return to the Ministry. You’ll receive an owl with a date and a time within the next couple of weeks or so.”
金斯莱严肃地点点头。“有流程，Lucius。文书工作。你知道的。我会在我回到魔法部后把这一切付诸实施。在接下来的几周左右，你会收到一只带有日期和时间的猫头鹰。

“How long do you think it’ll be, Kingsley?” Hermione asked, her eyes darting to Lucius. “For them to remove the Magic Dampener?”
“你觉得这要多久呢，金斯莱？”赫敏问道，她的眼睛瞪向卢修斯。“让他们去掉魔法阻尼器？”

“Oh, a couple of months. Four at most.” Perhaps spying the corners of Lucius’ mouth tightening, Kingsley cast him an admonishing look. “You’ve waited this long, Lucius. What’s a couple more months for a sentence effectively halved?”
“哦，几个月。最多四个。也许是窥探到卢修斯紧绷的嘴角，金斯利向他投来一个警告的眼神。“你等了这么久了，Lucius。实际上减半的刑期再多几个月算什么？

“It is, precisely, a ‘couple more months’,” Lucius said sharply, before a glare of warning from Hermione prompted him to reluctantly add, “Minister.” 
“准确地说，就是'再过几个月'，”卢修斯尖锐地说，然后赫敏警告的目光促使他不情愿地补充道，“部长。

Patting his breast pocket where Lucius’ cheque resided, Kingsley said, “You and I both know there’s only so much we can do before the red tape becomes too thick to cut through. In the meantime, I can promise you that I will do all in my power to prevent any delays.”
金斯利拍了拍他胸前的口袋里放着卢修斯的支票，说道，“你和我都知道，在繁文缛节变得太厚而无法突破之前，我们能做的只有这么多。与此同时，我可以向你保证，我将尽我所能防止任何延误。

“That’s fine, Kingsley,” Hermione interjected before Lucius could say anything else, her hands tightly gripping her cup in her lap. They had what they wanted, she told herself. Well, in a couple of months they’d have it and she’d be damned if she was going to let Lucius ruin it for himself because he hated being told no. He’d already risked it all with his stupid bribe. “Thank you.”
“没关系，金斯莱，”赫敏在卢修斯还没来得及说什么之前打断了她，她的手紧紧地握着膝盖上的杯子。他们得到了他们想要的，她告诉自己。好吧，几个月后他们就会得到它，如果她要让卢修斯毁了它，因为他讨厌被拒绝，她就该死了。他已经冒着一切风险用他那愚蠢的贿赂来了。“谢谢你。”

“No need for thanks, Hermione,” Kingsley said, setting his tea on the desk and turning to her properly. If he noticed that she was sitting slightly lower than both he and Lucius, he didn’t comment. “Though, while Lucius’ work is done, I have some news about yours.”
“不用谢，赫敏，”金斯莱说，把茶放在桌子上，然后适当地转向她。如果他注意到她坐得比他和Lucius都低一点，他就不多说了。“不过，虽然卢修斯的工作已经完成，但我有一些关于你的消息。”

Hermione tried not to look at Lucius who, she could feel, was staring intently at the side of her face. “Oh, yes?” she asked, just about managing polite interest. 
赫敏尽量不去看卢修斯，她能感觉到，卢修斯正专注地盯着她的脸侧。“哦，是吗？” 她问道，只是为了管理礼貌的利益。

“Griffiths is retiring as planned,” Kingsley said. “And that Deputy Head of DMLE job will be opening up in September. I realise we’ve discussed it but I am, right now, extending a formal invitation to you to apply for the job.”
“格里菲斯将按计划退休，”金斯利说。“DMLE 副主任的职位将于 9 月开放。我知道我们已经讨论过了，但我现在正式邀请你申请这份工作。

Dropping her gaze to the tea she was clutching in her lap, Hermione watched the steam swirl up towards her. She’d had a lot of time to consider her future – there were, increasingly, very few nights when she didn’t use the period before sleep to map out what she could do with her future. There were, she mused, tea leaves at the bottom of the cup she was holding that some might tell her were guidance enough. If only it were that easy.
赫敏把目光投向她腿上攥着的茶，看着蒸汽向她旋转。她有很多时间来考虑自己的未来——越来越多的夜晚，她不利用睡前的这段时间来规划她能对自己的未来做些什么。她沉思着，她拿着的杯子底部有茶叶，有些人可能会说这已经足够指导了。要是这么简单就好了。

She was, of course, a published author and Catherine had told her in no uncertain terms that, after the success of Sonorus , she could be published again if she so desired. But she had no such desire. Hermione rather felt she had exorcised something with that work and she was happy to leave it behind her. 
当然，她是一位出版过的作家，凯瑟琳毫不含糊地告诉她，在《索诺鲁斯》成功之后，如果她愿意，她可以再次出版。但她没有这样的愿望。赫敏反而觉得她用那件作品驱散了什么东西，她很高兴把它抛在脑后。

Lucius had told her that, if she truly didn’t want to return to the Ministry, he would financially support whatever she wanted to do. “Set up an institution,” he had suggested one evening over dinner. “A charity. Open a shop that sells one type of lemon cake and literally nothing else. Do whatever you bloody want – you can.”
卢修斯告诉她，如果她真的不想回到魔法部，他会在经济上支持她想做的任何事情。“建立一个机构，”他在一天晚上的晚餐时建议道。“一个慈善机构。开一家卖一种柠檬蛋糕的商店，几乎不卖其他任何东西。你想做什么就做什么——你可以。

“Don’t be so glib,” she’d huffed, stabbing a potato with her fork. “You know I can’t just ‘do whatever I want.’ It doesn’t work like that.”
“别这么油嘴滑舌，”她气喘吁吁地用叉子戳了戳一个土豆。“你知道我不能随便'做任何我想做的事'。”事情不是那样的。

“Hermione,” he’d said. “When will you accept that I can make sure that it does ?”
“赫敏，”他说。“你什么时候会接受我能确保它能做到？”

When she’d looked up at him, wide-eyed, he’d explained, “Your options are not ‘Ministry of Magic’ or ‘destitution’.” Taking a drink of wine, he’d shrugged. “If I can’t use my money to make you happy, what’s the point? I mean, really, you’re depriving both of us pleasure by refusing it which is, quite frankly, bordering on puritanical.”
当她睁大眼睛看着他时，他解释说，“你的选择不是'魔法部'或'贫困'。喝了一口酒，他耸了耸肩。“如果我不能用我的钱让你开心，那又有什么意义呢？我的意思是，真的，你拒绝它剥夺了我们俩的快乐，坦率地说，这近乎清教徒式的。

There was a dizzying amount of freedom in Lucius’ offer. And yet. And yet . Hermione’s mind continued to linger on Kingsley’s suggestion that she might one day replace him as Minister for Magic. Lucius’ offer of money could get her a lot of things but only she , Hermione, could get herself in that office. The idea of that appealed – made her hungry to prove herself.
卢修斯的提议中充满了令人眼花缭乱的自由。而。而。赫敏的脑海里继续徘徊在金斯莱的建议上，她有一天可能会取代他成为魔法部长。卢修斯的钱可以让她得到很多东西，但只有她，赫敏，能让自己进入那个办公室。这个想法很吸引人——让她渴望证明自己。

“Thank you, Kingsley,” she finally said, her stomach flipping giddily in anticipation of her next words. “I’ll get my application to you on Monday.” Hermione met Kingsley’s eyes and she saw a gleam of pride in them that made her grin. “I want it.”
“谢谢你，金斯利，”她终于说了，她的肚子晕眩地翻动着，期待着她接下来的话。“我会在周一把我的申请给你。”赫敏与金斯莱的眼睛相遇，她在眼睛里看到了一丝自豪，让她咧嘴一笑。“我想要。”

“Excellent, Hermione,” Kingsley said with a sincerity that only made her grin grow wider. “Truly, I’m delighted to hear it. And with a September start date, you’ll have a chance to enjoy a nice long summer.” His eyes slid to Lucius. “Whatever it may involve.” 
“太好了，赫敏，”金斯莱真诚地说，这只会让她的笑容变得更大。“真的，我很高兴听到这个消息。随着 9 月的开始日期，您将有机会享受一个美好的漫长夏天。他的目光滑向卢修斯。“无论它可能涉及什么。”

Ignoring Hermione’s furious blush, Kingsley cleared his throat and placed his hands on his knees to push himself to his feet. “Now,” he said, looking down at them. “I don’t wish to overstay my welcome and I am exceptionally busy so, if you don’t mind, I’ll thank you for your hospitality and be on my way.”
金斯莱无视赫敏愤怒的脸红，清了清嗓子，双手放在膝盖上，让自己站起来。“现在，”他说，低头看着他们。“我不想逾期逗留，而且我特别忙，所以，如果你不介意的话，我会感谢你的款待，然后上路。”

Hermione and Lucius rose to their feet in tandem, Lucius reaching across the table to shake his hand with a touch more enthusiasm than he had at the start of the meeting. “Would you like me to get Letty to –
赫敏和卢修斯一起站起来，卢修斯伸手越过桌子握手，比会议开始时更加热情。“你要不要我让莱蒂——

“No, Lucius,” Kingsley said with a shake of his head. “I can remember my way, thank you. And if I forget, I passed a very…friendly portrait of a witch just outside your door who told me it would be her pleasure to show me the sights of Malfoy Manor.” He raised his eyebrows and shook Hermione’s hand, adding in an undertone, “Make of that what you will.”
“不，卢修斯，”金斯利摇了摇头说。“我记得我的方式，谢谢你。如果我忘记了，我通过了一个非常......你门外的一位女巫的友好肖像告诉我，她很高兴能带我去看看马尔福庄园的风景。他扬起眉毛，握了握赫敏的手，低调地补充道，“随你便吧。

In a swirl of robes, Kingsley turned on his heel and swept towards the door, Hermione hurrying along at his side to open it for him. He clapped a hand on her shoulder in silent thanks and paused in the doorway to say, “I’ll be in touch,” before he departed, leaving a heavy silence behind him.
在一团长袍的漩涡中，金斯莱转过身来，朝门扫去，赫敏急忙走到他身边为他开门。他用一只手拍了拍她的肩膀，无声地感谢，然后在门口停下来说：“我会联系的，”然后他离开了，身后留下了沉重的沉默。

Hermione closed the door after Kingsley and stood with her hand on the handle for a long moment before she turned to Lucius. He was slouching in his chair, his elbows resting on its arms and his lips pushed out in a half pout that distinctly said ‘let’s get this over with’.
赫敏在金斯莱身后关上了门，手扶着门把手站了很久，然后转向卢修斯。他懒洋洋地坐在椅子上，胳膊肘靠在椅子的手臂上，半撅着嘴唇，清楚地在说“让我们结束这件事”。

“Tell me, Lucius,” she said, fighting to keep her tone level, “what exactly did you think you were doing there?”
“告诉我，卢修斯，”她说，努力保持语气平静，“你到底觉得你在那儿做什么？

“What was expected of me.” Lucius’ nonchalant shrug did not help Hermione’s efforts to keep a lid on her temper.
“对我的期望。”卢修斯漫不经心的耸耸肩并没有帮助赫敏努力控制自己的脾气。

“Bribery,” she snapped, bringing her hands to her hips as her eyes narrowed. “ Bribery is expected of you?”
“贿赂，”她厉声说，双手放在臀部上，眼睛眯起。“你被要求贿赂吗？”

“By the Wizengamot, yes,” Lucius said, his tone maddeningly matter-of-fact. 
“对了，威森加摩，是的，”卢修斯说，他的语气带着令人发狂的事实。

“But not by Kingsley,” Hermione cried, throwing her hands out. “It’s Kingsley! I honestly can’t believe he didn’t rip up that cheque and throw it back in your face. You could have ruined everything , Lucius. Why would you –”
“但不是金斯莱，”赫敏喊道，伸出双手。“是金斯利！老实说，我不敢相信他没有撕毁那张支票并把它扔回你的脸上。你本来可以毁掉一切的，卢修斯。你为什么——”

“I am not a careless fool, Hermione,” Lucius said sharply, pushing himself up straighter. “Clearly I understood what was happening a damn sight better than you.”
“我不是个粗心大意的傻瓜，赫敏，”卢修斯尖锐地说，把自己撑得更直了。“显然，我比你更了解发生了什么。”

“Kingsley was not asking you for money .”
“金斯利不是要你钱。”

“Don’t be so naive,” he said, his lip curling. “That little ‘probationary’ period he was talking about is not standard. Auror visits? Raids? It was designed specifically to irk me.”
“别这么天真，”他说，嘴唇弯起。“他所说的那个小小的'试用期'并不标准。傲罗来访？袭击？它是专门为激怒我而设计的。

Before Hermione could scoff at him and tell him he was being ridiculous, as she fully intended to do, Lucius said, “Between Potter’s testimony for Narcissa and Draco and my acceptance of my fate, the Ministry got precisely zero galleons from me in the aftermath of the war. That was not what the Wizengamot envisioned. I promise you, when Shacklebolt proposed to the members that I be released as a reward for good behaviour, they told him that he had best get something out of me if he wanted them to agree to it.”
在赫敏嘲笑他并告诉他他很荒谬之前，卢修斯说道，“从波特为纳西莎和德拉科作证到我接受我的命运，魔法部在战后从我那里得到的恰好是零加隆。那不是威森加摩所设想的。我向你保证，当沙克尔博尔特向成员们提议释放我作为对良好行为的奖励时，他们告诉他，如果他想让他们同意的话，他最好从我这里得到一些东西。

“That’s –”
“那是——”

“How it works. At least in this instance. You want me, he wants you, they want funds.”
“它是如何运作的。至少在这种情况下。你想要我，他想要你，他们想要资金。

“I can promise you it’ll be very different if I become Minister,” Hermione fumed, marching towards the desk to begin tidying the cups onto the tray, depositing them with a little more force than necessary. “ Bribes ,” she hissed at the sugar. “Honestly.” 
“我可以向你保证，如果我成为部长，情况会大不相同，”赫敏生气地走向桌子，开始把杯子整理到托盘上，用不必要的力气把它们放进去。“贿赂，”她对着糖嘶嘶作响。“老实说。”

“Then I suppose I should be glad that I’m getting out before your reign of righteousness begins, shouldn’t I?” 
“那么我想我应该庆幸我能在你的正义统治开始之前离开，不是吗？”

Hermione blinked at the teaspoon in her hand and then, looking up at Lucius to find a sly smirk on his face, a helpless, incredulous little laugh spilled over her lips. She was ridiculous. “Oh my God,” she said, lifting a hand to her mouth. “Oh God, Lucius.”
赫敏对着手中的茶匙眨了眨眼，然后，抬头看向卢修斯，发现他脸上露出狡黠的笑容，她的嘴唇上溢出了一丝无助、难以置信的笑声。她太荒谬了。“哦，我的上帝，”她说，一边抬起一只手捂住嘴巴。“哦，上帝啊，卢修斯。”

“Ah, finally, she works her way through her priorities,” Lucius said dryly, opening his arms. “Join me in being pleased, won’t you?”
“啊，终于，她用自己的方式解决了她的优先事项，”卢修斯干巴巴地说，张开双臂。“和我一起高兴吧，不是吗？”

Dropping the teaspoon onto the tray with a clatter, Hermione rounded his desk to throw herself into his lap. A winded ‘ unf’ was knocked out of him as she landed but she sealed her lips over his in a passionate kiss before he could complain. 
赫敏哐当一声把茶匙丢到托盘上，绕过他的桌子，把自己扔到他的腿上。当她落地时，他发出了一声缠绕的“unf”，但在他抱怨之前，她用热情的吻封住了他的嘴唇。

“I’m sorry,” Hermione said through laughter, planting kisses at random on his face and wrapping her arms around his neck. “I’m sorry, of course I’m happy! I’m delighted. I’m ecstatic!”
“对不起，”赫敏笑着说，随意地在他的脸上亲了一下，用手臂搂住了他的脖子。“对不起，我当然很高兴！我很高兴。我欣喜若狂！

Arms locked around her waist, Lucius held her closer and buried his face into her hair and neck, his eyes closing as he breathed her in. “Thank you,” he eventually said, his voice muffled. "Know that I'm aware it wouldn't be happening without you."
卢修斯双臂环抱着她的腰，把她抱得更近，把脸埋进她的头发和脖子里，闭上眼睛给她呼吸。“谢谢你，”他终于说了，他的声音低沉了。“知道我知道没有你，这一切就不会发生。”

Overwhelmed, Hermione could think of no immediate response but to squeeze him tighter.
赫敏不知所措，只想着立即做出回应，只能把他搂得更紧。

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Thank you all. We're nearly there <3
谢谢大家。我们快到了 <3

Chapter 43
章节 43Chapter Notes
章节注释

See the end of the chapter for notes
注释见本章末尾May 23rd 2008
2008 年 5 月 23 日

 

“Granger, you’re going to wear away the bloody stone.”
“格兰杰，你会把血石磨掉的。”

Hermione paused in her pacing of the terrace just long enough to throw a sharp glare at Draco, who was observing her from his seat at a small garden table. Cato bounced alongside her, his playfulness a sharp contrast to her hand-wringing agitation. 
赫敏在露台上踱步时停了下来，刚好足以狠狠地瞪了德拉科一眼，德拉科正坐在一张小花园桌子旁看着她。卡托在她身边蹦蹦跳跳，他的俏皮与她扭动的激动形成了鲜明的对比。

“He’s going to be fine,” Draco tried again, his focus shifting from Hermione to pouring tea for himself and Astoria. There was no point in looking at Hermione, really – she’d been doing the same thing for quite a while. “The Aurors are here to free him, not take him away.”
“他会没事的，”德拉科又试了一次，他的注意力从赫敏转移到了为自己和阿斯托利亚倒茶上。看着赫敏是没有意义的，真的——她已经做同样的事情很长一段时间了。“傲罗们是来解救他的，不是带走他的。”

“They’ve been up there for nearly an hour,” Hermione said, finally stopping so that she could turn her gaze up in the direction of the windows of Lucius’ study. “What could be taking so long?”
“他们已经在上面呆了将近一个小时了，”赫敏说，终于停了下来，这样她就可以把目光转向卢修斯书房的窗户方向。“什么会花这么长时间？”

“Maybe the Magic Dampener has been on so long they have to remove his leg,” Draco suggested dryly, drawing a sharp “Draco!” from Astoria as she wrangled with a fidgeting Scorpius. 
“也许魔法阻尼器已经使用了这么久，他们不得不把他的腿拿掉，”德拉科干巴巴地建议道，在她与坐立不安的斯科皮争吵时，阿斯托利亚发出了尖锐的“德拉科”声。

“Then I’ll make sure they replace it with one of yours,” Hermione responded darkly, making Astoria’s reproachful eyes turn on her.
“那我就确保他们用你的一个来代替它，”赫敏阴沉地回答，让阿斯托利亚责备的眼神转向她。

“You really have no sense of humour where this is concerned,” Draco said, pausing to take a sip of his tea. “It’s quite dull.”
“你真的没有幽默感，”德拉科说，停下来喝了一口茶。“这很沉闷。”

Sighing through her nose, Hermione uncrossed her arms and reached down to show Cato some of the affection he was clearly craving. He nuzzled his head into her thigh as she scratched his ears, finally managing to draw a semblance of a smile from her.
赫敏从鼻子里叹了口气，松开双臂，伸手向卡托展示了他显然渴望的一些爱意。当她挠他的耳朵时，他把头贴在她的大腿上，终于设法从她那里引来了一丝微笑。

“It’s a happy occasion, Hermione,” Astoria said with her own smile, though it was somewhat strained as a result of Scorpius yowling his displeasure at being held when there was so much garden to explore and so much ‘doggy’ in near-touching distance.
“这是一个快乐的场合，赫敏，”阿斯托利亚带着自己的笑容说，尽管由于斯科皮对被抱着而大喊大叫，因为他有这么多花园可以探索，而且有这么多的“小狗”在近乎触碰的距离被抱着，这让她有些紧张。

“Scorpius,” Draco said sternly, stooping to pick up the lion his son had just flung on the ground. “We do not throw . You can explore when you’ve eaten.”
“斯科皮，”德拉科严肃地说，弯腰捡起他儿子刚刚扔在地上的狮子。“我们不扔 .你可以吃过饭后探索。

It was, Hermione privately agreed, a very happy occasion. Of course it was. But it was also momentous and, therefore, accompanied by that peculiar anxiety so specific to change. She and Lucius had, over nearly two years, found stability and comfort in one another. They had established a routine, as unusual as it was. Now, everything would be different. 
赫敏私下里同意，这是一个非常快乐的场合。当然是。但它也是重大的，因此，伴随着那种特有的变化焦虑。在将近两年的时间里，她和 Lucius 在彼此身上找到了稳定和安慰。他们已经建立了一个例行公事，尽管这很不寻常。现在，一切都会有所不同。

Not necessarily bad. Just different. 
不一定是坏事。只是不同。

More so for him than for her. Hermione was, at least in part, worried about how he might adjust because, as pleased as Lucius was to have secured his freedom, as it drew closer Hermione had gotten the impression he was also rather bewildered by the prospect of it.
对他来说比对她来说更重要。赫敏至少在一定程度上担心他会如何调整，因为尽管卢修斯很高兴获得自由，但随着自由的临近，赫敏已经感觉到他也对自由的前景感到困惑。

2 weeks previously  
2 周前

 

"We've been pleasantly secluded here, haven't we?" Lucius said, looking down at the top of Hermione’s head where it lay on his chest. He trailed his fingers mindlessly through her curls, carefully combing through any knots and letting them slide off her bare shoulder. 
“我们在这里过得很愉快，不是吗？”卢修斯说，低头看着赫敏的头顶，它躺在他胸前的地方。他用手指漫不经心地滑过她的卷发，小心翼翼地梳理着任何打结，让它们从她裸露的肩膀上滑落。

"S'pose so," she mumbled, stroking a gentle line along his abdomen with the very tip of her finger, enjoying the way his skin quivered in its wake. She only stopped when she reached the white barrier of the bed sheet, before returning to the start of her path to do it again, just a few centimetres further to the right.
“所以，”她喃喃自语，用指尖轻轻抚摸着他的腹部，享受着他的皮肤在颤抖中的样子。她只是在到达床单的白色屏障时停了下来，然后又回到了她的起点，再次这样做，就在右边几厘米处。

"We’ll have to face the world soon.” His fingers stopped working through her hair and his palm settled on her shoulder, hand curving around it.
“我们很快就得面对这个世界了。”他的手指停止了抚摸她的头发，他的手掌放在她的肩膀上，手在肩膀上弯曲。

“You sound worried," she said, not explicitly asking the question but inviting him to elaborate.
“你听起来很担心，”她说，没有明确提出这个问题，但请他详细说明。

His pause was long. So long, that Hermione tried to angle her head up to look at him but he lifted his hand to the side of her head and pressed down to keep her in place, enjoying the weight of her on him. 
他的停顿很长。太久了，赫敏试图抬起头看他，但他把手抬到她的头侧，向下压，让她保持在原地，享受着她在他身上的重量。

“I haven’t been outside the walls of this manor in ten years.” Lucius took a deep breath that made Hermione’s head rise with the swell of his chest. “I haven’t really been free since I went to Azkaban in 1996. Quite a lot has changed.”
“我已经十年没有走出这座庄园的围墙了。”卢修斯深吸了一口气，这让赫敏的头随着胸口的膨胀而抬起。“自从我 1996 年去了阿兹卡班以来，我就没有真正自由过。很多事情都发生了变化。

Hermione’s fingers stilled on his abdomen, curling in on themselves one by one to form a loose fist. It was a long time and a lot had changed. But so had he.
赫敏的手指停在他的腹部上，一根一根地蜷缩成一个松散的拳头。那是很长一段时间，很多事情都发生了变化。但他也是。

“It’ll take some adjustment,” she said softly, her breath brushing ticklishly across him and drawing a small shiver out of him. “But you weren’t made to be confined, Lucius.” A small laugh shook her and, curious to see what might have amused her, he allowed her to arch her neck so she could peer up at him. “Aside from anything else, I think you love to be looked at.”
“这需要一些调整，”她轻声说，她的呼吸拂过他，使他微微颤抖。“但你不是用来被囚禁的，卢修斯。”一阵小小的笑声使她颤抖，他好奇地想看看什么会让她感到好笑，他让她弓起脖子，这样她就可以抬头凝视他。“除了其他任何事情，我觉得你喜欢被人看着。”

He smiled instinctively at her jest but it was more thoughtful than amused. “Maybe once,” he said. “I don’t think I’ll like it as much now, somehow.” Picking up a strand of her hair, he curled it around one of his fingers and lowered his eyes to hers. “I like the way you look at me.”
他对她的玩笑本能地笑了笑，但与其说是逗乐，不如说是深思熟虑。“也许一次，”他说。“不知何故，我觉得我现在不会那么喜欢它了。”他捡起她的一缕头发，卷曲在一根手指上，然后低头看着她。“我喜欢你看着我的样子。”

“That won’t change.”
“这不会改变。”

“Good,” he said firmly, tugging her hair in a way that said ‘better not’. “Though I think it’s spoiled me.” He frowned, almost pouting. “At the very least, it’s made me terribly disinclined to subject myself to the inevitable disdain and loathing of everyone else.”
“很好，”他坚定地说，以一种“最好不要”的方式扯着她的头发。“虽然我觉得这让我很宠坏。”他皱起眉头，几乎要撅起嘴。“至少，这让我非常不愿意让自己受到其他人不可避免的蔑视和厌恶。”

“Your freedom will give you the opportunity to change how people view you,” Hermione said encouragingly. “If that matters to you.”
“你的自由会让你有机会改变人们如何看待你，”赫敏鼓励地说。“如果这对你来说重要的话。”

It wasn’t so long ago that Lucius had told her people would talk about them and think whatever they wanted of them, regardless of the truth of the matter. He’d said it as though it was a simple fact of life that didn’t bother him but Hermione knew he liked to be admired; certainly, he detested the idea of being looked down on by people he thought unfit to do so. His decision to burn every single letter he'd received in the aftermath of the publication of Sonorus – without opening them – spoke to that. 
就在不久前，卢修斯告诉她，人们会谈论他们，想怎么想就怎么想，不管事情的真相如何。他说这话时，好像这是一个简单的生活事实，并不困扰他，但赫敏知道他喜欢被钦佩;当然，他讨厌被他认为不适合这样做的人看不起的想法。他决定烧掉他在 Sonorus 出版后收到的每一封信——不打开它们——说明了这一点。

“Or you could just disdain and loathe them right back,” she suggested.
“或者你可以直接鄙视和厌恶他们，”她建议道。

Lucius made a noncommittal noise and Hermione pushed herself up, sliding up his body to bring her face closer to his. “What was it you said to me recently?” she asked, eyebrows raised. “Do whatever you bloody want – you can’? Was that it?”
卢修斯发出了不置可否的声音，赫敏把自己撑了起来，滑上他的身体，让她的脸更靠近他的脸。“你最近对我说了什么？” 她扬起眉毛问道。“你想做什么就做什么——你能吗？”就这样吗？

“It was .” His eyes drifted to hers to give her a sidelong, knowing look.
“是。”他的目光飘向她，向她投来一个会心的眼神。

“Why shouldn’t that apply to you now? If you want to be looked at with admiration and respect, do admirable, respectable things.”
“为什么现在这不适用于你呢？如果你想被人以钦佩和尊重的眼光看待，就做令人钦佩、值得尊敬的事情。

“Like?” he asked, drawing the word out in an almost bored way.
“比如？” 他问道，以一种近乎无聊的方式把这个词抽出来。

“Set up an institution,” she said, partially mocking his past advice with her tone but hoping he’d register her underlying seriousness. “A charity. Open a shop that sells one type of lemon cake and literally nothing else.”
“成立一个机构，”她说，用她的语气部分地嘲笑了他过去的建议，但希望他能注意到她潜在的严肃性。“一个慈善机构。开一家只卖一种柠檬蛋糕的商店，几乎不卖其他任何东西。

“Oh, you are amusing.” Despite his sarcasm, Lucius slid his hand from her shoulder to her waist and tugged her closer, prompting her to sling one of her legs over so it rested between his. 
“哦，你真有趣。”尽管他讽刺了一下，卢修斯还是把手从她的肩膀滑到她的腰上，把她拉得更近了，促使她把她的一条腿甩过来，让它停在他的腿之间。

“Think about it,” she urged him, resting her palm flat on his chest and leaning her chin atop the back of her hand. “You’re an intelligent, resourceful and, as you so often like to point out, wealthy man. You could do a lot of good.”
“想想看，”她催促他，将手掌平放在他的胸前，将下巴靠在手背上。“你很聪明，足智多谋，而且，正如你经常喜欢指出的那样，你是一个有钱人。你可以做很多好事。

“And what if I decide to simply stay here?” he asked with a mirthless smile, eyes darting down to hers. “Hide myself away? Would you still come to me as you have done?”
“如果我决定就这样留在这里呢？”他带着无情的笑容问道，眼睛盯着她。“把自己藏起来？你还会像以前那样来找我吗？

“Of course I would,” Hermione assured him without hesitation. “I love you. But is that what you’d want , Lucius? For the rest of your days?
“我当然会，”赫敏毫不犹豫地向他保证。“我爱你。但这就是你想要的吗，卢修斯？在你的余生中？

His smile faded by degrees to be replaced by a frown faintly pulling between his brows. “I hardly know.”
他的笑容逐渐消失，取而代之的是眉头间微微拉扯的眉头。“我几乎不知道。”

“You want your magic,” Hermione reminded him. She knew that – he’d once told her he struggled to feel whole without it, so how could he not?
“你想要你的魔法，”赫敏提醒他。她知道——他曾经告诉她，没有它，他很难感到完整，所以他怎么能不呢？

“Of course,” was his confident reply.
“当然，”他自信地回答。

“Alright.” Lifting her chin and curling her hand, she planted a delicate kiss on his chest where her fingers had lain. “Well, then, let’s get that and just… go from there.” 
“好吧。”她抬起下巴，卷起手，在他的胸口上轻轻地吻了一下，她的手指曾躺在那里。“好吧，那么，让我们得到那个，然后......从那里开始。

He didn’t say anything, simply giving her a long look and a slow nod. Then, reaching beneath the loose sheet covering them both, he gripped the thigh slung across him and, using the arm wrapped around her waist, pulled her further onto him. Understanding, Hermione stretched her neck up to kiss him, grinding her hips into his with a breathy whimper. 
他什么也没说，只是长长地看了她一眼，缓缓地点了点头。然后，他把手伸到盖在他们俩身上的松散床单下面，抓住挂在他身上的大腿，用缠在她腰上的手臂，把她进一步拉到他身上。赫敏明白了，伸长脖子亲吻他，用喘息的呜咽声将臀部磨进他的臀部。

Conversation was over.  
谈话结束了。

"There she goes again " Draco muttered as Hermione's thoughts led her back to pacing, just on a different axis. "How is anyone supposed to enjoy a nice cup of tea in this atmosphere?"
“她又去了，”德拉科喃喃自语，赫敏的思绪引导她回到了踱步上，只是在不同的轴线上。在这种气氛中，怎么能享受一杯好茶呢？

“You’ll wear through the stone, Hermione.”
“你会穿穿石头的，赫敏。”

At the sound of Lucius’ voice, Hermione stuttered to a halt in mid-step, her head snapping to the entrance to the dining room where he stood in the doorway. He looked fine. In fact, he looked well. If anything, she thought, her eyes searching him quickly, he looked like he was standing taller. Turning on her heel, Hermione rushed towards him and threw her arms around his neck.
听到卢修斯的声音，赫敏结结巴巴地停在了半步，她的头猛地撞向了他站在门口的餐厅入口。他看起来还不错。事实上，他看起来不错。如果有什么不同的话，她想，她的眼睛迅速地寻找着他，他看起来站得更高了。赫敏转过身来，冲向他，用双臂搂住他的脖子。

“You see the reaction he gets when he says pretty much the exact same thing I did?” Draco muttered into his tea cup. “Ridiculous.”
“你看到他说和我说的一模一样的话时的反应了吗？”德拉科对着他的茶杯咕哝着。“荒谬。”

“But he says it because he cares , dear,” Astoria said, finally letting Scorpius slide from her lap and onto the stone terrace with a puff of tired relief. “Not because he’s trying to be snide.” 
“但他这么说是因为他关心，亲爱的，”阿斯托利亚说，终于让斯科皮从她的腿上滑下来，滑到石头露台上，一阵疲惫的解脱。“不是因为他想被冷嘲热讽。”

“What took so long?” Hermione asked quietly, smoothing down Lucius’ shirt and waistcoat where she’d rumpled them with her hug. “I was worried.”
“什么花了这么长时间？”赫敏轻声问道，抚平了卢修斯的衬衫和背心，她用拥抱把它们弄皱了。“我很担心。”

“Paperwork,” he said, looking tired but otherwise content as he took her hands in his to still them. “And I rather suspect the Aurors drew the entire thing out in an attempt to rile me.” In response to an inquiring raise of Hermione’s eyebrows, he wryly added, “ I was a delight.”
“文书工作，”他说，看起来疲惫不堪，但当他握住她的手让它们静止时，他很满足。“而且我宁愿怀疑傲罗们把整个东西都画出来，试图激怒我。”赫敏挑起眉毛询问，他讽刺地补充道，“我很高兴。

Hermione closed her fingers around his and stepped backwards through the doorway to tug him out into the late spring sunshine. He blinked rapidly against the brightness, having been stuck in the manor all morning. “How do you feel? Was it alright?”
赫敏用手指搂住他，向后退着走进门口，把他拉到春末的阳光下。他在阳光下快速眨了眨眼，因为他整个上午都被困在庄园里。“你感觉如何？还好吗？

“It was rather anticlimactic,” he said, with an almost bemused air. Hermione watched him lift his foot from the ground, turning his ankle where the Magic Dampener had once sat, like he couldn’t quite believe it was gone. 
“这真是太不合时宜了，”他说，语气几乎是困惑的。赫敏看着他把脚从地上抬起来，把脚踝扭到魔法阻尼器曾经坐过的地方，就像他不太相信它已经消失了一样。

“Have you thought about what you’d like to do, father?” Draco called from his seat by the table, his attention partially on Scorpius, who was clinging with one hand to the leg of his trousers.
“爸爸，你有没有想过你想做什么？”德拉科从桌边的座位上喊道，他的注意力一部分集中在斯科皮身上，他一只手紧紧抓住他的裤腿。

“You need a wand,” Astoria suggested brightly when Lucius didn’t seem inclined to respond.
“你需要一根魔杖，”阿斯托利亚在卢修斯似乎不愿意回答时爽朗地建议道。

Lucius nodded his agreement and said, “I do” but didn’t otherwise move. Eyes combing his profile, Hermione said, “I feel I should point out that you and I have been together for nearly two years and you’ve never taken me out.”
卢修斯点头表示同意，说：“我愿意”，但没有动。赫敏的眼睛梳理着他的个人资料，说，“我觉得我应该指出，你和我已经在一起快两年了，你从来没有带我出去过。

His eyes snapped to hers and she thought she saw a flicker of mischief in them that made her let out a quiet breath of relief – he was fine. Would be fine. “Ice cream?” he asked. “I know you’ve enjoyed that before.”
他的眼睛猛地盯着她，她觉得她看到了他们身上一丝恶作剧，这让她轻声松了一口气——他没事。会没事的。“冰淇淋？”“我知道你以前很喜欢。”

“Oh, fuck off,” said Hermione, her wide grin taking the sting out of her rebuke. The last time she’d been on a date in that ice cream parlour, she’d been stabbing her spoon into the cardboard cup, pretending the pale lavender ice cream was Lucius’ face. 
“哦，滚蛋，”赫敏说，她灿烂的笑容消除了她斥责的刺痛。上次她在那个冰淇淋店约会时，她一直把勺子捅进纸板杯里，假装淡淡的薰衣草冰淇淋是卢修斯的脸。

From Draco’s side, Scorpius waved his toy lion aloft, roaring to get their attention. Cato trotted over and sniffed curiously at the toy, which Scorpius drew protectively into his chest. An offended look—all too reminiscent of Lucius and Draco—passed over his face as he spied the moisture left by Cato’s nose.  
在德拉科的身边，斯科皮高高地挥舞着他的玩具狮子，咆哮着引起他们的注意。卡托小跑过来，好奇地嗅了嗅那个玩具，斯科皮保护性地把玩具拉进了他的胸口。当他窥探到Cato鼻子留下的湿气时，一种被冒犯的眼神——太让人想起了Lucius和Draco——在他的脸上掠过。

“Look at that,” Hermione said, sliding her hand into Lucius’ and squeezing. “Scorpius is telling you to be brave! Isn’t that sweet?”
“看看那个，”赫敏说，把手滑进卢修斯的手里，捏了捏。“斯科皮告诉你要勇敢！ 那不是很甜吗？

“I hate you,” Lucius growled, though without dropping her hand. 
“我恨你，”卢修斯咆哮着，尽管她的手并没有放下。

Draco rolled his eyes. “Nobody believes that anymore,” he said, lifting his tea to his lips to blow away the steam. “Come on, what are you going to do?”
德拉科翻了个白眼。“没有人再相信了，”他说，把茶举到嘴边，把蒸汽吹走。“来吧，你打算做什么？”

Lucius’ eyes darted between Hermione at his side and his family before him. “A wand,” he finally said firmly, turning his head to Hermione. “If you’ll join me?”
卢修斯的眼睛在他身边的赫敏和他面前的家人之间来回扫视。“一根魔杖，”他终于坚定地说，把头转向赫敏。“你愿意和我一起吗？”

“Of course I will.” Hermione smiled and turned towards the manor, filled with purpose as she pulled him back inside. 
“我当然会。”赫敏微笑着转向庄园，满怀目标地把他拉回了屋里。

They’d go now. Rip off the bandage. Only a few days before she’d struggled to imagine walking hand-in-hand with Lucius through Diagon Alley, subject to the watchful stares of all the witches and wizards that would be shopping and seeking out gossip. It had seemed a slightly unreal image. But she would do it and, actually, now the thought of it elicited a small thrill that made her walk faster.
他们现在就走。撕掉绷带。就在几天前，她还在努力想象与卢修斯手牵手走过对角巷，受到所有正在购物和寻找八卦的女巫和巫师的注视。这似乎是一个有点不真实的画面。但她会这样做的，实际上，现在一想到它就引起了一种小小的兴奋，使她走得更快。

“That’ll be a no to tea, then?” came Draco’s drawl from behind them.
“那不喝茶吧吧？”

“We’ll have tea when we’re out,” Hermione called happily, catching Lucius’ eye over her shoulder and grinning. “We can.”
“我们出去的时候喝茶，”赫敏高兴地喊道，对上卢修斯的眼睛，她咧嘴一笑。“我们可以。”

"No one could accuse you of wasting time,” Lucius said, his voice low as he allowed her to drag him out of the dining room and into the hallway. “We’re going right now?”
“没人能指责你浪费时间，”卢修斯说，他压低了声音，让她把他拖出餐厅，走进走廊。“我们现在就去？”

“Maybe I want to show you off.”
“也许我想炫耀你。”

Hermione didn’t see his face as he pulled his hand from hers to come to a stop in the hall outside the dining room but, when she turned, she found his lips thin and his posture tense. ‘Don’t mock me,’ it said, as though she ever would at such a time. 
赫敏没有看到他的脸，他把手从她的手上抽出来，停在餐厅外面的大厅里，但当她转过身来时，她发现他的嘴唇很薄，姿势很紧张。“别嘲笑我，”它说，仿佛她在这种时候会这样。

They eyed one another in the narrow hallway, Lucius in the open doorway, Hermione across from him near the wall. Lips pursed thoughtfully, Hermione reached around to her back pocket and slid her wand out of her jeans. As she brought it round to her front, Lucius’ eyes darted down to it and stopped, seemingly arrested by the sight of it. Taking a couple of steps forward, Hermione turned the wand so that its handle was directed to Lucius, while its end pointed straight at her middle. 
他们在狭窄的走廊里互相看着，卢修斯在敞开的门口，赫敏在他对面的墙壁附近。赫敏若有所思地抿起嘴唇，把手伸到她的后兜里，把魔杖从牛仔裤里滑了出来。当她把它带到面前时，卢修斯的眼睛瞪着它，然后停了下来，似乎被它的景象吓住了。赫敏向前走了几步，转动魔杖，使魔杖的手柄对准卢修斯，而魔杖的末端则直接指向她的中间。

“Here,” she said, her voice little more than a whisper. “Why don’t you hold it?”
“在这里，”她说，她的声音只不过是耳语。“你为什么不拿着它？”

Lucius’ eyes remained fixed on her wand, his body completely still apart from the fingers of his right hand which twitched reflexively. He hadn’t held a wand since that day in the greenhouse. He had once tried to explain how it had felt to her. ‘Exquisitely painful’ he had said. Unbearable and thrilling.
卢修斯的眼睛一直盯着她的魔杖，他的身体完全静止不动，除了他反射性地抽搐的右手手指。自从那天在温室里以来，他就再也没有拿过魔杖。他曾经试图解释她当时的感受。“非常痛苦，”他说。难以忍受和惊心动魄。

When he didn’t reach out, the memory of the pain perhaps making him hesitate, Hermione lifted it a little higher, encouraging him. “We share a core, don’t we? she asked, her voice encouraging. “It won’t be exactly like holding a wand just for you but it might be nice to have this moment privately. In case it’s…overwhelming.”
当他没有伸出手时，痛苦的记忆或许让他犹豫不决，赫敏把它抬高了一点，鼓励他。“我们有一个共同的核心，不是吗？她问道，她的声音带着鼓励。“这不会完全像只为你拿着一根魔杖，但私下里拥有这一刻可能会很好。万一是......压倒性的。

Eyes travelling up her arm to her face, Lucius slowly nodded and, in the next moment, he closed his fingers around the handle of her wand. Hermione drew her own hand away just as Lucius’ eyes fell closed and a choked gasp escaped him. His hand tightened around the carved wood, trembling as his magic responded to the contact. 
眼睛顺着她的手臂滑向她的脸，卢修斯缓缓地点了点头，下一刻，他用手指握住了她的魔杖手柄。赫敏把自己的手抽开了，这时卢修斯闭上了眼睛，哽咽的喘息声从他身上逸出。他的手紧紧地握住了雕刻的木头，随着他的魔法对接触的反应而颤抖。

Watching him made her heart swell, recalling the warm rush and the sense of connection and rightness when she’d finally held a wand that accepted her. It had been like her magic had found its gateway into the world.
看着他让她的心膨胀，回想起当她终于握住一根接受她的魔杖时的温暖冲动以及联系和正确的感觉。就好像她的魔法找到了通往世界的门户。

Lucius took in a deep, sharp breath and Hermione took a half-step forward, her hands coming up in case he needed support. “Is it – are you – is it okay?”
卢修斯深吸了一口气，赫敏向前走了半步，她的手举起来，以防他需要支持。“是吗——你是——还好吗？”

“It feels…” His exhale was low, shuddering, as his eyes fluttered open to observe the wand in his hand with wonder. His throat bobbed as he swallowed hard and his eyes flicked up to her concerned face. “I think I feel you,” he said hoarsely. “Your magic.”
“感觉......”他低沉地呼出一口气，颤抖着，双眼颤抖着睁开，惊奇地观察着他手中的魔杖。他的喉咙在他用力吞咽时晃动着，他的眼睛眨向她关切的脸。“我想我能感觉到你，”他嘶哑地说。“你的魔法。”

“What does it –” Hermione reached up and tucked a curl behind her ear, suddenly self-conscious. “What do I feel like?”
“什么——”赫敏伸手把一缕卷发塞到耳后，突然变得不自在。“我感觉如何？”

Rather than answer her, Lucius lowered the hand holding her wand and closed the space between them in two steps. Hermione’s back met the wall of the hallway with a faint thump  and he stopped, his body just brushing against hers. 
卢修斯没有回答她，而是放下了握着魔杖的手，分两步拉近了他们之间的距离。赫敏的背撞在走廊的墙壁上，发出微弱的砰砰声，他停了下来，他的身体只是擦过她的身体。

Hermione craned her neck, her gaze travelling from the collar of his shirt, up his neck, to his eyes where she found a hunger that made it hard for her to look away. Ever so slowly, his eyes intent on hers, Lucius brought a hand up to cup her face, tilting her chin up further. So distracted was she by this, Hermione flinched, surprised, when, down by her side, she felt Lucius' other hand meet hers. 
赫敏伸长了脖子，她的目光从他的衬衫领子上移开，顺着他的脖子，一直到他的眼睛，她发现一种饥饿让她很难把视线移开。卢修斯慢慢地看着她的眼睛，伸出一只手捧住她的脸，进一步抬起她的下巴。赫敏被这件事分散了注意力，她畏缩了一下，感到惊讶，这时，她感觉到卢修斯的另一只手碰到了她的手。

Encouraging her to open her fingers, he pressed the carved wood of her wand – almost as warm as his skin – against her palm. Pushing her knuckles and wrist against the wall, he linked their fingers together so that the wand was sandwiched between them.
他鼓励她张开手指，将她魔杖的雕刻木头——几乎和他的皮肤一样温暖——压在她的手掌上。他把她的指关节和手腕靠在墙上，把他们的手指连在一起，这样魔杖就夹在他们之间。

Quite suddenly, she thought she could feel it. His magic. Friendly and familiar yet somehow also strange, channeling through her wand to just graze around the edges of her own magic. She wanted more of it. 
突然间，她觉得自己能感觉到。他的魔法。友好而熟悉，但不知何故也奇怪，通过她的魔杖引导，只是在她自己的魔法边缘掠过。她想要更多。

Sliding the fingers of her free hand between the buttons of his waistcoat, Hermione pulled Lucius down, bringing their lips together in a passionate kiss. His hips pressed forward against hers and she drew in a sharp gasp as her wand thrummed gently.
赫敏用她空出来的手的手指在他背心的纽扣之间滑动，把卢修斯拉下来，把他们的嘴唇靠在一起，热情地吻了起来。他的臀部向前压在她的臀部上，她的魔杖轻轻地嗡嗡作响，她发出尖锐的喘息。

“While we’re at Diagon Alley,” she whispered urgently, her breath feathering over his face, “why don’t we take a trip to Gringotts?” 
“趁我们在对角巷的时候，”她急切地低声说，她的呼吸在他的脸上飞快，“我们为什么不去古灵阁一趟呢？

Keeping her against the wall, Lucius pulled his head back slightly, frowning down at her. 
卢修斯把她靠在墙上，把头微微向后仰，皱着眉头看着她。

“I seem to remember you wanted to show me some of the Malfoy family jewels,” she explained with a meaningful tilt of her head. Dawning realisation smoothed Lucius’ brow and a smirk quirked at the corner of his mouth. “The rubies in particular.”
“我好像记得你想给我看一些马尔福家族的珠宝，”她意味深长地歪着头解释道。恍然大悟使卢修斯的眉头变得柔和，他的嘴角弯起一丝得意的笑容。“尤其是红宝石。”

“I did,” he murmured, dipping his head to kiss just under her ear, nipping at it with his teeth in a way that made her squirm.
“我记得，”他喃喃自语，低下头亲吻她的耳下，用牙齿咬着它，让她蠕动起来。

“And you mentioned something about using a string of pearls in a variety of ways,” she said, her grip on his waistcoat tightening to the degree that she was sure she was at risk of ripping a button. “I’m sure you could make Dumbeldore’s findings around the twelve uses of Dragon’s Blood look like nothing.”
“你还提到了以各种方式使用一串珍珠的事情，”她说，她抓着他的背心的手越来越紧，以至于她确信自己有扯掉纽扣的风险。“我敢肯定，你可以让邓贝尔多关于龙血的十二种用途的发现看起来毫无意义。”

“Flattery, Hermione,” Lucius murmured into her neck, an almost disapproving edge to his words. “Really?”
“奉承，赫敏，”卢修斯对着她的脖子喃喃自语，他的话几乎带着不赞成的语气。“真的吗？”

“I’d say I’m more…” She tilted her neck for him, exposing her rapidly pulsing jugular to his searching lips. “Issuing a challenge. You like those.”
“我想说我更......”她向他倾斜脖子，将她快速跳动的颈静脉暴露在他寻找的嘴唇上。“发出挑战。你喜欢这些。

At that Lucius straightened up, looking down at her with an eyebrow just slightly raised. Pushing her wand more firmly against her palm, he withdrew his own hand, forcing Hermione to close her fingers completely around the wood to stop it falling. 
听到这话，卢修斯直起身来，微微扬起眉毛看着她。他把魔杖更用力地推向她的手掌，收回了自己的手，迫使赫敏用手指完全合拢木头，以防止它掉下来。

“Don’t think I don’t know what you’re doing,” he said.
“别以为我不知道你在干什么，”他说。

“What would that be?” she asked, her flushed cheeks and breathlessness somewhat ruining her attempt at innocence.
“那会是什么？” 她问道，她通红的脸颊和喘不过气来在某种程度上破坏了她对纯真的尝试。

“Trying to manipulate me,” he said, his face leaning towards hers again. “Into leaving the manor.” Slightly narrowed, his eyes flicked between hers, searching. “I’m letting you do it.” 
“试图操纵我，”他说，他的脸再次向她的脸倾斜。“离开庄园。”他微微眯起眼睛，在她的眼睛之间扫视，寻找着。“我让你来做。”

“It’s not like that,” Hermione said earnestly, shaking her head. “I’ll never make you do something if you really don’t want to do it, Lucius. I promise.”
“不是那样的，”赫敏认真地说，摇了摇头。“如果你真的不想做某事，我永远不会让你做某事，卢修斯。我保证。

A half-smile playing about his lips, Lucius tucked a curl that had come loose back behind her ear, the backs of fingers caressing her cheek. As he did so, he caught sight of the scar of his Dark Mark peeking out from beneath his rolled shirt sleeve and his smile faltered.
卢修斯的嘴唇上浮现出半笑半笑，将一头松散的卷发塞到耳后，指背抚摸着她的脸颊。当他这样做时，他看到他的黑暗标记的疤痕从他卷起的衬衫袖子下面探出头来，他的笑容变得蹒跚。

"What's wrong?" she asked, her eyes following his.
“怎么了？” 她问道，她的眼睛跟着他。

“I’m not sure I believe in fresh starts or new beginnings, Hermione,” he murmured, eyes fixed on his Dark Mark. “And I’m not sure that even those who do believe in them really see them as something for others.” 
“我不确定我是否相信新的开始或新的开始，赫敏，”他喃喃自语，眼睛盯着他的黑暗标记。“我不确定即使是那些相信它们的人是否真的将它们视为他人的东西。”

Brow furrowing, Hermione tugged at his waistcoat in an attempt to convince him to look at her again. “Lucius...look, this isn’t really about starting or beginning or cleaning slates. It’s just…” She shrugged helplessly. “The next part.” 
赫敏皱着眉头，拉扯着他的背心，试图说服他再看她一眼。“卢修斯......看，这并不是真的关于开始、开始或清理石板。只是......”她无奈地耸了耸肩。“下一部分。”

Relinquishing his waistcoat, Hermione wrapped her hand around Lucius’ forearm so that the tips of her fingers overlapped the faded outline of the skull that had once been so stark against his skin. “I mean, you took this mark but you’re not really the same as you were then, are you?”
赫敏放下背心，用手搂住卢修斯的前臂，让她的指尖与曾经在他的皮肤上如此鲜明的头骨褪色的轮廓重叠。“我的意思是，你拿了这个标记，但你和当时的你真的不一样了，对吧？”

He frowned, seemingly entranced by her touch. “I suppose not, no.” Hermione held back a scoff — as far as she was concerned, that was an understatement.
他皱起眉头，似乎被她的触碰迷住了。“我想没有，没有。”赫敏忍住了嘲笑——就她而言，那只是轻描淡写。

“I don’t think you should forget who you were but it’d be foolish to let him hold you back or dictate who you will be.” Turning her cheek into his palm, she pressed a kiss onto it. “That’s up to you right now.”
“我认为你不应该忘记你是谁，但让他拖你后腿或决定你将成为什么样的人是愚蠢的。”她把脸颊贴在他的手掌上，在上面亲了一下。“现在就看你了。”

Finally tearing his gaze from her hold on his arm, Lucius looked into her face. His expression was unreadable but his eyes flicked over every line, curve and freckle, inspecting, searching. 
终于，卢修斯将目光从她抓住他的手臂上移开，看着她的脸。他的表情难以捉摸，但他的眼睛扫视着每一行、曲线和雀斑，检查着，搜索着。

Then, quite suddenly, Lucius stepped back, tugging his arm out of Hermione’s grasp. Before she could protest, he extended his hand out across the gap he’d made between them, his palm open in an invitation. “Let’s go, then.”
然后，突然间，卢修斯向后退了一步，把他的手臂从赫敏的手中拽了出来。在她能够抗议之前，他伸出手划过他之间的缝隙，张开手掌发出邀请。“那么，我们走吧。”

 

"Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
“其中，过去的就是序幕，即将发生的事情
In yours and my discharge."
在你的和我的出院里。

The Tempest, Act II Scene I
暴风雨，第二幕 第一场

Chapter End Notes
章节结束注释

Thanks for reading this fic to the end <3 I can't believe it's received such a positive response, especially since it's pretty much just a couple of hundred thousand words of me finding ways to push two idiots together. Lumione readers are lovely and so so encouraging and I can't thank you all enough for making writing this fic so much fun. 
感谢你把这个小说读到最后 <3 我简直不敢相信它收到了如此积极的回应，尤其是因为它几乎只是我找到将两个白痴推到一起的方法的几十万字。Lumione 的读者很可爱，非常鼓舞人心，我非常感谢你们让写这个小说变得如此有趣。

I have something tumbling around in my mind for a future fic and although I won't make any promises, I'd love to think I'll be back in 2023. In the meantime, I'm finally going to go back to reading and enjoying some other fics for a while!
我脑海中有一些关于未来 fic 的事情，虽然我不会做出任何承诺，但我很想想象我会在 2023 年回来。与此同时，我终于要回去阅读和享受一段时间的其他小说了！

Afterword
后记End Notes
尾注

Thank you for reading! x
感谢您的阅读！x

Works inspired by this one
受此启发的作品[Restricted Work] by Ghost_Panini
Ghost_Panini 的 [限制工作]Please drop by the Archive and comment to let the creator know if you enjoyed their work!
请前往 Archive 并发表评论，让创作者知道您是否喜欢他们的作品！

